108 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration o.
Employee benefits continued received or receivable for the sale of goods and Obligations for contributions to defined contribution services net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts, and pension plans are recognised as an operating expense after eliminating sales within the Group.
in the income statement as incurred.
Revenue from the sale of books is recognised when 2.
Other post-retirement obligations The expected costs title passes.
A provision for anticipated returns is made of post-retirement healthcare and life assurance based primarily on historical return rates.
If these benefits are accrued over the period of employment, estimates do not reflect actual returns in future periods using a similar accounting methodology as for defined then revenues could be understated or overstated for benefit pension obligations.
The liabilities and costs a particular period.
relating to significant other post-retirement obligations are assessed annually by independent qualified actuaries.
Circulation and advertising revenue is recognised when the newspaper or other publication is published.
Share-based payments The fair value of options or Subscription revenue is recognised on a straight-line shares granted under the Groups share and option basis over the life of the subscription.
plans is recognised as an employee expense after taking into account the Groups best estimate of the number Where a contractual arrangement consists of two of awards expected to vest.
Fair value is measured at or more separate elements that can be provided the date of grant and is spread over the vesting period to customers either on a stand-alone basis or as an of the option or share.
The fair value of the options optional extra, such as the provision of supplementary granted is measured using an option model that is most materials with textbooks, revenue is recognised for appropriate to the award.
The fair value of shares each element as if it were an individual contractual awarded is measured using the share price at the date arrangement.
of grant unless another method is more appropriate.
Revenue from multi-year contractual arrangements, Any proceeds received are credited to share capital such as contracts to process qualifying tests for and share premium when the options are exercised.
individual professions and government departments, p. Provisions is recognised as performance occurs.
The assumptions, Provisions are recognised if the Group has a present risks, and uncertainties inherent in long-term contract legal or constructive obligation as a result of past accounting can affect the amounts and timing of events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of revenue and related expenses reported.
Certain of resources will be required to settle the obligation these arrangements, either as a result of a single service and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions spanning more than one reporting period or where the are discounted to present value where the effect contract requires the provision of a number of services is material.
that together constitute a single project, are treated as long-term contracts with revenue recognised on a The Group recognises a provision for deferred percentage of completion basis.
Losses on contracts consideration at fair value.
are recognised in the period in which the loss first The Group recognises a provision for onerous lease becomes foreseeable.
Contract losses are determined contracts when the expected benefits to be derived to be the amount by which estimated total costs of the from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs contract exceed the estimated total revenues that will of meeting the obligations under the contract.
be generated by the contract.
The provision is based on the present value of future On certain contracts, where the Group acts as agent, payments for surplus leased properties under nononly commissions and fees receivable for services cancellable operating leases, net of estimated subrendered are recognised as revenue.
costs incurred on behalf of the principal that are rechargeable under the contractual arrangement are not included in revenue.
