60 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Board governance continued During 2012, the significant non-audit work performed The directors are responsible for keeping adequate by PwC was: accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with Tax compliance services related to a routine audit by reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position the US Internal Revenue Service: of the company and the Group.
This enables them to Tax advisory services associated with the planned ensure that the financial statements and the report on creation of the venture between Penguin and directors remuneration comply with the Act and, as Random House: regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Assurance services on a corporate bond issued in IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for May 2012: and safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group Other assurance services which were individually less and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and than 100,000 per project.
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In each case, PwC was selected as they were best able The directors are responsible for the maintenance and to provide the services we required at a reasonable fee integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the and within the terms of our external auditors policy.
UK governing the preparation and dissemination To assist in ensuring that independence and objectivity of financial statements may differ from legislation is maintained, for forward-looking tax planning and due in other jurisdictions.
diligence work PwC assign a different partner from the Each of the directors, whose names and functions are one leading the external audit.
listed on pages 44 to 46, confirm that to the best of A full statement of the fees for audit and services is their knowledge and belief: provided in note 4 to the accounts on page 114.
The Group financial statements, prepared in Statement of directors responsibilities accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, The directors are responsible for preparing the annual financial position and profit of the group and company: report, the report on directors remuneration and the and financial statements in accordance with applicable law The directors report contained in the annual report and regulations.
includes a fair review of the development and The Act requires the directors to prepare financial performance of the business and the position of the statements for each financial year.
The directors have company and Group, together with a description of the prepared the Group and parent company financial principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
statements in accordance with International Financial The directors also confirm that, for all directors Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the in office at the date of this report: European Union.
Under the Act the directors must a so far as the directors are aware, there is no not approve the financial statements unless they are relevant audit information of which the companys satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state auditors are unaware: and of affairs of the company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
b they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware In preparing these financial statements, the directors of any relevant audit information and to establish that are required to: the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply Approved by the board on 7 March 2013 and signed them consistently: on its behalf by Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union or disclose and explain any material departures from those IFRSs: and Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Philip Hoffman Secretary company and or the group will continue in business.
