OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 6 Financial statements 137 18.
Financial liabilities Borrowings continued The maturity of the Groups finance lease obligations is as follows: All figures in millions 2012 2011 Finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments Not later than one year 10 9 Later than one year and not later than two years 4 8 Later than two years and not later than three years 3 1 Later than three years and not later than four years Later than four years and not later than five years Later than five years Future finance charges on finance leases Present value of finance lease liabilities 17 18 The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows: All figures in millions 2012 2011 Not later than one year 10 9 Later than one year and not later than five years 7 9 Later than five years 17 18 The carrying amounts of the Groups lease obligations approximate their fair value.
Financial risk management The Groups approach to the management of financial risks together with sensitivity analyses of its financial instruments is set out below.
Treasury policy The Group holds financial instruments for two principal purposes: to finance its operations and to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from its operations and its sources of finance.
The Group finances its operations by a mixture of cash flows from operations, short-term borrowings from banks and commercial paper markets, and longer term loans from banks and capital markets.
The Group borrows principally in US dollars and sterling, at both floating and fixed rates of interest, using derivative financial instruments derivatives, where appropriate, to generate the desired effective currency profile and interest rate basis.
The derivatives used for this purpose are principally rate swaps, rate caps and collars, currency rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity and refinancing risk, counterparty risk and foreign currency risk.
These risks are managed by the chief financial officer under policies approved by the board, which are summarised overleaf.
All the treasury policies remained unchanged throughout, except for revisions to the Groups bank counterparty risk limits and related approval processes and minor amendments to reflect the consolidation of the Groups treasury operations into one location.
The audit committee receives reports on the Groups treasury activities, policies and procedures.
The treasury department is not a profit centre and its activities are subject to regular internal audit.
