OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 6 Financial statements 105 1.
Acquired intangible assets Acquired intangible assets include customer lists and relationships, trademarks e. Intangible assets continued and brands, publishing rights, content and technology.
acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included These assets are capitalised on acquisition at cost and in investments in associates and joint ventures.
Intangible assets acquired Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and in material business combinations are capitalised at carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
their fair value as determined by an independent valuer.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated that the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the useful lives of between two and 20 years, using an recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the amortisation method that reflects the pattern of higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
These calculations require the use of estimates and 5.
Pre-publication assets Pre-publication assets significant management judgement.
A description of the represent direct costs incurred in the development key assumptions and sensitivities is included in note 11. of educational programmes and titles prior to their Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the publication.
These costs are recognised as current purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made intangible assets where the title will generate probable to those cash-generating units that are expected future economic benefits and costs can be measured to benefit from the business combination in which reliably.
Pre-publication assets are amortised upon the goodwill arose.
publication of the title over estimated economic lives Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include of five years or less, being an estimate of the expected the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the operating life cycle of the title, with a higher proportion entity sold.
of the amortisation taken in the earlier years.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied The investment in pre-publication assets has been retrospectively to business combinations before the disclosed as part of cash generated from operations date of transition to IFRS.
in the cash flow statement see note 34.
Acquired software Software separately acquired for The assessment of the recoverability of pre-publication internal use is capitalised at cost.
Software acquired in assets and the determination of the amortisation material business combinations is capitalised at its fair profile involve a significant degree of judgement based value as determined by an independent valuer.
on historical trends and management estimation of Acquired software is amortised on a straight-line basis future potential sales.
An incorrect amortisation profile over its estimated useful life of between three and could result in excess amounts being carried forward as eight years.
intangible assets that would otherwise have been written off to the income statement in an earlier period.
Internally developed software Internal and external costs incurred during the preliminary stage of Reviews are performed regularly to estimate developing computer software for internal use are recoverability of pre-publication assets.
The carrying expensed as incurred.
Internal and external costs amount of pre-publication assets is set out in note 20. incurred to develop computer software for internal f. Other financial assets use during the application development stage are Other financial assets, designated as available for capitalised if the Group expects economic benefits sale investments, are non-derivative financial assets from the development.
Capitalisation in the application measured at estimated fair value.
Changes in the development stage begins once the Group can reliably fair value are recorded in equity in the fair value measure the expenditure attributable to the software reserve.
On the subsequent disposal of the asset, development and has demonstrated its intention to the net fair value gains or losses are taken to the complete and use the software.
software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of between three and eight years.
