FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements Year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Accounting policies General Information Perform Group plc is a public limited liability company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Sussex House, Plane Tree Crescent, Feltham, Middlesex, TW13 7HE.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set in the Directors Report.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the parents functional and presentational currency.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out below.
Adoption of new and revised standards IAS 19 Employee Benets amended June 2011 The amendments to IAS 19 change the accounting for dened benefit schemes and termination benets.
The most significant change relates to the accounting for changes in dened benefit obligations and scheme assets.
TheGroup does not operate any dened benefit schemes and accordingly whilst the amendments to IAS 19 have been adopted this revision willnot affect amounts reported in these financial statements.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures The Group has applied the amendments to IFRS 7 titled Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets in the current year.
The amendments increase the disclosure requirements for transactions involving the transfer of financial assets in order to provide greater transparency around risk exposures when financial assets are transferred.
Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes The amendments to IAS 12 provide a practical approach for measuring deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets when investment property is measured using the fair value model in IAS 40 Investment Property.
The Group does not have any investment property and accordingly whilst the amendments to IAS 12 have been adopted this revision will not affect amounts reported in these financial statements.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2015 : IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective 1 January 2013 : IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective 1 January 2013 : IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities effective 1 January 2013 : IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective 1 January 2013 : IAS 19 Employee Benets Revised June 2011 effective 1 January 2013 : IAS 27 Revised, Separate Financial Statements effective 1 January 2013 : IAS 28 Revised, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures effective 1 January 2013 : Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Amendments to IAS 1 effective 1 July 2012 : Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IFRS 7 effective 1 January 2013 : Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32 effective 1 January 2014 : Mandatory Effective Date and Transition Disclosures Amendments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 effective 1 January 2015 : Government Loans Amendments to IFRS 1 effective 1 January 2013 : IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine effective 1 January 2013 : Annual Improvements 2009-2011 Cycle effective 1 January 2013 : Transition Guidance Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 effective 1 January 2013 : and Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 effective 1 January 2014.
The directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods except as follows: IAS 1 amended will increase the disclosure requirements within the statement of comprehensive income: IFRS 7 amended will increase the disclosure requirements where netting arrangements are in place for financial assets and financial liabilities: IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosure of Financial Instruments: IFRS 12 will impact the disclosure of interests the Group has in other entities: and IFRS 13 will impact the measurement of fair value for certain assets and liabilities as well as the associated disclosures.
74 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review hasbeen completed.
Basis of accounting The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company.
Control isachieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benets from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights, currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights byway of contractual arrangement.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective dateof acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenditure are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identied separately from the Groups equity therein.
The interests of non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the fair value of the acquirees identiable net assets.
The choice of measurement is made on an acquisition by acquisition basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes inequity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Changes in the Groups interest in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying amount of the Groups interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the Company.
Restatement of 2011 statement of equity, statement of financial position and statement of cash ows The Group has recently concluded discussions with the Financial Reporting Councils Conduct Committee FRCCC.
The FRCCC requested some information and clarification relating to the Groups 2011 financial statements and following that the Directors concluded that certain items in the Groups 2011 consolidated statement of cash ows should be re-classied and a liability in respect of an acquisition of a non-controlling interest in an already controlled subsidiary should be recognised.
i Presentation of 2011 consolidated statement of cash ows The Group, in its 2011 consolidated statement of cash ows, classied exceptional Iiems directly attributable to i its listing on the London Stock Exchange and ii acquisition costs as nancing and investing activities respectively.
Following the Groups discussions with the FRCCC, the Directors now consider that these items should be disclosed within the Groups operating cash ows and are not directly related to the Groups investing or nancing activities.
In addition the Group had recorded a cash outflow in respect of its acquisition of non-controlling interests as an investing activity, however, following the Groups discussion with the FRCCC, the Group now considers that these cash flows arise from a change in ownership interests in subsidiary companies and as they do not result in the gain or loss of control these outflows should be presented as a financing cash outflow.
Consequently cash flow from operating activities, which was previously disclosed as 15,154,000, has been reduced by 4,998,000 to 10,156,000: cash flow used in investing activities which was previously disclosed as 34,083,000 has been reduced by 6,250,000 to 27,833,000: and cash flow from financing activities which was previously disclosed as 77,855,000 has been reduced by 1,252,000 to 76,603,000 to reflect the .
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Accounting policies continued The Group has also taken the opportunity to separately disclose working capital into movements in trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and foreign exchange in its consolidated statement of cash flows.
The re-presentation of these items has had no effect on the opening and closing cash position, comprehensive income, or statement of financial position as previously reported within the 2011 annual report.
ii Accounting for contingent amounts payable to the seller of a non-controlling interest The Group has also reviewed its accounting with respect to its 2011 acquisition of the non-controlling interest in WatchandTrade Limited.
The Group did not record a liability in respect of the contingent consideration for the acquisition of the non-controlling interest and instead had intended to recognise the payments, on a cash basis, directly within equity as a transaction with a shareholder.
Following the Groups discussions with the FRCCC, the directors have re-considered this policy and whilst they still consider that the payments are, in substance, to acquire the shares in WatchandTrade Limited, the directors consider that a liability should have been recorded at the date of the transaction with an offsetting adjustment to equity in accordance with IAS 27 and IAS 32.
As such the Group have re-stated its prior year consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of financial position by recognising a liability of 4,892,000 for the fair value of the contingent consideration with a corresponding balance recognised within equity in the 2011 comparative balances.
Previously total net assets and total equity at 31 December 2011 had been 132,854,000.
The re-statement has had the effect of increasing noncurrent acquisition related consideration previously 3,547,000 by 4,892,000 to 8,439,000 and reducing total equity by the same amount from 132,854,000 to 127,962,000.
This prior year adjustment has had no effect on the consolidated income statement.
Going concern The Group had cash balances of 33.6 million at the year end and 6.9 million of debt relating to borrowings and finance leases of 0.2 million.
The Group has net current liabilities at 31 December 2012 but this is due to the liability for the final earnout payment in relation to the RunningBall acquisition in March 2013.
The Group has in place committed debt facilities of 50 million which will be drawn down in full to finance this.
Having reviewed cash ow forecasts and budgets for the year ahead the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has sufficient resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Business combinations On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Changes in the Groups ownership interest that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
Purchase of noncontrolling interests are recognised directly within equity being the difference between the fair value of the consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the book value of the net assets to the subsidiary.
Contingent and deferred consideration arising as a result of acquisitions is stated at fair value.
Contingent and deferred consideration is based on managements best estimate of the likely outcome and best estimate of fair value, which is usually, but not always, a contracted formula based on a multiple of EBITDA.
The contingent and deferred consideration is recorded as a liability and re-measured at each reporting date.
Any changes to the fair value are charged to the Income Statement.
To the extent that contingent consideration is substantively linked to employment or service conditions, where the selling shareholders continue to provide post-combination services those payments will be charged to the Income Statement as a remuneration or service-related charge over the relevant period.
Where there are no service-related charges, changes to the contingent consideration are charged to the Income Statement.
Where the Group has an option to acquire a non-controlling interest in a subsidiary the fair value of that option is recognised as a liability with a corresponding movement in reserves, in accordance with IAS 27.
The changes in fair value of the option at each reporting date are recognised in the Income Statement.
If the contingent consideration is subject to service-related provisions it is charged through the Income Statement as 76 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS a service cost over the relevant period.
However, if there are no service related conditions, the changes in the fair value are recognised in the income statement as a finance cost.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Additional consideration and details with respect to the Groups policies relating to the acquisition of non-controlling interests and contingent consideration are set out in key judgements and estimation uncertainty below.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill ismeasured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest if any in the entity over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after re-assessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest intheacquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
Goodwill is internally monitored for impairment purposes at the level of the Groups single operating segment accordingly the Group only has one cash generating unit CGU for impairment testing purposes.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of the Groups CGU is determined from value in use calculations.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation is treated as an asset of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
Revenue recognition Revenue represents amounts derived from the provision of services falling within the Groups continuing ordinary activities, after the deduction of value added tax.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable.
Content distribution Content distribution relates to sales of licences of the Groups Watch&Bet, Omnisport, GSM, Watch&Trade and RunningBall products.
Content distribution revenue is recognised over the course of the contract using a stage of completion method.
Stage of completion is measured as the ratio ofvalue of content delivered to date to total value of content to be delivered over the life of the contract period.
Any content distribution monies received in advance of the contract commencing are recognised in current liabilities as deferred income.
Subscription Sales of online subscription products, mobile downloads, online pay-per-view transactions and sms alerts are recognised across the period inwhich service is provided.
The clients shares of such revenues are shown within cost of sales.
Technology and production Service fees generated from the ongoing provision of website servicing, maintenance and hosting to customers are recognised in line withtheservice delivery to the customer, which is usually evenly across a contractual period.
Fees arising from the building of products for customers or for structural enhancements to existing customer products are recognised inlinewith contractual milestones which reect the stage of completion during the contractual build period.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Accounting policies continued Advertising and sponsorship display and video Revenue related to sponsorship activity is recognised in line with the services physically delivered compared to the services specified within acontract agreed with a sponsor.
Revenue related to static display and video advertising is recognised based on the number of advertising impressions physically delivered compared to the required number of advertising impressions included within a contract agreed with either a brand or an advertising agency.
Where the Group represents a third-party website, the clients shares of such revenues are shown within cost of sales.
Content costs The Group typically licenses the right from sports associations, sports bodies, leagues or their agents or partners to supply live sports content to online bookmakers and or to supply aggregated non-exclusive video-on-demand typically highlights via the Groups embeddable video player embedded on publisher websites or distributed in a news feed typically highlights.
The rights the Group license are for a xed period of time, typically three years.
The rights are generally paid in instalments over the length ofthe contract, typically quarterly in advance and as such the Group will recognise a prepayment.
The Group recognises its payments for sports streaming rights as an expense when the sporting event is streamed.
If the contract comprises several sporting events or match days, the contractually agreed amount is allocated to the individual events or match days according to their respective share.
For example, the contractually agreed amount for broadcasting the matches in a football league season are allocated totheindividual match days using the straight line method.
Refer to critical accounting judgements below for an explanation of the accounting treatment adopted.
Leases Leases are classied as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value, or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance expenses are recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless they are directly attributable toqualifying assets in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement over the term of the relevant lease and in accordance with theterms of the relevant leases.
Operating lease costs relating to accommodation are recognised in the income statement under .
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability.
The aggregate benefit ofincentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense on a straight line basis, except where another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benets from the leased asset are consumed.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which itoperates.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each group company are expressed inpounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities thatare denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rates prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that aredenominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items thatare measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
78 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated atexchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates uctuate signicantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Exchangedifferences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS as sterling-denominated assets and liabilites.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated before investment income and finance costs.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised tothe extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of the deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred taxis charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity or other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities andwhen they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities ona netbasis.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment atrates calculated to write each asset down to its residual value assumed to be nil, using the straight line method, over its expected useful lifeasfollows: Internet hosting platform three years Office furniture and equipment three years Leasehold improvements three years Motor vehicles three years Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Accounting policies continued Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets, or where shorter, overtheterm of the relevant lease.
Intangible assets computer software development Where in the opinion of the Directors, the Groups expenditure in relation to development of software results in future economic benets, thesecosts including directly attributable overheads are capitalised and amortised over the useful economic life of the asset.
Development costs are capitalised only when it is probable that future economic benefit will result from the project and the following criteria aremet: the technical feasibility of the product has been ascertained: adequate technical, financial and other resources are available to complete and sell or use the intangible asset: the Group can demonstrate how the intangible asset will generate future economic benets and the ability to use or sell the intangible asset can be demonstrated: it is the intention of management to complete the intangible asset and use it or sell it: and the development costs can be measured reliably.
Where these criteria are not met development costs are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Amortisation is provided on computer software development at a rate calculated to write each asset down to its estimated residual value assumed to be nil, using the straight line method, over its useful life, usually three years.
Methods of amortisation, residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each reporting date.
Intangible assets other Identiable intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations, that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date and amortised, on a straight line basis, over their useful economic life on the following basis: Domain names URLs indefinite life refer to critical judgements below for an explanation of why URLs have an indefinite life Database content 8% 33% Customer relationships 8% 33% Website architecture 8% 33% Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding Goodwill At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its goodwill, tangible and intangible assets and intangible assets not yet available for use to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the assets is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit product to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value, less costs to sell, and the value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cashows, which are based on budgeted gures, are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had noimpairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised asincome immediately.
80 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liability and equity Financial liability and equity instruments are classied according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with an interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating the interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Derivative financial instruments From time to time the Group enters into certain financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk including foreign exchange vanilla options and interest rate swaps.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 21.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12months and is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilites.
In the event a premium is paid for a derivative financial instrument, this premium is recognised over the life of the relevant contract.
In addition, certain of the Groups acquisitions contain an option to acquire non-controlling interests at specified dates in the future for either xed of variable future payments.
The accounting for these options is set out in Business Combinations pages 76 and 77.
Trade receivables and other receivable financial assets Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their fair value on initial recognition plus transaction costs if any and carried atamortised cost under the effective interest method.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short term deposits held by the Group.
In 2011 It also included cash held on deposit with theGroups credit card service provider, Streamline.
There was no such balance at 31 December 2012.
Trade and other payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their fair value on initial recognition plus transaction costs if any and carried atamortised cost.
The fair value of trade and other payables has not been disclosed as, due to their short duration, management considers the carrying values recognised in the balance sheet to be a reasonable approximation of their fair value.
Share-based payments Equity-settled share-based payments to employees and others providing similar services are measured at the fair value of the equity instrument at the grant date.
The fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Details regarding the determination of the fair value of equity-settled share-based transactions are set out in note 26.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the non-market based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision ofthe original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Accounting policies continued The fair value of SAYE share options is recognsed as an expense and adjusted to reect the number of shares expected to vest.
SAYE share options granted to employees are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme.
This results inaccelerated recognition of the expenses that would have arisen over the remainder of the original vesting period.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised for the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
At each balance sheet date until the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is remeasured with anychanges in fair value recognised in profit or loss for the year.
Pension The Group makes contributions on behalf of employees to an independent, dened contribution pension scheme.
The Group has no legal obligation to pay further contributions after the payment ofitsxed contribution, providing that xed contribution is matched by an employee.
These contributions are recognised as an expense intheperiod the relevant employee services are received.
Segmental reporting In accordance with IFRS 8, operating segments are reporting in a manner that is consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board ofDirectors, the chief operating decision maker.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in this Statement of Group Accounting Policies, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period inwhich the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies The items below are critical judgements that the Directors believe have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in these nancialstatements: Content costs The Group typically licences the right from sports associations, sports bodies, leagues or their agents or partners to supply live sports content to online bookmakers and or to supply aggregated non-exclusive video-on-demand typically highlights via the Groups embeddable video player embedded on publisher websites or distributed in a news feed typically highlights.
The rights are generally paid in instalments over the length ofthe contract, typically quarterly in advance and as such the Group recognises a prepayment.
The Group recognises its payments for sports rights as an expense when the sporting event is delivered.
For example, the contractually agreed amount for broadcasting the matches in a football league season are allocated to the individual match days using the straight line method.
Whilst in substance the sports rights are intangible assets, given their nature they are not capable of recognition as an intangible asset until the sports event occurs, at which time an asset is capable of recognition but at the same time is fully amortised because the value is substantially diminished asthe event is delivered to customers.
The rights may relate to individual events such as an international football match or a series of sporting events such as a football league season.
In contrast to, say, an acquired lm licence, a sports right is not based on an exploitation right protected by copyright.
Rather the organiser declares to the Group that it will waive the exercise ofitsown rights not to stream the sport to the sportsbooks.
82 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A sports broadcasting right arises when the sporting event is actually held, broadcast or streamed.
The intellectual property relating to a sporting event is only created once the sporting event has actually been held.
If the rights relate to a series of sporting events, such as the streaming of football league matches for an entire season, the sports right has thecharacteristics of a successive supply agreement because the required performance by the organiser in the form of the above mentioned waiver of the exercise of its rights not to stream the sport only happens on the relevant match day.
In the case of rights for video-on-demand offerings, these highlights are generally viewed on publisher websites very soon after the event and unlike a lm or TV programming are generally viewed signicantly less as time passes after the original event.
The Group has considered whether there is any residual value to such video-on-demand offerings and concluded that any value would be minimal and not material.
The amounts to be paid are based on the sports events to be streamed.
There is no minimum amount that would be payable ifthe event doesnot occur.
No payment is made if a match is postponed.
Payments are made for the value of the future events and not for a right to futurecontent.
Any advance payments made of when the event is held and when the expense is recognised represent a pre-payment of the rights or the organisers waiver of the exercise of its rights not to stream the sport.
In substance part of the pre-payment becomes an intangible asset when the event or tournament takes place but, given the short life, is fully amortised over the same period and no accounting entries are made to reect this reclassication.
The pre-payment balance attributable to the sporting event is simply expensed to match the revenue recognised.
Commitment to acquire content rights The Group has commitments to acquire internet content rights.
As at 31 December 2012 these commitments total 84 million 2011: 101 million.
TheDirectors do not consider this commitment to be a financial liability as this commitment relates to future payments for future sporting events that the Group has acquired the right to stream.
For the reasons set out above and as the organiser declares it waives the exercise of its own rights to stream the sport, the Group does not consider it meets the criteria for recognition of an intangible asset nor does it consider it has a financial liability in accordance with IAS 39 until the sporting event has been delivered to the Group.
Whilst the Group has a commitment to make these payments, such payments are dependent on the sporting events occurring.
In the event that a particular event or set of events does not occur the Group would not be required to make all, or part of, the committed payments referred to above.
In the light of this, the Group considers the long term contract to contain a number of executory components and, therefore, does not consider the future amounts payable that are conditional on the occurrence of the sporting event and the delivery by the rights owner of the live stream to be a financial liability as neither party has performed any of its obligations relating to the future sporting events.
Segmental reporting In accordance with IFRS 8, operating segments are reporting in a manner that is consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board of Directors, the chief operating decision maker.
The performance of the Group is monitored on the same basis as the groups consolidatedaccounts.
Management information that is regularly reported to the Board for the purposes of allocating resources and monitoring performance is the monthly board pack.
The board pack contains an analysis of revenue for the Groups five activities.
It is the Directors assessment that the revenue only information reported in the monthly board pack does not constitute discrete financial information in the context of the denition ofan operating segment as set out in IFRS 8.
The revenue information that is presented in note 3 is however, considered to be useful information forthe readers of our annual report and accounts.
The Group considers it only has a single operating segment.
The Board does not monitor the profitability of the five activities individually.
Whilst the Group reports its revenues across the five activities which is considered the most helpful and transparent for its investors operationally the Group has a number of products such as Watch&Bet that operate off one common technology platform, sets of rights typically cleared for all products and platforms and staff who sell, manage and produce this content across multiple products.
A key decision for the Board is whether to acquire a particular set of high value sports rights.
The Board make their decision based on whether thebusiness, in aggregate, can generate revenue across the five activities for that set of sports rights in excess of the cost.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Accounting policies continued In light of the fact that value of acquired rights is typically not split between the Groups different products and platforms it is not possible topresent a reliable, accurate or helpful measure of profitability to the Board and any profitability of the five activities would be arbitrary andunreliable for the purpose of making decisions and involve significant allocation and apportionment of Group wide costs.
Treatment of subsidiary undertakings and related deferred and or contingent consideration The Group has one subsdiary Mackolik Internet Hitzmetleri Ticaret A. S. Mackolik which was not wholly owned at the year-end and three further subsidiaries Global Sports Media BV GSM, Sportal Australia Pty Ltd Sportal.
au and WatchandTrade Limited which were not wholly owned for the whole of 2011.
These have all been consolidated and included as subsidiary undertakings within the Groups financial statements.
The Directors have reviewed the accounting treatment of each subsidiary to confirm that they should not be accounted for as joint ventures.
In each case these reviews concluded that the Group had effective control either through its actual inuence on the strategic and operational policies of the companies and or through its contractual rights to acquire 100% control of voting equity.
As reported in last years annual report and accounts, the remaining non-controlling interest in GSM was acquired in 2011 in exchange for acontractually xed payment.
The remaining non-controlling interest in Sportal.
au was acquired in 2012 in exchange for a nominal payment.
WatchandTrade Limited In December 2011 the Group acquired the remaining 40% of shares non-controlling interest of WatchandTrade Limited for a cash payment of 550,000 with additional consideration based on the annual results of WatchandTrade over the period to 31 December 2013.
The Sale and Purchase Agreement entered into in December 2011 modied a previous agreement entered into by the Group in 2009 and the other shareholder who owned the non-controlling interest.
The original 2009 agreement contained an option for the Group to acquire the noncontrolling interest by paying additional consideration based on the results of WatchandTrade or a xed payment of 5 million before December 2011.
At the date of entering the 2009 agreement the Group valued the 40% at between 5 million and 6 million.
The additional consideration mechanic set out in the 2011 agreement is determined on the annual results of WatchandTrade and is over the period to 31 December 2013.
The maximum amount payable under the new agreement is 6.4 million.
0.7 million was paid in December 2011 on signing the new agreement.
As such the maximum undiscounted liability at 31 December 2011 was 5.7 million.
The Directors believe that the maximum amount will be paid out.
The Group have recognised a liability for the discounted fair value of the contingent consideration as at 31 December 2011 of 4.8 million in accordance with IAS 32 and 39 with a corresponding adjustment to equity in accordance with IAS 27 as the Directors believe that these payments are consideration for acquiring the non-controlling interest.
The financial liability will be subsequently measured and any changes arising from either the timing or the amount of the liability will be recognised in the income statement as a finance charge in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39.
The Group had not recognised this financial liability in its previous financial statements as it had initially concluded that any payments in respect of the acquisition of the non-controlling interest should be recognised directly in equity as a transaction with a shareholder.
However following the conclusion of the Groups discussions with the FRCCC the Group has re-stated its prior year consolidated statement of financial position and statement of changes in equity refer to prior year re-statement above.
The payments are, to a certain extent, conditional upon continuing service from the selling shareholder during the earn-out period, however, in the judgement of the Directors it is not believed that these payments due to the selling shareholder reect payments in respect of his service.
The Directors believe that IAS 27 applies to the contingent payments to acquire the shares and as such have not considered it necessary to develop an alternative accounting policy by reference to other accounting standards.
The Directors acknowledge that there is a critical judgment in this accounting treatment and acknowledge that the Group could have developed an alternative accounting policy.
However, as the Directors consider the estimated fair value of the payments under the 2011 agreement is not materially different from the 2009 agreement, that wasnt contingent on future service, the Directors believe the treatment adopted is appropriate.
In the event that the payments become or the Directors believe will become materially different from the estimated fair value of payments under the 2009 contract, the Group will recognise this cost as a charge within the Income Statement.
84 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Mackolik The Mackolik Sale and Purchase Agreement contains a forward contract to enable the Group to acquire the remaining 49% interest.
The Directors have judged that this does not result in a 100% acquisition on the acquisition date.
The sellers of the 49% interest remain exposed to the risks and rewards of ownership the distributable profit of the company will be distributed pro-rata to the share ownership until the point at which the Group acquires the remaining 49% until these shares are acquired by the Group and accordingly the acquisition has been accounted for as a step acquisition.
The Group have obtained an independent valuation of what the forward contract to acquire the 49% of the controlled subsidiary is worth in 2016 and as the risks and rewards of owning the 49% will not be transferred to the Group until actual payment is made in 2016, in accordance with IAS 32 and 39, the Group have recorded a liability with a corresponding debit to equity for the present value of 14.9 million of that independently valued liability.
Whilst there are no employment provisions connected to the payment of the contingent consideration, there are certain service-related provisions contained within the Sale and Purchase Agreement.
As such it is the Directors view that any difference between the independent valuation of the forward contract and the present value of the amount the Group expects to pay must be related to those service-related provisions.
As such any difference will be taken to the Income Statement as an acquisition related service charge.
The Directors best estimate at the date of acquisition and at 31 December 2012 of the amount to be paid in 2016 is approximately 23 million.
The present value of this payment at the date of acquisition was 15.1 million.
Consequently a 0.2 million service charge will be recognised in the Income Statement over the period from acquisition until the date of payment in 2016.
The charge recognised in 2012 was 22,000.
The Directors will re-assess their estimation of the final payment at each reporting date and any future differences will be charged or credited to the income statement.
The accretion in respect of the unwind of the discount being applied to the Directors best estimate of the final payment 23 million to present value 15.1 million is being recognised in the Income Statement as a finance charge over the period from the acquisition date to the date of the final payment in 2016.
The charge recognised in 2012 in respect of this accretion was 1.0 million.
In addition, distributable profits of Mackolik for each financial year between 2012 2015 will be distributed to the Group and other shareholders pro-rata to their respective holdings.
These contractual dividend payments represent an obligation to make payments to the shareholders and accordingly the present value of the expected future payments have been recorded as a liability with a corresponding entry recognised directly in equity.
The liability will be remeasured at each reporting date with any subsequent amendments being recognised as a service charge or credit through the Income Statement.
The Directors current best estimate of the undiscounted cash ows is approximately 6.0 million and discounted is 5.0 million.
The accretion in respect of the unwind of the discount being applied to the Directors best estimate of the final payment 6 million to present value 5 million is being recognised in the Income Statement as a finance charge over the period from the acquisition date to the date of the final payment in 2016.
The charge recognised in 2012 in respect of this accretion was 0.2 million.
The independent valuation of the option to acquire the 49% non-controlling interest of 14.9 million plus the present value of the future liability for the dividends of 4.9 million exceeds the payments for the 51% of 16.5 million including the working capital payment.
In addition, the Sale and Purchase Agreement contains a provision which allows the shareholders to re-purchase the 51% in the event the Group does not purchase the non-controlling interest.
The independent valuer considers this has a discounted value of approximately 2 million.
The Directors believe that the remaining differential represents a discount on the fair value accepted by the sellers of the 51% stake, who have exited the business, in order to receive cash consideration upon disposal of 51% of their shares and to reduce any ongoing ownership risk.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Accounting policies continued Spox Media GmbH and mediasports Digital GmbH The contingent consideration in respect of the acquisition of Spox Media GmbH and mediasports Digital GmbH is payable to the previous private equity owners and four other individuals, only two of whom are continuing to provide post-combination service.
The private equity owners were the majority shareholders in the business prior to the acquisition and the Group anticipates that approximately two-thirds of the contingent consideration will be payable to them.
The remaining third of the contingent consideration is split amongst the four individuals in proportion to their shareholdings.
The Directors view is that the amount allocated to the two individuals providing a continuing service is not material and as such no service-related charge has been recognised.
Contingent consideration Contingent consideration arising as a result of acquisitions is stated at fair value.
Contingent and deferred consideration is based on Managements best estimate of the likely outcome and best estimate of fair value, which is usually, but not always, a contracted formula based on a multiple of EBITDA.
Subscription and advertising sales revenue recognition The Group provides online and mobile subscription based products to its customers, usually via customer branded websites to end users.
The Group sets the price of these products, collects revenues and delivers the products, including after service customer care.
The Directors have reviewed the products and the nature of how they were supplied and concluded that the revenue generated from these products should be shown as that of the Group being a principal to these transactions with customer revenue share payments included in cost of sales.
The Group acts as advertising sales agent for online advertising inventory of a network of internet sites.
The Group has built this network and seeks advertising campaigns from brands and media agencies to deliver via this network.
The Group employs its sales staff at its own risk, effectively negotiates prices and delivers traffics the advertising campaigns.
The Directors have reviewed these arrangements and concluded that the revenue generated from these products should be shown as that of the Group being a principal to these transactions with customer internet sites revenue share payments included in cost of sales, rather than as an agent.
Internally generated software and research Management monitors progress of internal software development projects by using a project management system.
significant judgement isrequired in distinguishing whether such development should be written off or capitalised.
Development costs are recognised as an asset whenall the criteria are met, costs are not capitalised and are written off where this is not the case.
The Groups Management also monitors whether the recognition requirements for development costs continue to be met.
This is necessary asthe economic success of any product development is uncertain and may be subject to future technical problems or developments after thetime of recognition.
Domain names URLs In 2011 and 2012 the Group has acquired a number of large businesses whose primary focus is to run and monetise sports portals and as such alarge element of the value of the acquired intangible assets has been attributed to the domain name URL.
Due to the nature of the assets acquired, competitive benchmarking and external valuation advice received, the Directors have concluded that it was appropriate for the domain names to have an indefinite life.
This conclusion was reached because the Directors consider that it is definite the internet will continue and sport and football will continue to be as popular and digitally consumed byconsumers and used by the Group in a similar way to the way it is used currently.
As such the Directors do not see a foreseeable limit to the period of over which the domain names are expected to generate cash inows.
This conclusion is reviewed, and will continue to be reviewed, at each reporting date by the Directors.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The estimates and assumptions, which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Where a source of uncertainty has been discussed above it has not been duplicated below.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Determining whether goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units products entities to which goodwill or those intangible assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash ows expected to arise from the cash generating units products and a suitable discount rate in order tocalculate present value.
86 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Revenue 2012 2011 000 000 Rendering of services and revenue as disclosed in the consolidated income statement 151,607 103,194 Investment income 533 834 Total revenue as dened in IAS 18 152,140 104,028 3.
Segment information The Group focuses its internal management reporting on the following activities: Content distribution The Groups content distribution revenue is generated from the sales of the Watch&Bet, RunningBall and WatchandTrade services, suite of Omnisport products and GSM data products.
Subscription The Groups subscription revenue is generated by subscribers paying for web TV, mobile content and Livesport.
Advertising and sponsorship online video The Groups ePlayer generates pre-roll video advertising and sponsorship revenues.
Advertising and sponsorship online display The Group generates its online display revenues through sales of display inventory on Goal, Spox, Sportal.
fide, Mackolik, Soccerway and Sportal and on a network of third-party premium sports websites.
Technology and production The Group generates technology and production revenues from the design, build and management of website and mobile services and the production of live and video on demand content.
Refer to accounting policies critical judgments for an explanation of why the Directors have concluded this.
The Group has elected to disclose additional costs over and above the requirements of IFRS 8 in the followingtable.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 3.
Segment information continued Operating segment information for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 is as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 Revenue Content distribution 92,971 64,943 Subscription 12,341 9,535 Technology and production 14,609 14,953 Advertising and sponsorship video 13,275 6,792 Advertising and sponsorship display 18,411 6,971 Total revenue 151,607 103,194 Cost of sales Content 41,102 35,831 Publisher shares 6,397 2,715 Technical and software fees 7,807 6,221 Production 10,159 6,947 Other 1,687 1,386 Total cost of sales 67,152 53,100 Gross profit 84,455 50,094 Staff costs 36,601 24,415 Other administrative costs 10,352 7,205 Adjusted EBITDA excluding exceptional items and share-based payments 37,502 18,474 Exceptional items 5,348 4,998 Exceptional share-based payments 1,228 4,770 Share-based payments 2,018 352 EBITDA 28,908 8,354 Amortisation and depreciation 6,486 3,748 Acquisition related amortisation and service charges 2,908 855 Group operating profit 19,514 3,751 Investment income 533 834 Accretion of deferred consideration 1,862 Other finance costs 1,265 1,099 Group profit before tax 16,920 3,486 Total assets 300,403 186,481 Total liabilities 129,896 58,519 The Group is required to present geographical information relating to its revenues.
Revenues are attributed to territories in the following ways: Content distribution Watch&Bet and Subscription revenues are recognised in the territory where the end viewer is located: Other content distribution Omnisport, WatchandTrade, RunningBall and GSM revenues are recognised where the contracting party is located which is typically where the service is delivered.
Technology and production revenues are recognised in the territory where the contracting party is located which is typically where the service is delivered: and Advertising and sponsorship revenues are recognised in the territory where the publisher is located.
Geographical revenue information for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 is presented below.
88 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Middle East United Asia and North Rest of Kingdom Europe Pacic Americas Africa world Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 2012 Content distribution 17,274 49,497 20,003 2,867 2,130 1,200 92,971 Subscription 7,096 1,464 808 2,011 548 414 12,341 Technology and production 9,306 1,471 1,618 280 1,934 14,609 Advertising and sponsorship 7,747 12,754 2,369 8,376 431 9 31,686 Total revenue 41,423 65,186 24,798 13,534 5,043 1,623 151,607 Middle East United Asia and North Rest of Kingdom Europe Pacic Americas Africa world Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 2011 Content distribution 9,824 39,800 11,870 1,426 1,903 123 64,946 Subscription 6,202 1,139 511 1,551 122 9 9,534 Technology and production 9,505 1,395 1,623 132 2,378 15,033 Advertising and sponsorship 5,748 2,647 1,225 3,764 131 166 13,681 Total revenue 31,279 44,981 15,229 6,873 4,534 298 103,194 The total of non-current assets other than goodwill and deferred tax assets there are no post-employment benefit assets or rights arising under insurance contracts located in the UK is 14,730,000 2011: 11,140,000.
Revenues of 24,244,000 were derived from one external customer in 2012.
In 2011 revenues of 18,516,000, 6,353,000 and 6,277,000 were derived from three external customers.
These revenues are attributable to the Content Distribution, Subscription, Technology and Production and Advertising and sponsorship segments and are from the only customers which individually represented over 5% of the Groupsrevenues.
Operating profit Operating profit has been arrived at after charging: 2012 2011 000 000 Rentals payable under operating leases 1,475 961 Impairment loss recognised on trade receivables 429 289 Net foreign exchange gains losses 775 335 Exceptional share-based payments GSOP 1,228 4,770 Share-based payments 2,018 352 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3,952 2,634 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 2,534 1,114 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 2,886 855 Acquisition related service charge 22 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 4.
Operating profit continued In accordance with Statutory Instrument 2005 No.
2417, fees payable to Grant Thornton UK LLP and their associates are shown below: 2012 2011 000 000 Fees payable to the Groups auditors for the audit of the Groups annual accounts 54 48 Fees payable to the Groups auditors for the audit of the Groups subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 113 50 Total audit fees 167 98 Fees payable to the Groups auditors for other services: Interim review 29 17 Tax services 218 259 IPO and acquisition services classied within exceptional items 45 688 Other services 69 20 Total fees payable to the Groups auditors 528 1,082 5.
Staff costs The average monthly number of employees including Executive and Non-Executive Directors was: 2012 2011 Nos.
Business development and sales 80 70 Account management and marketing 65 55 Production 467 235 Technology 183 165 Administration and management 111 65 Total 906 590 Production staff costs have increased due to the impact of RunningBall, Spox and Mackolik employees who produce data and content and an increase in the number of the Groups core data and content and production staff supporting its Omnisport and Watch&Bet products.
Employee costs including Executive Directors were: 2012 2011 000 000 Wages and salaries 31,680 21,937 Social security costs 3,731 1,746 Pension costs 1,190 732 Total 36,601 24,415 In addition, the total exceptional share-based payment charge was 1,228,000 2011: 4,770,000 and other share-based charges were 2,018,000 2011: 352,000.
See note 26 for further details of the Groups share-based payment schemes.
Key management costs including Executive and Non Executive Directors were: 2012 2011 000 000 Wages and salaries 4,855 2,968 Social security costs 645 285 Pension costs 321 114 Total 5,821 3,367 90 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In the current year the Directors have expanded the number of employees classied as key employees.
In 2011 the Directors considered 19 individuals to be key including Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
In 2012 this increased to 42, 2011 relates solely to those individuals classied as key management in 2011 and has not been restated to include those considered to be key in 2012.
Had this been re-stated, the 2011 comarative on a like for like basis would have been approximately 5 million.
In addition to the above, the total share-based payment charge relating to key employees was 2,018,000 2011: 537,000.
This excludes the exceptional share-based payment charge which was also primarily paid to individuals classied as key management in 2012 refer to note 26.
Directors remuneration is set out on page 61 within the Remuneration Committee Report.
Exceptional costs 2012 2011 000 000 Costs in relation to the Groups Listing on the London Stock Exchange 3,228 Costs in relation to the Groups class 1 transaction, acquisition and new debt facilities 2,042 Costs in relation to the Groups acquisition of other subsidiaries 3,306 1,770 5,348 4,998 During the year the Group acquired RunningBall Holding AG a class 1 transaction, Mackolik Internet Hitzmetleri Ticaret A. S. and Sportal GmbH.
The related costs given their size and nature have been classied as exceptional by the Directors.
In addition certain costs were incurred in relation to the issue of new equity related to the acquisition of RunningBall refer to notes 24 and 28 and the arrangement of the Groups new debt facilities related to the acquisition of RunningBall refer to note 20 these have also been categorised asexceptional.
During 2011 the Group listed on the London Stock Exchange see note 24.
In addition, during 2011 the Group acquired Goal.
com Holdco S. A. Spox Media GmbH and mediasports Digital GmbH as well as acquiring the non-controlling interests of Global Sports Media B. V. and WatchandTrade Limited.
The associated costs have been classied as exceptional items by the Directors.
Investment income 2012 2011 000 000 Interest receivable 533 834 Investment income primarily relates to bank interest receivable on funds raised during the Groups IPO.
Finance costs 2012 2011 000 000 Interest payable 558 849 Finance lease costs 48 59 Accretion of deferred consideration 1,862 Other bank charges and finance costs 659 191 3,127 1,099 Interest payable in both years primarily relates to bank interest on the Groups borrowings.
Other bank charges and finance costs relate to the amortisation of the arrangement fee paid on the Groups current term loan and the cost of the related xed rate hedge 132,000 and 55,000 respectively, non-utilisation fees paid under the Groups new debt facilities refer to note 20 296,000 and other bank charges 176,000.
Other bank fees in 2011 primarily related to the amortisation of the term loan, the related interest rate swap cost and other bank charges.
Accretion of deferred consideration relates to the unwind of the discount applied to the valuation of the liabilities for contingent payments due in respect of the acquisitions of Spox 293,000, Mackolik 1,182,000 and WatchandTrade 387,000.
Refer to notes 1 and 28 for a further explanation.
There was no accretion of deferred consideration in the prior year.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 9.
Taxation 2012 2011 000 000 Current tax: UK corporation tax at 24.5% 2011: 26.5% 303 Foreign tax: Overseas tax 2,281 194 Deferred tax: Current year originating temporary differences 955 813 Adjustment in respect of prior years 187 85 Tax charge credit for the year 3,423 231 UK corporation tax is calculated at 24.5% 2011: 26.5% of the estimated assessable profit for the year Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in those jurisdictions.
The charge credit for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 profit before tax 16,920 3,486 Tax at weighted average UK corporation tax rate of 24.5% 2011: 26.5% 4,145 924 Effects of: Tax effect of expenses not deductible in determining taxable profit 848 1,132 Tax effect of service credits not taxable in determining taxable profit 172 Prior year adjustments 187 Recognition of deferred tax assets 1,958 Change in UK tax rate on deferred tax balances 284 Effects of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 2,382 98 Other differences 513 Tax charge credit 3,423 231 The Groups underlying tax rate for 2012 is 18%.
The Groups statutory tax rate is 20% and is higher than the underlying tax rate of 18% primarily due to the impact of non-deductible exceptional professional costs relating to the Groups acquisitions.
92 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10.
Earnings per share 2012 2011 profit for the period attributable to equity holders 000 A 12,840 3,129 Exceptional items 000 5,348 4,998 Share-based payments 000 3,246 5,122 Accretion of acquisition related payments 000 1,862 Acquisition related amortisation and service costs 000 2,908 855 Adjusted earnings 000 B 26,204 14,104 Weighted average number of shares in issue 000s basic C 233,255 218,370 Dilutive effect of performance share plan 000s 2,388 468 Weighted average number of shares in issue 000s diluted D 235,643 218,838 Adjusted weighted average number of shares in issue basic E 233,255 225,376 Dilutive effect of performance share plan 000s 2,388 468 Adjusted weighted average number of shares in issue 000s diluted F 235,643 225,844 Basic earnings per share Statutory pence A C 5.5 1.4 Adjusted pence B E 11.2 6.3 Diluted earnings per share Statutory pence A D 5.4 1.4 Adjusted pence B F 11.1 6.3 Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share are based on profit attributable to equity holders of the parent plus exceptional items, share based payments, acquisition related amortisation and service costs and accretion of acquisition-related deferred consideration divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding in the Period.
Weighted average shares in the 2011 adjusted calculations are calculated as the weighted number between when the Group listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Period or year end.
In May 2012, 13,506,000 new ordinary 2 and 7 9ths pence shares were issued as part consideration for RunningBall.
Goodwill 000 Cost and Net Book Value At 1 January 2011 38,642 Additions Goal.
12,515 Spox Media GmbH and mediasports Digital GmbH 6,035 At 31 December 2011 57,192 Additions RunningBall Holding AG 82,286 Mackolik Internet Hitzmetleri Ticaret A. S. 13,578 Sportal GmbH 1,110 Arising from nalisation of acquisition accounting of Goal.
com Holdco S. A. and Spox Media Gmbh mediasports Digital GmbH 591 Retranslation of goodwill of foreign operations at closing rate 849 At 31 December 2012 153,908 As set out in the accounting policies critical judgements section the Group has only one operating segment.
Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is so allocated should both represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes: and not be larger than an operating segment as dened by paragraph 5 of IFRS 8 Operating Segments before aggregation.
As such the lowest level that goodwill is internally monitored for impairment purposes is at the level of the Groups single operating segment accordingly the Group only has one cash-generating unit CGU for impairment testing purposes.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 11.
Goodwill continued The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The Group compares the carrying amount of the unit including goodwill to the recoverable amount of the unit.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period.
These assumptions have been revised In the year in light of the current economic environment which has resulted in more conservative estimates about the future.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU.
Changes in selling prices, volumes and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group prepares cash ow forecasts for the next five years derived from the most recent financial annual budget approved by the Directors and extrapolates cash ows for the following five years based on an estimated blended growth rate of 10% 2011: 10%.
This rate does not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
In its five year forecasts the Group has, in some instances, applied growth rates signicantly in excess of that of the current economic environment because the Directors believe that the Groups success in creating value for its customers digital rights, the length and nature of its existing contracts and its international customer base will result in the Groups results improving signicantly quicker than that of the current economy.
The Group experienced underlying and adjusted EBITDA of 103% in 2012, signicantly in excess of the 10% assumed for future years and the Groups budget for 2013 which forms the basis of Year 1 of the impairment calculations assumes a high rate of growth from 2013 although not as high as 2012 see below.
The Directors recognise that such high growth is unlikely to continue to be maintained and as such consider it appropriate to apply a lower growth rate of 10% from 2014 to allow for increased competition in the areas in which the Group operates.
The Group looks out five years when conducting its impairment review and does not use any growth rates in perpetuity.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash ows is 10% 2011: 10%.
com together 1.6 million and Sportal.
After consideration by the Directors in light of the size of the acquisitions, the nature of the assets acquired, competitive benchmarking and external valuation advice received, the Directors have concluded that it was appropriate for the domain names to have an indefinite life.
94 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This conclusion was reached on the basis that the Directors consider that it is definite the internet will continue and sport and football will continue to be as popular and digitally consumed by consumers and used by the Group in a similar way to the way itis used currently.
This conclusion is reviewed, and will continue to be reviewed, at each reporting period by the Directors.
The other domain names owned by the Group Soccerway.
au were previously amortised over a period of three years.
The fair value of those domain names were not considered to be material by the directors.
The Groups indefinite life intangible assets were valued on acquisition, during 2011 and 2012, and there have been no significant changes in the inputs to these valuations or economic conditions since.
The Directors are therefore satisfied that the carrying value of these assets at least equals their recoverable amount 13.
Other intangible assets Computer software development 000 Cost At 1 January 2011 2,930 Additions 4,294 At 31 December 2011 and 1 January 2012 7,224 Additions 5,563 Foreign exchange 38 At 31 December 2012 12,749 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2011 657 Charge for the period 1,114 At 31 December 2011 and 1 January 2012 1,771 Charge for the period 2,534 Foreign exchange At 31 December 2012 4,305 Net book value At 31 December 2011 5,453 At 31 December 2012 8,444 Included within additions to computer software development in 2012 is 2,624,000 2011: 2,137,000 of internally capitalised staff costs.
Property, plant and equipment continued Assets with a present value of the minimum lease payments of nil 2011: 443,000 were acquired or sold and leased back under a finance lease arrangement during the year.
The total accumulated depreciation related to finance lease assets is 1,295,000 2011: 898,000 and accordingly the net book value at the year-end is 220,000 2011: 616,000.
Subsidiaries The principal subsidiaries of the Company, their country of incorporation, ownership of their issued, ordinary share capital and the nature of their trade are listed below: Proportion of all classes Country of of issued share capital incorporation owned by the Company Principal activity Directly owned: Perform Media Services Ltd Great Britain 100% Digital sports media Held through intermediate companies: Online advertising and Perform Media Sales Ltd Great Britain 100% sponsorshipsales Perform Media Channels Ltd Great Britain 100% Digital sports media Watchandtrade Ltd Northern Ireland 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Asia Pte Ltd Singapore 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Inc United States 100% Digital sports media Sportal Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100% Digital sports media Pangorights Ltd Great Britain 100% Digital sports media Sportal New Zealand Pty Ltd New Zealand 100% Digital sports media Sportal India Private Ltd India 100% Digital sports media Global Sports Media BV Holland 100% Digital sports media Mangalore Sports Data India Private Limited India 100% Digital sports media Premium TV Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100% Digital sports media Classic Sport Ltd Great Britain 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Services SRL Italy 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Services Germany GmBH Germany 100% Digital sports media Perform Media France SARL France 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Poland Zoo Poland 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Japan KK Japan 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Norway AS Norway 100% Digital sports media Goal.
com Holdco SA Luxembourg 100% Holding company Goal.
com North America Inc United States 100% Digital sports media Spox Media GmbH Germany 100% Digital sports media Online advertising and mediasports Digital GmbH Germany 100% sponsorshipsales Kontertaktik GmbH Germany 100% Digital sports media Sportal GmbH Germany 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Spain SL Spain 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Sweden AB Sweden 100% Digital sports media RunningBall Group Holdings AG Switzerland 100% Holding company RunningBall Invest AG Switzerland 100% Holding company RunningBall Holding AG Switzerland 100% Holding company RunningBall AG Switzerland 100% Sports data provider RunningBall Sports Information GmbH Austria 100% Sports data provider RunningBall SDN BHD Malaysia 100% Sports data provider RunningBall Services & Consulting Ltd Cyprus 100% Sports data provider RunningBall Informacao Desportiva Portugal 100% Sports data provider Mackolik Internet Hitzmetleri Ticaret A. S. Turkey 51% Digital sports media 96 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This entity, at the date these financial statements were approved, was in the process of being wound up.
The proportion of voting rights held is the same as the proportion of shares held.
Subsequent to the year-end, the following companies which the Group owns 50% of were incorporated: PFPSA Limited UK, Holdco andPFPSA BV Netherlands, Holdco.
In addition a 100% owned Canadian subsidiary, Perform Digital Media Canada Inc, was incorporated.
Trade and other receivables At 31 At 31 December December 2012 2011 000 000 Gross trade receivables 24,818 16,453 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 1,815 693 Net trade receivables 23,003 15,760 Prepayments and accrued income 27,337 8,509 50,340 24,269 Trade receivables are stated at amortised cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
The due date for trade receivables will vary depending on the jurisdiction and product but is typically between 30 and 60 days.
Trade receivables do not bear any effective interest rate.
All trade receivables are subject to credit risk exposure, however, the Group does not identify specic concentration of credit risk with regards to trade receivables, as the amount recognised consists of a large number of receivables from various customers.
The fair value of these short term financial assets is not individually determined as the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation offairvalue.
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are set out in the table below: 2012 2011 000 000 At 1 January 693 238 Provision for receivables impairment 429 327 Provision for bad debts acquired with subsidiaries 693 128 1,815 693 The creation and release of provisions for impaired receivables has been included in the Income Statement.
Amounts charged to the provision account are generally written off, when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 16.
Trade and other receivables continued Some of the unimpaired trade receivables are past due as at the reporting date.
Financial assets past due but not impaired are shown below: At 31 At 31 December December 2012 2011 000 000 Not more than three months 8,528 6,584 More than three months but not more than six months 3,363 3,801 More than six months but not more than a year 1,052 666 More than one year 716 Total 13,659 11,051 Of the 716,000 which is more than one year old, 288,000 relates to items which can be offset against corresponding items on the Groups purchase ledger.
The average credit period taken is 50 days 2011: 54 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying value of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Prepayments and accrued income balances are set out below: At 31 At 31 December December 2012 2011 000 000 Prepayments for acquiring WTA rights 2013-2016 in advance of those tournaments 13,402 Prepayments for acquiring rights to future content in advance of other future sporting events 4,559 3,540 Unbilled advertising and technology related revenues 6,206 3,927 Prepaid finance costs debt arrangement fee and foreign exchange option premium 449 General prepaid office costs 2,721 1,042 27,337 8,509 Included in the WTA rights prepayments is an invoice received for 2.7 million before the year-end relating to 2013 which was paid in 2013 and at the year-end was included within prepayments and trade creditors.
The amount paid in 2012 in respect of WTA rights was 10.7 million.
Movements in prepayments and accrued income are set out below: At 31 At 31 December December 2012 2011 000 000 At 1 January 8,509 5,617 Prepayments for acquiring WTA rights 2013-2016 in advance of those tournaments 13,402 Prepayments for acquiring rights to future content in advance of other future sporting events 31,701 28,829 Release of prepayments to profit or loss relating to rights for content of sporting events 30,682 27,654 Unbilled advertising and technology revenues 6,206 3,927 Transfer of unbilled advertising and technology balances to trade debtors cash 3,927 1,832 Prepaid finance costs debt arrangement fee and foreign exchange option premium 449 Net movement in office costs prepayments 1,679 378 At 31 December 27,337 8,509 98 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17.
Cash and cash equivalents At 31 At 31 December December 2012 2011 000 000 Cash 33,605 75,356 Restricted cash 507 33,605 75,863 The restricted cash related to a security deposit which was under charge to the Groups credit card payment service provider to support the acceptance of credit card payments from customers of the Group and its clients.
Cash was held in a variety of interest bearing accounts.
Trade and other payables At 31 At 31 December December 2012 2011 000 000 Trade payables 18,076 16,369 Accruals, deferred income and other creditors 25,722 20,103 Amounts owed under finance leases 181 307 43,979 36,779 The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 52 days 2011: 42 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
Deferred consideration and associated acquisition related liabilities The following table summarises and reconciles acquisition related deferred consideration recorded in the financial statements and includes the Groups estimated future dividend payments to the owners of the non-controlling interest in Mackolik : Recognised Unwind of on discount acquisition applied to Service At 1 or reFV initial related At 31 Due in Due in January measured liability charge Payment FX December 1 year 1 year 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 RunningBall 40,552 327 40,22540,225 Mackolik 20,852 1,178 24 22,054 2,097 19,957 WatchandTrade 4,892 387 143 5,136 2,189 2,947 Spox 3,547 300 293 126 4,014 1,478 2,536 8,439 61,704 1,858 24 143 453 71,429 45,989 25,440 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 19.
Deferred consideration and associated acquisition related liabilities continued Refer to note 28 for further information on the above acquisitions.
The table below sets out the Directors best estimates of the undiscounted payments the Group anticipates paying and the years the payments for deferred consideration are expected to be made: Total expected Total acquisition Amounts expected related paid in future payments 2011 and payments including Total deal 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 201316 to date cap 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 16,346 cash 47,622 RunningBall equity 40,225 40,225 104,193 104,193 Mackolik 14,4761,047  WatchandTrade 875 2,189 3,336 5,525 6,400 6,400 Spox 3,079 1,000 1,200 2,400 4,600 7,679 13,333 82,398 44,461 4,536 2,400 23,100 74,497 156,895 198,926 Excludes dividend payments to shareholders of non-controlling interests in Mackolik in 2013-2016.
Borrowings At 31 At 31 December December 2012 2011 000 000 Current borrowings 5,533 5,534 Non-current borrowings 1,392 6.926 6,925 12,460 The acquisition of Goal.
co Holdco S. A. was funded, in part, by the full drawndown of a 17 million term loan facility Old Facility A provided by the Bank of Ireland plc which Perform Media Services Ltd entered into on 17 February 2011.
In May 2012 the balance of Old Facility A 11,300,000 was converted into a new term loan facility of 11,300,000 Facility A which was provided to Perform Media Services Ltd.
This new facility was provided by Bank of Ireland plc and Royal Bank of Scotland plc who also provided Perform Group plc and Perform Media Services Ltd an additional 30 million term loan facility Facility B and a 20 million multi-currency revolving credit facility Facility C together the New Facilities.
Together Facilities A, B and C form the Facilities Agreement.
Facility A bears interest at a rate equal to the aggregate of LIBOR plus a margin of 3.5%.
A commitment fee is payable on Facilities B and C to the extent they remain undrawn.
Two thirds of the interest rate of Facility A and B is required to be hedged.
Neither Facility B nor Facility C were drawn down at 31 December 2012 although the Group expects to draw down both in March 2013.
The Facilities Agreement requires the Borrower to comply with certain financial covenants.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as it borrows funds at oating rate interest rates.
The Group is required to hedge at least two-thirds of the loan via an interest rate swap hedging oating rate interest for xed rate interest.
The interest rate swap settles on a quarterly basis.
Aoating rate of LIBOR plus 3.5% premium is swapped to a xed rate of 1.94% plus 3.5% premium.
The Directors do not consider that this derivative had a material value at either 31 December 2011 or 2012.
Facility A is being repaid in equal installments of 1,416,667 the first installment was in June 2012 and on each subsequent quarter date.
Facility A must be repaid by no later than 31 March 2014.
In the event Facilities B and or C are drawn down, they must be repaid by May 2016 atthelatest.
The amounts provided above are net of fees paid to the banks.
Of these fees, 410,000 were offset against the loan on inception of Old Facility A and these are being amortised to the income statement over the length of the loan.
The carrying value of the fees at 31 December 2012 is 162,000.
The arrangement fee for the New Facilities was 544,000.
Of this, 272,000 was paid on arrangement and the remaining 272,000 will be payable when the facility is drawn-down on for the first time.
These fees will be amortised over the length of time the facilities are available to the Group.
100 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21.
Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks.
The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to capital risk, foreign exchange rates, interest rate risks, the risk of default by counter-parties to financial transactions and the availability of funds to meet business needs.
Theserisks are managed as described below.
The Groups risk management is co-ordinated at its headquarters, in close cooperation with the board of Directors, and focuses on actively securing the Groups short to medium term cash ows by minimising the exposure to financial markets.
The Group does not actively engage in the trading of financial assets for speculative purposes.
The most significant financial risks to which the Group is exposed are described below.
Capital risk The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns whilst having enough capital to continue its acquisition strategy, sustain future product development.
The Group will continue to seek to maximise the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance although this is a longer term aspiration.
The Groups overall strategy has not changed in the last year.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 20 after deducting cash and cash equivalents, and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
The primary reason for the Group to raise debt or equity is to finance its acquisitions.
The Groups Directors review the capital structure on an ad-hoc basis and do consider the impact any acquisitions and how it is nanced has on the Groups capital structure before completing any acquisition or nancing.
As part of this review the Board considers the cost ofcapital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
The Group had a gearing ratio of 4% at 31 December 2012 2011: 10%.
The ratio has decreased as the Group has continued to repay its term loan and during 2012 issued shares to part fund the acquisition of RunningBall.
The gearing ratio will increase to over 20% in 2013 when the Group draws down on its bank facilities to satisfy the contingent consideration in respect of the RunningBall acquisition.
The gearing ratio at the year-end is as follows: At 31 At 31 December December 2012 2011 000 000 Debt 6,925 12,460 Equity 170,507 127,962 Debt to equity ratio 4% 10% Debt is dened as long and short term borrowings and equity includes all capital and reserves of the Group that are managed as capital.
Due to the current fast growth and acquisitive nature of the Group, the Group does not currently have a long-term target gearing ratio although the Groups preference is for future significant acquisitions to be nanced by equity rather than debt.
The Group also has no current policy astothe level of equity capital and other reserves other than to address statutory requirements.
The Group currently does not envisage paying a dividend in the short term, consistent with its intentions as set out when it listed.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 21.
Financial risk management continued Currency risk The table below shows the extent to which the Group has monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than their local currency: Other Euro US Dollar currencies Total 000 000 000 000 2012 Financial assets 22,714 9,209 2,252 34,175 Financial liabilities 8,394 5,462 2084 15,940 Total exposure 14,320 3,747 168 18,235 2011 Financial assets 11,125 4,673 2,365 18,163 Financial liabilities 9,055 5,435 1,936 16,426 Total exposure 2,070 762 429 1,737 Exposures to currency exchange rates arise from the Groups retranslation of its foreign subsidiaries as well as the Groups overseas sales and purchases, which are primarily denominated in euros and US dollars.
The following table illustrates the sensitivity of the net result for the year and equity with regard to the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities and the euro sterling exchange rate and the US dollar sterling rate.
It assumes a - 10% movement in each exchange rate onboth years These percentages have been determined based on the average market volatility in exchange rates in the previous 12 months.
If sterling had weakened by 10% then this would have had the following impact: 2012 2011 Euro US Dollar Euro US Dollar 000 000 000 000 Net profit 1,297 340 842 137 Equity 2,888 756 612 222 If sterling had strengthened by 10% then this would have had the following impact: 2012 2011 Euro US Dollar Euro US Dollar 000 000 000 000 Net profit 1,061 278 689 112 Equity 2,363 619 501 181 The Groups objective when managing currency risk is to ensure that changes in exchange rates would not have a material impact on the Group.
The Groups policy is to review the level of revenues and costs denominated in various key currencies and to naturally hedge wherever possible.
Where this is not possible and a currency risk is forecast the Directors strategy is to acquire forward options to mitigate the level of risk.
In addition to the monetary assets and liabilities set out above the Group has acquisition related liabilities which will be settled in foreign currencies.
The contingent consideration for RunningBall 40.2 million is 49.6 million, the contingent consideration for Spox 4.0 million is 4.9 million and the contingent consideration for Mackolik 22.1 million is 63.0 million Turkish Lira.
If at the year-end sterling was 10% stronger profit and equity would increase by 6 million.
If at the year-end sterling was 10% weaker, profit and equity would decrease by 7million.
In December 2012, just prior to the year-end, the Group entered into a vanilla option which gave the Group the right but not the obligation to sell 2.0 million euro and buy sterling at a FX rate of 1.25 at each of the following settlement dates: 26 April 2013, 29 May 2013, 26 June 2013, 29 July 2013, 28 August 2013, 26 September 2013, 29 October 2013, 27 November 2013 and 27 December 2013.
The cost of this option was 264,000.
The fair value of this option at the year-end was 220,000.
The 45,000 impairment has been recorded as a finance cost in the Income Statement and the fair value of the liability has been recorded as a current liability at 31 December 2012.
No forward contracts were put in place during 2011 or were outstanding at the year-end.
102 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as it borrows funds at oating rate interest rates.
Aoating rate of LIBOR plus 3.5% premium is swapped to a xed rate of 1.94% plus 3.5% margin.
The Directors donotconsider that this derivative had a material value at either 31 December 2011 or 2012.
The Groups hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align them with interest rate views and dened risk appetite, ensuring the most appropriate hedging strategies are applied.
If interest rates had been 3% higher lower and all other values were held constant, the Groups profit for the year ended 31 December 2012 would decrease increase by 0.4 million due to the Groups exposure to oating interest rates.
Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral where appropriate as a means ofmitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The Group uses publicly available financial information and its own trading records to assess the creditworthiness of counterparties.
The Group continually monitors its exposure to counterparties and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved counterparties.
Cash held by counterparty is presented to the board on a monthly basis.
The credit risk on these funds is limited because the counter-parties arebanks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas.
Cash balances are held across a number of banks, the Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The Group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
Concentration of credit risk to any counterparty did not exceed 3% of gross monetary assets atany time during the year.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is managed by short and long term cash ow forecasts.
Sufficient cash reserves are held to maintain short term exibility.
As at 31 December 2012 and 2011, the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities have contractual maturities including interest payments where applicable as summarised below: Current within Current 6 to Non-current Non-current later 6 months 12 months 1 to 5 years than 5years 31 December 2012 000 000 000 000 Trade payables 18,076 Borrowings 2,978 2,913 1,431 Amounts owed under finance leases 97 84 21,151 2,997 1,431 Deferred consideration 45,989 25,440 67,140 2,997 26,871 Current within Current 6 to Non-current Non-current later 6 months 12 months 1 to 5 years than 5years 31 December 2011 000 000 000 000 Trade payables 16,369 Borrowings 2,767 2,767 6,926 Amounts owed under finance leases 168 309 193 Deferred consideration 150 19,454 3,076 7,119 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 22.
Deferred tax 2012 2011 000 000 Deferred tax movement At 1 January 5,515 7,835 Acquisition of subsidiaries 8,952 3,125 Charge credit to income statement 1,142 728 Other 212 77 At 31 December 4,367 5,515 At 31 At 31 December December Analysis of deferred tax liability asset 2012 2011 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 1,759 914 Share-based payments 695 1,231 Losses 4,105 6,187 Acquisition intangibles 10,926 2,817 Total 4,367 5,515 In addition to the amounts set out above the Group has an unrecognised deferred tax asset at 31 December 2012 of 1.3 million 2011: 1.3 million relating to capital allowances.
Non-current finance lease obligations At 31 At 31 December December 2012 2011 000 000 Amounts due under finance leases 193 24.
Share capital At 31 At 31 December December 2012 2011 000 000 Issued Ordinary Shares of 2 and 7 9ths pence each 6,635 6,260 6,635 6,260 At 31 At 31 December December 2011 2010 nos.
Issued Ordinary Shares of 2 and 7 9ths pence each 238,882 225,376 238,882 225,376 In May 2012, 13,506,000 new ordinary 2 and 7 9ths pence shares were issued as part consideration for RunningBall.
On 18 March 2011 the Company re-registered from a private limited company to a public limited company.
104 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Following a resolution of the Company passed on 7 April 2011 which took effect immediately prior to the Listing of the Companys securities on the main market of the London Stock Exchange: each of the Companys A Ordinary Shares were subdivided, reclassied and redesignated as 36 new Ordinary Shares: each of the Companys B Ordinary Shares were subdivided, reclassied and redesignated as 36 new Ordinary Shares: each holding of the existing Preference Shares were consolidated into one preference share: these Preference Shares were subdivided, reclassied and redesignated into, in aggregate, 21,132,432 new Ordinary Shares and 1,380,354,048 deferred shares of 2 7 9ths pence each in the capital of the Company: and the Company allotted a further 28.0 million Ordinary Shares of 2 and 7 9ths pence each.
Following the share re-organisation and Listing the Companys share capital comprised 225,376,072 new Ordinary Shares of 2 and 7 9ths pence.
The Company received proceeds, net of bank fees and costs, of 69.7 million.
On 21 June 2011 the Company cancelled, at no cost, all of the deferred shares created on Listing.
The deferred shares did not entitle the holders to any dividends or distribution and were only able to be transferred by the Company.
A capital redemption reserve of 38.3 million was created as a result.
Other reserves At 31 At 31 December December 2011 2012 re-stated 000 000 1 January 4,892 Debit to reserve in respect of WatchandTrade Limited transaction with shareholder 4,892 Debit to reserve in respect of Mackolik 49% acquisition 19,805 31 December 24,697 4,892 26.
Share-based payments A total charge of 3,246,000 2011: 5,122,000 relating to the Groups share-based payment schemes has been included in the IncomeStatement.
Growth Securities Ownership Plan GSOP In March 2010, the Board put in place a Growth Securities Ownership Plan the GSOP.
Under the GSOP, certain key non-shareholding employees were given the opportunity to purchase a financial instrument which tracked the Groups enterprise value, dened as market capitalisation for these purposes, over a set period, being the period ending 12 months after the occurrence of an exit event.
21 senior employees none of whom is a Director held a total of 35 units under the plan.
The terms of the GSOP provided for cash payments, on a pro-rata basis, by the Company to participants, subject to such participants continued employment at the Group at the date payable, if the Companys enterprise value at the end of the relevant period exceeded a oor amount.
The amount payable to participants increased up to a maximum aggregate amount of 6 million which was payable if the Companys enterprise value at such time is not less than 450 million.
The Admission to the London Stock Exchange Admission constituted an exit event under the scheme.
The Group paid the maximum amount of 6 million to the participants in May 2012.
The fair values of the financial instruments entered into under this scheme were calculated and were purchased by the participants at this price.
Inaccordance with IFRS 2, the Group has recognised a charge of 1,228,000 in 2012 and 4,770,000 in 2011 in respect of this cash settled scheme.
No further charges or payments will be made under the plan.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 26.
Share-based payments continued Performance Share Plan PSP The Group has put in place a Performance Share Plan PSP to provide long-term incentives to Executive Directors and Senior Management of the Group.
Share awards made under the PSP are based on a percentage of salary and the share price the date before the date of grant and are subject to a matrix of non-market based performance targets including annual compound growth of the Groups revenues and adjusted earnings per share over a three year performance period.
Award 24 June 2011 An award made in June 2011 is measured over a performance period to 31 December 2013 with awards vesting in June 2014 subject to continued employment.
In the event that all the performance criteria are met, a maximum number of 1,400,000 shares will vest.
The fair value of each award is 2.19 calculated by reference to the closing market price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
None of the awards lapsed during either 2012 or 2011.
Based on the Groups current forecast, Management expect that 100% of the shares will vest and management expect that 5% of participants will leave before the awards vest.
At the previous year-end Management expected 65% of the awards would vest.
As such a true-up charge has been recognised in the current year.
As such, and In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has recognised a charge including true-up of 1,242,000 2011: 352,000 in respect of this equity settled scheme.
Award March 2012 An award made in March 2012 is measured over a performance period to 31 December 2014 with awards vesting in March 2015 subject to continued employment.
In the event that all the performance criteria are met, a maximum number of 1,500,000 shares will vest.
The fair value of each award is 3.03 calculated by reference to the closing market price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
None of the awards lapsed during the year.
Based on the Groups three year forecasts, Management expect that 65% of the shares will vest and 5% of participants will leave before the awards vest.
In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has recognised a charge of 747,000 2011: nil in respect of this equity settled scheme.
Award September 2012 An award made in September 2012 is measured over a performance period to 31 December 2014 with awards vesting in September 2015 subject to continued employment.
In the event that all the performance criteria are met, a maximum number of 100,000 shares will vest.
Thefairvalue of each award is 3.74 calculated by reference to the closing market price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
None ofthe awards lapsed during the year.
Based on the Groups three year forecasts, Management expect that 65% of the shares will vest and5%ofparticipants will leave before the awards vest.
In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has recognised a charge of 28,000 2011: nil in respect of this equity settled scheme.. 27.
Non-controlling interests At 31 At 31 December December 2012 2011 000 000 Sportal Australia Pty Ltd 189 Mackolik Internet Hitzmetleri Ticaret A. S. 1,487 Other 1 39 1,488 150 106 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
Acquisitions Acquisitions have been accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting.
The goodwill arising on these acquisitions will be subject toanannual impairment review.
RunningBall Holding AG RunningBall In May 2012 the Group acquired RunningBall Holding AG via the acquisition of RunningBalls two immediate holding companies for 120 million.
The Group acquired RunningBall as the Directors belived that combining the Group with RunningBall would signicantly enhance the Groups strong growth prospects by combining RunningBalls data with Goals and other owned portals strong editional and video content to increase user traffic and hence revenue on match days and by enhancing existing betting related products and cross selling to existing customers.
Initial consideration of 70 million consisted of 20 million in cash, nanced from existing cash resources, and 50 million in the form of13.5million new ordinary shares in the Company which were issued to the sellers.
The number of issue shares was based on the average closing mid market price of the Groups ordinary shares and the average closing mid-point sterling euro exchange rate over the 30 trading days preceding 15 May 2012.
The fair value of the 13.5 million new ordinary shares issued was calculated based on the bid price at the date ofacquisition.
A merger relief reserve has been created to record the excess over nominal value on the issue of the shares in relation to the acquisition.
Contingent consideration of 50 million will be paid in 2013 entirely in cash and will be nanced both from existing cash reserves and by drawing down the new debt facilities agreed with Bank of Ireland plc and Royal Bank of Scotland plc see note 20.
Total consideration will be based on a nine times multiple applied to the audited EBITDA of RunningBall for the year ended 31 December 2012 the Earn-out Period.
Whilst the selling shareholders have been retained on a consultancy basis the contingent payment is not dependent oneither employment or continuing service and as such consider it to be directly linked to the acquisition and not to post combination service.
In addition a payment of 2 million was made in August 2012 for excess working capital and cash acquired.
The following table sets out the bookvalues of the identiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value to the Group at the acquisition date: Book value Fair value Fair value on acquisition adjustments to the Group 000 000 000 Non current assets Intangible assets 840 29,051 29,891 Property, plant and equipment 431 431 Current assets Trade and other receivables 2,481 402 2,079 Shareholder loan 6,113 6,113 Cash and cash equivalents 2,630 2,630 Total assets 12,495 22,105 34,600 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 1,838 1,502 3,340 Deferred tax liability 144 7,174 7,318 Total liabilities 1,982 8,676 10,658 Net assets acquired 10,513 13,429 23,942 Goodwill arising 82,286 Fair value of total consideration 106,228 The fair value of consideration is comprised of: 000 Initial cash consideration 16,346 Payment for excess working capital and cash acquired 1,708 Issue of equity 47,622 Contingent cash consideration 40,552 Fair value of total consideration 106,228 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 28.
Acquisitions continued Fair value adjustments relate primarily to the following: Elimination of intangible assets 0.8 million and tangible assets 0.4 million that were replaced as part of the acquisition accounting process Recognition of an intangible asset for software valued at 17.4 million using a cost approach.
The software will be written off over 10 years.
Recognition of an intangible asset for customer relationships valued at 10.5 million using an excess-earnings method.
The customer relationships will be written off over 12 years.
Recognition of other intangibles which together are valued at 2.0 million and will be written off over 10-12 years.
Deferred tax liabilities in relation to the recognised acquisition intangibles totaling 7.2 million which will be written off over the corresponding periods to those set out above.
In addition a shareholder loan of 6.1 million was repaid by the sellers on completion.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is largely attributable to the anticipated synergies created by the highly complementary businessactivities.
None of this goodwill is deductible for tax purposes.
The Groups results for the Period include post acquisition revenue of 10 million and a profit after tax of 5 million.
Had RunningBall been acquired on 1 January 2012 it would have contributed revenue and statutory profit after tax for the year of approximately 18 million and 8 million respectively.
Mackolik Internet Hitzmetleri Ticaret A. S. Mackolik On 30 June 2012 the Group acquired an initial 51% stake in Mackolik for cash consideration of 40.8 million Turkish Lira 14.5 million based on an agreed ten times multiple calculation of the full year forecast EBITDA results of the business for the year ending 31 December 2012.
Thisinitial payment was made out of the Groups existing cash resources and will be adjusted if audited EBITDA for 2012 is higher or lower than the current forecast of 8 million Turkish Lira.
The Directors estimate at the date of signing these accounts based on draft EBITDA numbers submitted by Mackolik is that an additional payment of 1,047,000 will be required to be made.
This payment is not dependent on any continuing service oremployment provisions.
A payment of approximately 1 million was also made in September 2012 for excess working capital and cashacquired.
Whilst the Sale and Purchase Agreement contains a forward contract to enable the Group to acquire the remaining 49% interest, the Directors have judged that this does not result in a 100% acquisition on the acquisition date.
The sellers of the 49% interest remain exposed to the risks and rewards ofownership until these shares are acquired by the Group and accordingly the acquisition has been accounted for as a step acquisition.
Consequently a 0.2 million service charge will be recognised in the Income Statement over the period from acquisition till the date of payment in 2016.
The Directors will re-assess their estimation of the final payment and any future differences will be charged or credited to the income statement.
The maximum amount of the future payment is 59.4 million.
These contractual dividend payments represent an obligation to make payments to the shareholders and accordingly the present value of the expected future payments has been recorded as a liability with a corresponding entry recognised directly in 108 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS equity.
The liability will be remeasured at each reporting date with any subsequent amendments being recognised as a service charge through the Income Statement.
The Directors current best estimate of the undiscounted cash flows is approximately 6.0 million and discounted is 5.0 million.
In addition the Sale and Purchase Agreement contains a provision which allows the shareholders to re-purchase the 51% in the event the Group does not purchase the non-controlling interest.
The Directors believe that the remaining differential represents a discount on the fair value accepted by the sellers of the 51% stake, who have exited the business, in order to receive cash consideration upon disposal of 51% of their shares and to reduce any on-going ownership risk.
The following table sets out the book values of the identiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value at the acquisition date: Book value Fair value Fair value on acquisition adjustments to the Group 000 000 000 Non current assets Intangible assets 86,781 6,789 Property, plant and equipment 9 9 Current assets Trade and other receivables 776 132 644 Shareholder loan 1,112 1,112 Cash and cash equivalents 405 405 Total assets 2,310 5,528 7,838 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 298 1,743 2,041 Deferred tax liability 1,663 1,663 Total liabilities 298 3,406 3,704 Net assets acquired 2,012 2,122 4,134 Initial cash consideration 14,476 Deferred consideration in respect of initial 51% acquisition 1,047 Payment for excess working capital and cash acquired 1,176 Non controlling interest 1,013 Goodwill arising 13,578 Fair value adjustments relate primarily to the following: Recognition of an intangible asset for customer relationships valued at 3.8 million using an excess-earnings method.
These relationships willbewritten off over nine years.
Recognition of an intangible asset for the domain names of the acquired websites, valued at 1.6 million, using the relief from royalty method.
The domain names have an indefinite life.
Recognition of an intangible asset for the software and database which together were valued at 1.4 million and are written off over nine years.
In addition a shareholder loan of 1.1 million was repaid by the sellers on completion.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is largely attributable to the anticipated synergies created by the highly complementary business activities.
The acquisition enables the Group to increase its scale and reach in the Turkish digital sports media market in addition to realising technology cost synergies.
None of the goodwill is tax deductible.
The non-controlling interest was measured based on the book value of the identiable net assets at acquisition.
The Groups results for the Period include post acquisition revenue of 2,500,000 and a profit after tax of 1,500,000.
Had Mackolik been acquired on 1 January 2012 it would have contributed revenue and statutory profit after tax for the Period of approximately 4 million and2,400,000 respectively.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 28.
Acquisitions continued Sportal GmbH Sportal.
fide On 5 September 2012 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Sportal GmBH for a total acquisition price of 1.2 million plus 0.2 million to repay a shareholder loan.
The following table sets out the book values of the identiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value to the Group at the acquisition date: Book value Fair value Fair value on acquisition adjustments to the Group 000 000 000 Non current assets Intangible assets 6693 699 Property, plant and equipment 4 4 Current assets Trade and other receivables 57 53 4 Cash and cash equivalents 95 95 Total assets 162 636 798 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 275 516 791 Deferred tax liability 175 175 Total liabilities 275 691 966 Net liabilities acquired 113 55 168 Goodwill arising 1,110 Fair value of total consideration 943 The fair value adjustments relate principally to the recognition of acquisition intangibles and related deferred tax liabilities in respect of the domain name and associated trademarks, customer relationships and software and content.
The domain name will not be amortised as it is considered to have an indefinite life whilst thecustomer relationships, software and content will all be amortised over three years.
Spox Media GmbH and mediasports Digital GmbH In December 2011 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Spox Media GmbH Spox and mediasports Digital GmbH msd for initial consideration of 3,650,000.
Contingent consideration of up to 12,350,000 is payable based on the combined results of Spox and msd forthe years to 31 December 2012, 2013 and 2014 the Earn-out Period.
The Directors best estimate of the discounted fair value contingent consideration at 31 December 2012 is 4,014,000.
The discount 10% applied is being unwound through the Income Statement over theEarn-out Period.
The contingent consideration is payable to the previous private equity owners and four other individuals, only two of whom are continuing toprovide post-combination services.
110 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following table sets out the book values of the identiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value to the Group at the acquisitiondate: Book value Fair value Fair value on acquisition adjustment to the Group 000 000 000 Non-current assets: Intangible assets 745 1,980 2,725 Property, plant and equipment 88 88 Current assets: Trade and other receivables 961 81 880 Cash 598 598 Total assets 2,392 1,811 4,203 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 2,801 262 3,063 Deferred tax liability 706 706 Total liabilities 2,801 968 3,769 Net assets acquired 409 843 434 Goodwill arising 6,492 Fair value of total consideration 6,926 Fair value adjustments relate primarily to the following: elimination of intangible assets 0.7 million and tangible assets 0.1 million that were replaced as part of the acquisition accounting process.
recognition of an intangible asset for the domain name and associated trademarks, valued at 1.8 million, using the relief from royalty method whichreects the discounted future cash ows saved from not incurring royalty payments.
The doman name has an indefinite life.
recognition of customer relationships, website architecture and content archives which in total are valued at 1.0 million.
These amounts willbewritten off over three years.
The goodwil arising on the acquisition is largely attributable to the anticipated synergies created by the highly complementary business activities.
The acquisition enables the Group to increase its scale and reach in the German digital sports media market in addition to realising technology cost synergies.
The fair value of consideration is comprised of: 000 Initial cash consideration 3,079 Contingent cash consideration 3,847 6,926 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 28.
On 18 February 2011 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Goal.
com Holdco S. A. for a total acquisition price of US $30 million.
Theacquisition was funded, in part, with a 17 million term loan facility.
The following table sets out the book values of the identiable assets and liabilities acquired and their provisional fair value to the Group attheacquisition date: Book Acquisition value on related Fair value Fair value acquisition adjustments adjustments to the Group 000 000 000 000 Non-current assets: Intangible assets 5,971 5,971 9,331 9,331 Property, plant and equipment 9 9 Current assets: Trade and other receivables 641 216 425 Cash 26 26 Total assets 6,647 5,980 9,115 9,782 Current liabilities: Deferred tax liability 2,426 2,426 Trade and other payables 1,239 646 1,885 Non-current liabilities Loans and other borrowings 1,734 1,734 Total liabilities 2,973 1,734 3,072 4,311 Net assets acquired 3,674 4,246 6,043 5,471 Goodwill arising 12,643 Fair value of total consideration 18,114 Net cash outows in respect of the acquisition comprised: Gross cash consideration 18,114 Cash acquired 42 18,072 Acquisition related adjustments relate to the elimination of intangible assets which were replaced as part of the acquisition accounting process and nancing-related adjustments arising on the transaction.
Fair value adjustments relate principally to the recognition of the following acquisition intangibles and related deferred tax liabilities: the domain name and associated trademarks, valued at 8 million using the relief from royalty method, which reects the discounted future cashows saved from not incurring royalty payments.
The domain name has an indefinite life.
customer relationships, valued at 0.75 million, using the excess earnings valuation method, with a deduction for contributory assets.
The customer relationships will be amortised over three years.
software and content related intangible assets, which together are valued at 0.5 million.
The software and content assets will be amortised overthree years.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Goal.
The acquisition has enabled the Group to increase its scale andreach in the digital sports market in addition to realising technology cost synergies and improving global advertising sales.
Global Sports Media BV On 9 January 2009 the Group acquired 51% of the shares in Global Sports Media BV, a Dutch company which owns and runs the Soccerway.
com sports information website and provides sports statistics and data to a wide range of international customers.
The Group excercised its option to acquire the remaining 49% of shares in December 2011 for 4.3 million.
112 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WatchandTrade Ltd In December 2011 the Group acquired the remaining 40% of shares non-controlling interest of WatchandTrade Limited for a cash payment of 550,000 with additional consideration based on the annual results of WatchandTrade over the period to 31 December 2013.
The original 2009 agreement contained an option for the Group to acquire the noncontrolling interest by paying additional consideration based on the results of WatchandTrade or with a xed payment of 5 million by December 2011.
The Group have recognised a liability for the fair value of the contingent consideration as at 31 December 2011of 4.8 million in accordance with IAS 32 and 39 with an offsetting adjustment to equity in accordance with IAS 27 as the Directors believe that these payments are consideration for acquiring the non-controlling interest.
The financial liability will be subsequently measured and any changes arising from either the timing or the amount of the liability will be recognised in the Income Statement as a finance charge in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39.
The Directors believe that IAS 27 applies to the contingent payments and as such have not considered it necessary to develop an alternative accounting policy by reference to other accounting standards.
However, as the directors consider the estimated fair value of the payments under the 2011 agreement is not materially different from the 2009 agreement, that wasnt contingent on future service, the Directors believe the treatment adopted is appropriate.
In the event that the payments become or the Directors believe will become materially different from the estimated fair value of payments under the 2009 contract, the Group will recognise this cost as a charge above operating profit within the Income Statement.
Sportal On 29 July 2009 the Group acquired 66% of the shares in Sportal Australia Pty Ltd, an Australian company which owns and runs the Sportal.
au sports website and provides sports data and website and mobile solutions to a wide range of customers to Australia.
Acontractual commitment was also made to acquire the remaining shareholding in three tranches in 2010, 2011 and 2012.
Accordingly, in2010, 2011 and 2012 the Group acquired an additional 33% 11% in each year of the shares in Sportal for 314,000, 311,000 and 316,000 respectively.
Commitments under finance leases Within 1 to 5 After 1 year years 5 years Total 000 000 000 000 2012 Lease payments 202 202 Future finance charges 21 21 Net present values 181 181 2011 Lease payments 354 214 568 Future finance charges 47 21 68 Net present values 307 193 500 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group nancialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 30.
Commitments a Operating leases At the balance sheet date, the Group had total outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 Within one year 1,599 892 In the second to fifth years inclusive 931 1,092 After five years 62 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for office property and computer equipment costs.
b Rights commitments At 31 December 2012 the Group had commitments to acquire sports content rights of 84 million 2011: 101 million of which 43 million 2011:39 million isdue in the next year and the remaining 41 million 2011: 62 million is due in the next two to five years.
c Acquisition related commitments The Group has a contractual commitment to pay contingent consideration in 2013, 2014 and 2015 in relation to the acquisitions of RunningBall, Spox and msd as well as WatchandTrade and Mackolik.
Refer to notes 1 and 28 or further details.
Related parties There are no additional related party transactions to disclose.
Contingent liabilities There were no contingent liabilities at the year end 2011: nil.
Subsequent events Subsequent to the year-end, on 4 March 2013, the Group completed the acquisition of Voetbalzone B. V. Voetbalzone for initial consideration of 2 million.
Additional contingent consideration of 10,500,000 is payable based on the EBITDA of Voetbalzone for the years to 31 December 2013, 2014 and 2015.
The Group will disclose the book value of the identiable assets and liabilities and their value in the Groups interim results for the six months to 30 June 2013 and in its 2013 financial statements.
114 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
