0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ, 1 T 1FSGPSNBODF PWFSOBODF 'JOBODJBMT 0UIFS JOGPSNBUJPO PUFT UP UIF 'JOBODJBM 4UBUFNFOUT DPOUJOVFE $SJUJDBM BDDPVOUJOH KVEHFNFOUT BOE LFZ TPVSDFT PG FTUJNBUJPO VODFSUBJOUZ DPOUJOVFEBOE BOE XPSL JO QSPHSFTT Valuations which include an estimation of costs to complete and remaining revenues are carried out at regular intervals throughout the year, during which site development costs are allocated between units built in the current year and those to bebuilt in future years.
These assessments include a degree of inherent uncertainty when estimating the profitability of a site and in assessing any impairment provisions which may be required.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group conducted a review of inventories in the light of the challenging UK housing market.
This resulted in a net reversal of previous write downs of inventory carrying values of 13.3m.
During the year ended 31December 2012, the Group conducted further reviews of the net realisable value of its inventory carrying values which resulted in a further net reversal of theprevious write downs of inventories of 2.8m.
The reviews were conducted on asite by site basis, using valuations that incorporated selling price and development cost movements, based onlocal management and the Boardsassessment of market conditions existing at the balance sheet date.
Ifthere are significant movements in UK house prices or development costs beyond managements expectations then further impairments reversals of previous write downs of land and work in progress may be necessary.
PPEXJMM The impairment testing of goodwill is substantially dependent upon the ability of the Group to successfully progress its strategic land holdings.
The assumptions on which this estimate is based may beundermined by any significant changes inthecurrent planning regime, or adverse economic conditions in the United Kingdom.
Thecarrying amount of goodwill atthe balance sheet date was 184.5mwith an impairment of 6.1m recognised during the year.
#SBOE JOUBOHJCMFT The intangible brand assets have been assessed against the discounted cash flows arising.
These are based upon estimated returns from the related businesses, which may be impacted by various factors, most notably Government social housing policy andfurther deterioration in the economic conditions in the United Kingdom.
The carrying amount of indefinite life brands at the balance sheet date was 60.0m, with no impairment recognised during the year ended 31 December 2012.
"""WBJMBCMF GPS TBMF OBODJBM BTTFUT Available for sale financial assets principally comprise loans granted aspart of sales transactions that are secured by way of a second legalcharge on the respective property."
Asset valuation and impairment allowances are determined on a portfolio basis which takes into account factors such as the length of time that the loan has been outstanding, market conditions, including those in respect of house price inflation, forced sale discount and probability of borrower default.
The variables used are kept under regular review to ensure that as far as possible they reflect current economic circumstances: however changes in house prices, redemption dates, interest rates, unemployment levels and bankruptcy trends in the UK could result in actual returns differing from reported valuations.
At 31 December 2012 the asset recognised on the balance sheet was 202.9m 2011:164.0m.
1FOTJPOT The Directors have employed the services of a qualified, independent actuary in assessing pension liabilities.
However, they recognise that final liabilities and asset returns may differ from actuarial estimates and therefore the ultimate pension liability may differ from that included in the financial statements.
OWFTUNFOU JO TVCTJEJBSJFT Investments in subsidiaries are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, which is dependent upon management assessment of future trading activity and is therefore subject to a degree of inherent uncertainty.
The carrying amount of investments in the Companys balance sheet is 3,205.7m 2011: 3,205.7m.
1SJODJQBM BDUJWJUJFT The Groups operating segments, which were North, Central and South Divisions have similar economic characteristics, products, construction processes and types of customers, and meet the aggregation criteria of IFRS 8 in full.
Consequently, the Group has aggregated its geographic operations into one reportable segment which is housebuilding in the United Kingdom.
