"0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ, 1 T 1FSGPSNBODF PWFSOBODF 'JOBODJBMT 0UIFS JOGPSNBUJPO Notes to the Financial Statements 'PS UIF ZFBS FOEFE %FDFNCFS ""EPQUJPO PG OFX BOE SFWJTFE OUFSOBUJPOBM 'JOBODJBM 3FQPSUJOH 4UBOEBSET '34T BOE OUFSQSFUBUJPOT '3 $T The following revised IFRSs have been adopted in these consolidated financial statements."
The application of these revised IFRSs has not had any material impact on the amounts reported for the current or prior years but may affect the accounting for future transactions or arrangements.
Other new standards and interpretations have no significant impact on the Group: r Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets.
Introduces a presumption that for any asset valued using the fair value model in IAS 40 Investment Property, the carrying amount will be recovered through sale, rather than use, for deferred tax measurement purposes.
No assets held by the Group at 31 December 2012 are valued inthis way.
r Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets.
Requires additional disclosures around transfers of financial assets including any risks that remain with an entity which has transferred any such asset.
Thishas no relevance to the Group in the current period.
The Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that are EU endorsed but not yet effective: r Amendments to IAS 19 Employment Benefits.
r Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income.
r Amendments to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements.
r Amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
r Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
r Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
r IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
The Group is currently considering the implications of these standards.
With the exception of Amendments to IAS 19 Employment Benefits itisanticipated that the impact of these standards will be minimal and principally relate to amendment and extension ofcurrent disclosures.
Amendments to IAS 19 Employment Benefits, effective 1 January 2013, will restrict the assumed actuarial returns on assets tothe pension scheme discount rate.
This will increase the reported net finance costs of the scheme.
The impact of the new standard on the reported profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2012 would be a reduction of 3.5m.
"""DDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT 4UBUFNFOU PG DPNQMJBODF Both the consolidated Group and Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS including International Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable tocompanies reporting under accounting standards as adopted for use in the EU."
#BTJT PG QSFQBSBUJPO The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain non-current assets and financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for assets.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS PUFT UP UIF 'JOBODJBM 4UBUFNFOUT DPOUJOVFE ""DDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT DPOUJOVFE PJOH DPODFSO The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position areset out in the Business Review on pages 2 to 24."
The financial position ofthe Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described onpages 16 to 20 of the Business Review.
Further disclosures regarding borrowings are provided in note 20 to the financial statements.
Inaddition, note 22 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial riskmanagement objectives: details of its financial instruments andhedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Directors have assessed the future funding requirements ofthe Group and the Company and compared it to the level of committed bank facilities and cash resources over the medium term.
The assessment included a review ofthefinancial forecasts andthe preparation of sensitivity analysis on the key factors which could affect future cash flow andfunding requirements.
The Groups policy on funding capacity is to ensure that it always has sufficient committed bank facilities in place to meet foreseeable peak working capital requirements.
At31December 2012 the Group had cash and depositsof 201.5m and 300mof undrawn committed bank facilities available to meet future funding requirements.
At31December 2012, the net cash position of the Group was 201.5m note 26.
Having undertaken this review, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to fund its operations forthe foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue toadopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
#BTJT PG DPOTPMJEBUJPO The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries up to 31 December each year.
Theresults of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year, are included in the consolidated financial statements from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those usedby the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
#VTJOFTT DPNCJOBUJPOT The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The subsidiarys identifiable assets, liabilities andcontingent liabilities are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
PPEXJMM Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value ofthe identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of the acquisition.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses is capitalised as an asset.
Goodwill allocated to the strategic land holdings is recognised as an asset, being the intrinsic value within these holdings in the acquired entities, which is realised upon satisfactory planning permission being obtained and sale of theland.
Goodwill is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is assessed for impairment at each reporting date by performing a value in use calculation, using a discount factor based on the pre-tax rate implicit in current market transactions of similar assets, covering the expected period of realisation and considering current market conditions.
It is tested by reference to the proportion oflegally completed plots in the period compared to the total plots which are expected to receive satisfactory planning permission in the remaining acquired strategic land holdings, taking account of historic experience and market conditions and comparing the carrying value of the assets with their recoverable amounts.
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSshas been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment.
The allocation of this goodwill for impairment testing is disclosed in note 14.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit orloss on disposal.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS 0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ, 1 T 1FSGPSNBODF PWFSOBODF 'JOBODJBMT 0UIFS JOGPSNBUJPO PUFT UP UIF 'JOBODJBM 4UBUFNFOUT DPOUJOVFE ""DDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT DPOUJOVFE #SBOE JOUBOHJCMFT Internally generated brands are not held on the balance sheet."
TheGroup carries assets on the balance sheet only for brands that have been acquired.
Acquired brand values are calculated based ondiscounted cash flows.
No amortisation is charged on brand intangibles, as the Group believes that the value of the brands is maintained indefinitely.
The factors that result in the durability of the brands capitalised are that there are no material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that limit the useful life of these intangibles.
The acquired brands are tested annually for impairment by performing a value in use calculation, using a discount factor based on the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital, on the branded incremental income stream.
Where a brands life is not deemed to be indefinite it is written off over its expected useful life on a straight-line basis.
3FWFOVF SFDPHOJUJPO Revenue in respect of the sale of residential properties is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable on legal completion.
The sales proceeds of part exchange properties are included as a reduction in cost of sales.
PWFSONFOU HSBOUT Grants are included within work in progress in the balance sheet andare credited to the statement of comprehensive income over thelife of the developments to which they relate.
Grants related to income are deducted from the related expense in the statement ofcomprehensive income.
0UIFS PQFSBUJOH JODPNF Other operating income comprises profits from the sale of land holdings, freehold reversions, rent receivable, and other incidental sundry income.
0QFSBUJOH FYQFOTFT Operating expenses represent the administration costs of the business, which are written off to the statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
#PSSPXJOH DPTUT Interest bearing bank loans, overdrafts and Partnership liabilities are initially measured at fair value being proceeds received, net of direct issue costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Finance charges, including direct issue costs are accounted for and taken to the statement of comprehensive income using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Where bank agreements include a legal right of offset for in hand andoverdraft balances, and the Group intends to settle net the outstanding position, the offset arrangements are applied to record the net position in the balance sheet.
&YDFQUJPOBM JUFNT Exceptional items comprise items of income and expense that are material, either by nature or size, and which merit separate disclosure in order to provide an understanding of the Groups underlying financial performance.
Examples of events giving rise to the disclosure of income and expense as exceptional items include, but are not limited to, reorganisation of operations and economic events which necessitate a review of asset valuations.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS PUFT UP UIF 'JOBODJBM 4UBUFNFOUT DPOUJOVFE ""DDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT DPOUJOVFE 4IBSF CBTFE QBZNFOU Charges for employee services received in exchange for share-based payment have been made for all options awards in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, to spread the fair value of the grant over the vesting period."
The fair value of such options has been calculated using generally accepted option pricing models, based upon publicly available market data at the point of grant.
Share options include both market and non-market conditions.
Market conditions are considered in the establishment of the initial valuation of the options.
In the event of failure to meet market conditions share-based payment charges are not reversed.
In the event of failure to meet non-market conditions share-based payment charges are reversed.
Share-based payments are charged wholly in the ultimate Parent Company, which makes internal recharges to subsidiaries forthese services as appropriate.
3FUJSFNFOU CFOeU DPTUT The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes.
It also operates a defined contribution scheme for employees who are not members of a defined benefit scheme.
The liability in respect of the defined benefit schemes is thepresent value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheetdate, less the fair value of the schemes assets, together with adjustments for actuarial gains and losses.
Further details of the schemes and the valuation methods applied may be found in note29.
Expected scheme gains and losses are recognised via operating expenses in the statement of comprehensive income and actuarial gains and losses via the statement of other comprehensive income.
Subsidiary entities bear a charge for current employees based upontheir current pensionable salaries.
Differences between this charge and the current service cost are borne by the ultimate ParentCompany as the legal sponsor, as are all experience gains andlosses.
Payments to the defined contribution scheme are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Once the payments have been made, theGroup has no further payment obligations.
5BYBUJPO Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised inequity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using enacted or substantially enacted tax rates, andadjusted for any tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting or taxable profit, and differences relating to investment in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using the prevailing tax rates.
Where the deferred tax asset recognised in respect of share-based payments would give rise to a credit in excess of the related accounting charge at the prevailing tax rate the excess is recognised directly in equity.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset canbe utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
-FBTFT BT MFTTFF Amounts payable under operating leases are charged to work in progress or operating expenses on a straight line accruals basis over the lease term.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS 0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ, 1 T 1FSGPSNBODF PWFSOBODF 'JOBODJBMT 0UIFS JOGPSNBUJPO PUFT UP UIF 'JOBODJBM 4UBUFNFOUT DPOUJOVFE ""DDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT DPOUJOVFE 1SPQFSUZ QMBOU BOE FRVJQNFOU It is the Groups policy to hold property, plant and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation, subject to the requirement to test assets for impairment."
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is provided using the straight line method to write off the cost less any estimated residual value, over the estimated useful lives on the following bases: Plant 3 to 5 years.
Fixtures and fittings 3 to 5 years.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
The assets useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each financial year end.
Animpairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
OWFTUNFOUT Interests in subsidiary undertakings are valued at cost less impairment.
Other investments are stated at fair value.
PJOUMZ DPOUSPMMFE FOUJUJFT A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group holds an interest with one or more other parties where a contractual arrangement has established joint control over the entity.
Investments in jointly controlled entities are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
"""WBJMBCMF GPS TBMF OBODJBM BTTFUT Receivables on extended terms granted as part of a sales transaction are secured by way of a second legal charge on the respective property, and are stated at fair value as described in note 17."
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the other comprehensive income section of the statement of comprehensive income, with the exceptions of impairment losses, changes in future cash flows and interest calculated using the effective interest rate method, which are recognised within profit for the year.
Where the asset is disposed of, or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is included in the income statement for the period.
OWFOUPSJFT Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Land with planning includes undeveloped land and land under development and is initially recorded at discounted cost.
Where, through deferred purchase credit terms, the carrying value differs from the amount that will ultimately be paid in setting the liability, this difference is charged as a finance cost in the statement of comprehensive income over the period of settlement.
Work in progress comprises direct materials, labour costs, site overheads, associated professional charges and other attributable overheads.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling prices less all estimated costs of completion and overheads.
Investments in land without the benefit of a planning consent are initially included at cost.
Regular reviews are carried out to identify any impairment in the value of the land considering the existing use value of the land and the likelihood of achieving aplanning consent and the value thereof.
Provision is made to reflect any irrecoverable amounts.
Expenditure relating to forward land, including options and fees, is held at cost.
If the option expires or the Directors no longer consider it likely that the option will be exercised prior to the securing of planning permission, the amount is written off on that date.
5SBEF BOE PUIFS SFDFJWBCMFT Trade receivables on normal terms do not carry any interest, are stated at amortised cost and are assessed for recoverability on anongoing basis.
