Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the AnnualReportand the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Report and the Group and Parent Company financial responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Under that law they are required to prepare the Group integrity of the corporate and financial information included financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the the preparation and dissemination of financial statements Parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
"Under company law the Directors must not approve the 3FTQPOTJCJMJUZ TUBUFNFOU PG UIF %JSFDUPST financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give JO SFTQFDU PG UIF ""OOVBM 'JOBODJBM 3FQPSU atrue and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period."
Each of the Directors who are listed on pages 26 and 27 Inpreparing each of the Group and Parent Company confirm that to the best of our knowledge: financial statements, the Directors are required to: r the financial statements, prepared in accordance with r select suitable accounting policies and then apply them IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view consistently: oftheassets, liabilities, financial position and profit of r make judgements and estimates that are reasonable theCompany and the undertakings included in the andprudent: consolidation taken as a whole: and r state whether they have been prepared in accordance with r the Business Review, which forms part of the Directors IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the r prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Company and the undertakings included in the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description the Parent Company will continue in business.
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate By order of the Board accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent.
JLF, JMMPSBO Company and enable them to ensure that its financial SPVQ $IJFG &YFDVUJWF SPVQ 'JOBODF %JSFDUPS statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have 'FCSVBSZ general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
