"0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ, 1 T 1FSGPSNBODF PWFSOBODF 'JOBODJBMT 0UIFS JOGPSNBUJPO Notes to the Financial Statements 'PS UIF ZFBS FOEFE %FDFNCFS ""EPQUJPO PG OFX BOE SFWJTFE OUFSOBUJPOBM 'JOBODJBM 3FQPSUJOH 4UBOEBSET '34T BOE OUFSQSFUBUJPOT '3 $T The following revised IFRSs have been adopted in these consolidated financial statements."
The application of these revised IFRSs has not had any material impact on the amounts reported for the current or prior years but may affect the accounting for future transactions or arrangements.
Other new standards and interpretations have no significant impact on the Group: r Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets.
Introduces a presumption that for any asset valued using the fair value model in IAS 40 Investment Property, the carrying amount will be recovered through sale, rather than use, for deferred tax measurement purposes.
No assets held by the Group at 31 December 2012 are valued inthis way.
r Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets.
Requires additional disclosures around transfers of financial assets including any risks that remain with an entity which has transferred any such asset.
Thishas no relevance to the Group in the current period.
The Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that are EU endorsed but not yet effective: r Amendments to IAS 19 Employment Benefits.
r Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income.
r Amendments to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements.
r Amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
r Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
r Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
r IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
The Group is currently considering the implications of these standards.
With the exception of Amendments to IAS 19 Employment Benefits itisanticipated that the impact of these standards will be minimal and principally relate to amendment and extension ofcurrent disclosures.
Amendments to IAS 19 Employment Benefits, effective 1 January 2013, will restrict the assumed actuarial returns on assets tothe pension scheme discount rate.
This will increase the reported net finance costs of the scheme.
The impact of the new standard on the reported profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2012 would be a reduction of 3.5m.
"""DDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT 4UBUFNFOU PG DPNQMJBODF Both the consolidated Group and Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS including International Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable tocompanies reporting under accounting standards as adopted for use in the EU."
#BTJT PG QSFQBSBUJPO The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain non-current assets and financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for assets.
