"PUFT UP UIF 'JOBODJBM 4UBUFNFOUT DPOUJOVFE ""WBJMBCMF GPS TBMF OBODJBM BTTFUT SPVQ bN bN ""U BOVBSZ ""EEJUJPOT 3FEFNQUJPOT NQVUFE JOUFSFTU ""U %FDFNCFS Available for sale financial assets comprise loans, largely with either a ten or twenty-five year term and variable repayment amounts, provided as part of sales transactions that are secured by way of a second legal charge on the related property."
Theassets are recorded at fair value, being the estimated future amount receivable by the Group, discounted to present dayvalues.
The fair value of future anticipated cash receipts takes into account the Directors view of future house price movements, the expected timing of receipts and the likelihood that a purchaser defaults on a repayment.
The Directors revisit the future anticipated cash receipts from the assets at the end of each financial reporting period.
The difference between the anticipated future receipt and the initial fair value is credited over the estimated deferred term to finance income, with the financial asset increasing to its full expected cash settlement value on the anticipated receipt date.
Credit risk, which the Directors currently consider to be largely mitigated through holding a second legal charge over the assets, is accounted for in determining fair values and appropriate discount factors are applied.
The Directors review the financial assets for impairment at each balance sheet date.
There were no indicators of impairment at 31 December 2012 2011: nil.
None of the financial assets are past their due dates 2011: nil and the Directors expect an average maturity profile of between 5 and 10 years from the balance sheet date.
Further disclosures relating to financial assets are set out in note 22.
OWFOUPSJFT bN bNBOE 8PSL JO QSPHSFTT 1BSU FYDIBOHF QSPQFSUJFT 4IPXIPVTFT The Directors consider all inventories to be essentially current in nature although the Groups operational cycle is such that aproportion of inventories will not be realised within 12 months.
It is not possible to determine with accuracy when specific inventory will be realised as this issubject to a number of issues including consumer demand and planning permission delays.
As set out in note 6, the Group conducted a further review of the net realisable value of its land and work in progress portfolio during 2012.
Theimpact of these reviews on the net realisable value of inventories is a net exceptional credit to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income of2.8m 2011: 13.3m.
A reversal of 23.8m 2011: 66.2m on inventories that were written down in a previous accounting period and an impairment of land and work in progress of 21.0m 2011: 52.9m were recognised in the year.
This reversal charge arose due to forecast selling prices and development costs on individual sites being higher or lower than previously estimated by management as a result of changing conditions, and or development plans.
Our approach to our net realisable value review has been consistent with that conducted at 31 December 2011.
The key judgements in estimating the future net present realisable value of a site was the estimation of likely sales prices, house types and costs to complete the developments.
Sales prices and costs to complete were estimated on a site-by-site basis based upon existing market conditions.
If the UK housing market were to improve or deteriorate in the future then further adjustments to the carrying value of land and work in progress may be required.
