"PUFT UP UIF 'JOBODJBM 4UBUFNFOUT DPOUJOVFE ""DDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT DPOUJOVFE %FSJWBUJWF nBODJBM JOTUSVNFOUT Until March 2011 the Group used currency swaps and interest rate swaps to manage financial risk."
Interest charges were stated after taking account of these swaps.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within theGroup, theCompany considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats theguarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company willbe required to make a payment under the guarantee.
5SBEF BOE PUIFS QBZBCMFT Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Trade payables on extended terms, particularly in respect of land purchases, are initially recorded at their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
%FQPTJUT New property deposits and on account contract receipts are held within current trade and other payables until the legal completion of the related property or cancellation of the sale.
$BTI BOE DBTI FRVJWBMFOUT Cash and cash equivalents include cash and balances in the bank accounts with no notice or less than three months notice from inception, and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
OUFSFTU CFBSJOH CPSSPXJOHT Interest bearing borrowings and Partnership liabilities are carried at amortised cost.
%JWJEFOET Dividends receivable from subsidiaries are accounted for on a cashbasis, or once formally approved by the shareholders of the subsidiarycompanies.
Dividends payable are recorded in the period in which they are approved or paid, whichever is earliest.
0XO TIBSFT IFME The Group may acquire holdings in its own shares either directly orviaemployee benefit trusts.
The acquisition cost of suchshares including associated purchase costs is treated as a deduction fromretained earnings.
Such shares may be used insatisfaction of employee options or rights, in which case the cost of such shares is reversed from the profit reserves on afirstinfirst out basis.
$SJUJDBM BDDPVOUJOH KVEHFNFOUT BOE LFZ TPVSDFT PG FTUJNBUJPO VODFSUBJOUZ In applying the Groups accounting policies which are described in note 2, the Directors have made no individual judgements that have asignificant impact upon the financial statements, excepting those involving estimation which are dealt with below.
"The key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet dateare: 1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS"
