PUFT UP UIF 'JOBODJBM 4UBUFNFOUT DPOUJOVFE 3FWFOVF An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: bN bN 3FWFOVF BT OPUFE JO UIF TUBUFNFOU PG DPNQSFIFOTJWF JODPNF 4BMF PG HPPET 0UIFS PQFSBUJOH JODPNF 'JOBODF JODPNF 5PUBM SFWFOVF Sale of goods includes 266.8m 2011: 173.6m of revenue generated where the sale has been achieved using part exchange incentives.
Proceeds received on the disposal of part exchange properties, which are not included in revenue, were 243.6m 2011:161.8m.
&YDFQUJPOBM JUFNT Exceptional items are items of income and expenditure that, in the judgement of management, should be disclosed separately on the basisthat they are material, either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of the financial performance and significantly distort the comparability of financial performance between accounting periods.
Items of income or expense that are considered by management fordesignation as exceptional include such items as significant restructuring, write-downs of current assets and impairments of non-currentassets.
NQBJSNFOU PG JOWFOUPSJFT During the year, the Group reviewed the net realisable value of its land and work in progress carrying values of its sites.
Thisresulted in a net reversal of the previous write-down of inventories of 2.8m 2011: 13.3m.
Further details are provided innote 18.
"""NFOEFE OBODJOH BSSBOHFNFOUT On 25 March 2011 the Group used cash and committed credit facilities to prepay, with an applicable make-whole amount, USand UK Senior Loan Notes due between 2013 and 2021, with face values of $151m and 51m."
The prepayment resulted inan exceptional charge to the statement of comprehensive income of 16.9m, including 1.6m write-off of unamortised arrangement fees.
At the same time associated hedging contracts, including cross currency interest rate swaps with a principal amount of $151m, were cancelled resulting in an exceptional gain of 7.1m in the statement of comprehensive income.
The total net cash payment in relation to the prepayment and cancellation of the loan notes and associated hedging contract was 145.9m.
FZ NBOBHFNFOU SFNVOFSBUJPO Key management personnel, as disclosed under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, have been identified as the Board of Directors and other senior operational management.
Detailed disclosures of individual remuneration, pension entitlements and share options, for those Directors who served during the year, are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 45.
Asummary of key management remuneration is asfollows: bN bN 4IPSU UFSN CFOFtT 1PTU FNQMPZNFOU CFOFtT 4IBSF CBTFE QBZNFOUT No termination benefits were paid to key management personnel.
