24 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Our business Senior management team Subramanian Sarma Bill Dunnett Managing Director, Onshore Engineering Managing Director, Offshore Projects &Construction &Operations Tenure Tenure Subramanian joined Petrofac in 1997.
Responsibility Responsibility Subramanian joined Petrofac as a project manager and has Bill has over 26 years experience in the oil and gas industry held various positions since then including Executive Vice and now leads the Offshore Projects & Operations service President, Projects and Deputy Chief Operating officer line within ECOM, which focuses on browneld projects and ofPetrofac International.
As Managing Director of Onshore operations and maintenance services worldwide.
Bill joined Engineering & Construction within ECOM, Subramanian Petrofac initially in the Developments business where he isresponsible for all our onshore EPC projects worldwide, hadresponsibility for asset development and production, which are delivered predominantly under lump-sum turnkey including the Don elds in the UKCS and the Chergui eld commercial models, and a workforce of around 7,800. inTunisia.
Previous experience Previous experience Prior to joining Petrofac, Subramanian worked for Prior to joining Petrofac, Bill spent eight years at Halliburton Kvaernerand Jacobs in India and Oman and has more and its subsidiary KBR, as a senior vice president and than 30 years experience in the oil and gas industry.
His responsibilities included membership Heholds an MSc in Chemical Engineering from the of the KBR Executive Leadership Team, Global Operations IndianInstitute of Technology.
Bill spent his earlier career with Mobil North Sea and Shell.
He is a chartered engineer and graduated with a first in Engineering from Heriot Watt University, Edinburgh.
Yves Inbona Craig Muir Managing Director, Offshore Capital Projects Managing Director, Engineering & ConsultingServices Tenure Yves joined Petrofac in June 2012.
Tenure Craig joined Petrofac in February 2012.
Responsibility Yves joined Petrofac as the Managing Director of our Responsibility Offshore Capital Projects business within ECOM, Craig joined Petrofac as Managing Director of Engineering whichfocuses ontheoffshore engineering, procurement, &Consulting Services within ECOM.
His responsibilities installation andcommissioning EPIC market.
Yves has include the effective management and execution of extensive expertisein the offshore sector, having more Petrofacs engineering service centres in Woking, India, than30 years of industry experience.
Malaysia, Indonesia, Houston, Algeria and Nigeria as well asour subsidiary business, Plant Asset Management.
Previous experience During his time as Chief Operating officer of Saipem SpA, Previous experience Yves managed the offshore business, which was the most Craig previously held the position of executive vice profitable of all Saipems business units.
He speaks seven president within growth regions covering the Middle East, languages and is a graduate engineer from cole Centrale Africa and CIS for AMEC, based in Abu Dhabi.
was in the growth of engineering services and Project Management Contracts.
Prior to joining AMEC, he also held numerous roles working in the oileld service sector including those with KBR, Brown & Root and AOC International.
He has previously worked in the North Sea, extensively in the Middle East, and in Asia Pacic.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 25 Gordon East Paul Groves Rob Jewkes Managing Director, Production Solutions Managing Director, Training Services Managing Director, Developments Tenure Tenure Tenure Gordon joined Petrofac in 2006.
Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Gordon leads the Production Solutions service line within As Managing Director of Petrofacs Training Services Rob joined Petrofac to build a Europe-based engineering IES, although he initially joined Petrofac as Managing Director business, Paul has overall responsibility for developing and services business in Woking, UK, which now forms part of of Petrofac Facilities Management now Offshore Projects running the Groups global training, competence consultancy Petrofacs Engineering & Consulting Services business.
Within Production Solutions, Gordon is and assurance activities as part of the IES division.
In2009, Rob was appointed Managing Director of responsible for developing and managing the Groups Developments within the IES division and is responsible Previous experience portfolio of Production Enhancement Contracts including forleveraging our engineering and project management Paul previously worked with Shell from 2001, where he fourprojects in Mexico, and the Ticleni Field in Romania.
capability through Risk Service Contracts and Equity held a number of business development-led roles within investments to lead the development of our customers Previous experience the organisation.
A Chartered Engineer and Scientist, upstream assets and energy infrastucture assets, Prior to joining Petrofac, Gordon spent more than 20 years Paulstarted his career as a lecturer of physics at Oxford withongoing projects in Malaysia, Tunisia and theUKCS.
with ConocoPhillips in various leadership and management University before moving into a number of management roles throughout the upstream business worldwide.
and development roles in organisations such as Alcan Previous experience Hehasalso held non-executive roles in the DTI and Aluminum Limited and British Gas BG PLC.
Rob has more than 35 years of experience in the oil and CabinetOfce.
Gordon has an MA in Engineering gas industry.
Prior to joining Petrofac, he served as chief fromCambridge University and an MSc in Petroleum executive officer of Clough Engineering, the main operating Engineering from Imperial College, London.
company of the Australian engineering group, Clough Limited.
Rob holds a degree in Civil Engineering from the University of Western Australia.
Richard Milne Geoff Traneld Group Director of Legal and CommercialAffairs Group Director of Human Resources Tenure Tenure Richard joined Petrofac in 2004.
Responsibility Responsibility Richard has overall responsibility for advising on the As the Group Director of Human Resources, Geoff has legaland commercial aspects of the Groups activities.
driven the progression of Petrofacs HR strategy and Heplayed a significant role in Petrofacs successful organisation development.
During his time at Petrofac, admission to listing on the London Stock Exchange in theGroup has grown considerably and Geoff has overseen 2005 and in developing the Groups governance and the launch of a number of organisational development, compliance framework.
As a member of the senior talent management and other HR programmes.
management team, Richard participates in the Groups Previous experience riskreview process and advises on corporate matters Geoff previously worked for Hess Corporation for more inaddition to significant commercial issues.
than five years, latterly in the position of vice president Previous experience HR worldwide E&P.
Prior to joining Hess, Geoff held a Prior to joining Petrofac, Richard spent some 15 years in number of other HR positions in sectors including oil and corporate finance which followed a career in the insurance gas, utilities and rail.
A graduate of Oxford University Richardqualied as a solicitor.
