110 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Consolidated statement of cash flows For the year ended 31 December 2012 2012 2011 Notes US$m US$m Operating activities Profit before tax 765 681 Non-cash adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows: Depreciation, amortisation, impairment and write off 4b, 4c 130 80 Share-based payments 4d 26 23 Difference between other long-term employment benefits paid and amounts recognised in the income statement 11 9 Net finance income 5 7 1 Loss gain on fair value changes in Seven Energy warrants 4g, 4f 6 6 Gain on disposal of an investment in a joint venture 4f 6 Share of losses of associates 12 8 4 Gain on disposal of non-current asset held for sale 4f 27 Fair value gain on initial recognition of investment in associate 12 9 Debt acquisition costs written off 3 Other non-cash items, net 7 6 907 796 Working capital adjustments: Trade and other receivables 549 301 Work in progress 44 192 Due from related parties 77 99 Inventories 16 3 Other current financial assets 68 17 Trade and other payables 253 735 Billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 61 211 Accrued contract expenses 525 7 Due to related parties 15 12 11 1,553 Long-term receivable from a customer 14 300 130 Other non-current items, net 4 Cash used in generated from operations 315 1,423 Interest paid 3 3 Income taxes paid, net 83 157 Net cash flows used in from operating activities 401 1,263 Investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 397 420 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 20 Payment of contingent consideration on acquisition 1 16 Purchase of other intangible assets 11 7 6 Purchase of intangible oil and gas assets 11 165 40 Investments in associates 12 25 50 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 Proceeds from disposal of non-current asset held for sale 60 Proceeds from disposal of an investment in a joint venture 5 Interest received 5 9 Net cash flows used in investing activities 544 523 Financing activities Interest bearing loans and borrowings obtained, net of debt acquisition cost 291 Repayment of interest-bearing loans and borrowings 50 19 Treasury shares purchased 21 76 49 Equity dividends paid 201 159 Net cash flows used in financing activities 36 227 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 981 513 Net foreign exchange difference 3 12 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1,535 1,034 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 19 557 1,535 The attached notes 1 to 32 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 111 Consolidated statement of changes in equity For the year ended 31 December 2012 Attributable to shareholders of Petrofac Limited Issued Capital Nonshare Share redemption Shares to Treasury Other Retained controlling Total capital premium reserve be issued shares reserves earnings Total interests equity US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m note 21 note 23 Balance at 1 January 2012 7 2 11 75 6 1,161 1,112 3 1,115 Net profit for the year 632 632 2 630 Other comprehensive income 30 30 30 Total comprehensive income for the year 30 632 662 2 660 Shares issued as payment of consideration on acquisition 2 2 2 Share-based payments charge note 22 26 26 26 Shares vested during the year note 21 51 45 6 Transfer to reserve for sharebased payments note 22 20 20 20 Treasury shares purchased note 21 76 76 76 Income tax on share-based payments reserve 1 1 1 Dividends note 8 198 198 198 Balance at 31 December 2012 7 4 11 100 38 1,589 1,549 1 1,550 Attributable to shareholders of Petrofac Limited Issued Capital Nonshare Share redemption Shares to Treasury Other Retained controlling Total capital premium reserve be issued shares reserves earnings Total interests equity US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m note 21 note 23 Balance at 1 January 2011 7 1 11 1 65 35 787 777 3 780 Net profit for the year 540 540 540 Other comprehensive income 33 33 33 Total comprehensive income for the year 33 540 507 507 Shares issued as payment of consideration on acquisition 1 1 Share-based payments charge note 22 23 23 23 Shares vested during the year note 21 39 34 5 Transfer to reserve for sharebased payments note 22 18 18 18 Treasury shares purchased note 21 49 49 49 Income tax on share-based payments reserve 3 3 3 Dividends note 8 161 161 161 Balance at 31 December 2011 7 2 11 75 6 1,161 1,112 3 1,115 Shares held by Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust and Petrofac Joint Venture Companies Employee Benefit Trust.
The attached notes 1 to 32 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
112 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2012 Standards issued but not yet effective 1 Corporate information Standards issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited of the Groups financial statements are listed below and include only the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012 were those standards and interpretations that are likely to have an impact authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the on the disclosures, financial position or performance of the Group Directors on 26 February 2013. at a future date.
The Group intends to adopt these standards when Petrofac Limited is a limited liability company registered and they become effective.
domiciled in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation Presentation and is the holding company for the international group of Petrofac of Items of Other Comprehensive Income OCI subsidiaries together the Group.
The Companys 31 December The amendments to IAS 1 change the grouping of items presented 2012 financial statements are shown on pages 152 to 165. in OCI.
Items that could be reclassified or recycled to profit The Groups principal activity is the provision of services to the or loss at a future point in time for example, upon derecognition oil and gas production and processing industry.
or settlement would be presented separately from items that will The principal Group companies, and joint venture entities, never be reclassified.
The amendment affects presentation only are contained in note 32 to these consolidated financial statements.
and has therefore no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
The amendment becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements as revised in 2011 As a consequence of the new IFRS 10 and IFRS 12, what remains Basis of preparation of IAS 27 is limited to accounting for subsidiaries, jointly controlled The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a entities, and associates in separate financial statements.
historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments The amendment becomes effective for annual periods beginning which have been measured at fair value.
The presentation currency on or after 1 January 2013 but is not expected to have any of the consolidated financial statements is United States dollars and financial impact on the separate financial statements of the all values in the financial statements are rounded to the nearest Company but will require some changes in disclosure.
million US$m except where otherwise stated.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Statement of compliance as revised in 2011 The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited and its As a consequence of the new IFRS 11 and IFRS 12, IAS 28 has subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International been renamed IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and applicable requirements and describes the application of the equity method to investments of Jersey law.
in joint ventures in addition to associates.
The amendment becomes Basis of consolidation effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification statements of Petrofac Limited and its subsidiaries.
The financial and Measurement statements of its subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting IFRS 9 as issued reflects the first phase of the IASBs work year as the Company and where necessary, adjustments are made on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and to the financial statements of the Groups subsidiaries to bring their measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as defined accounting policies into line with those of the Group.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control on or after 1 January 2015.
In subsequent phases, the IASB will is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the address hedge accounting and impairment of financial assets.
date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Control is The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial classification and measurement of the Groups financial assets, and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits but will not have an impact on classification and measurements of from its activities.
All intra-Group balances and transactions, financial liabilities.
The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction including unrealised profits, have been eliminated on consolidation.
with the other phases, when the final standard including all phases is issued.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries consolidated by the Group are disclosed separately from the Groups equity and income IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements statement and non-controlling interests are allocated their share IFRS 10 replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and of total comprehensive income for the year even if this results Separate Financial Statements that addresses the accounting in a deficit balance.
It also includes the issues raised in SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
New standards and interpretations The Group has adopted new and revised Standards and IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities Interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards including special purpose entities.
The changes introduced by IFRS Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting 10 will require management to exercise significant judgement to Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB that are relevant to its determine which entities are controlled, and therefore, are required operations and effective for accounting periods beginning on or after to be consolidated by a parent, compared with the requirements 1 January 2012.
The following new amendments and enhanced that were in IAS 27.
Based on the preliminary analyses performed, disclosures did not have any current impact on the financial position, IFRS 10 is not expected to have any impact on the currently held performance, or disclosures of the Group: investments of the Group.
IAS 12 Income Taxes Amendment Deferred Taxes: Recovery This standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning of Underlying Assets effective 1 January 2012 on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Enhanced Derecognition Disclosure Requirements effective 1 July 2011 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 113 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Significant accounting judgements and estimates IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Judgements Jointly-controlled Entities Non-monetary Contributions In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, by Venturers.
management has made the following judgements, apart from those involving estimations, which have the most significant effect on the IFRS 11 removes the option to account for jointly-controlled entities amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements: JCEs using proportionate consolidation.
Instead, JCEs that meet the definition of a joint venture must be accounted for using the revenue recognition on fixed-price engineering, procurement equity method.
and construction contracts: the Group recognises revenue on fixed-price engineering, procurement and construction contracts The application of this new standard will impact the financial position using the  method, based on surveys of the Group by eliminating proportionate consolidation of certain of work performed.
The Group has determined this basis of joint ventures.
With the application of the new standard, the revenue recognition is the best available measure of progress investment in those joint ventures will be accounted for using the on such contracts equity method of accounting.
This standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, and is to be revenue recognition on Integrated Energy Services contracts: applied retrospectively for joint arrangements held at the date of the Group assesses on a case by case basis the most initial application.
The expected impact of IFRS 11 on the current appropriate treatment for its various of commercial structures period which will be the comparative period in the financial which include Risk Service Contracts, Production Enhancement statements as of 31 December 2013, given the current status of Contracts and Equity Upstream Investments including Production our joint arrangements, is expected to be a reduction of revenue of Sharing Contracts see accounting policies note on page 117 for US$76m and a reduction in profit from operations of US$2m as further details income from joint ventures will be presented outside operating profit Estimation uncertainty going forward.
Current assets and current liabilities will be reduced The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources by US$47m and US$89m respectively, while the impact on nonof estimation uncertainty at the statement of financial position date, current assets will be a reduction of US$65m and the non-current that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the liabilities will be reduced by US$2m.
The reduction in net assets carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial above will result in recognition of investments in joint ventures which year are discussed below: will be included within non-current assets.
project cost to complete estimates: at each statement of financial IFRS 12 Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities position date the Group is required to estimate costs to complete IFRS 12 includes all of the disclosures that were previously in on fixed-price contracts.
Estimating costs to complete on such IAS 27 relating to consolidated financial statements, as well as all contracts requires the Group to make estimates of future costs of the disclosures that were previously included in IAS 31 and IAS to be incurred, based on work to be performed beyond the 28.
These disclosures relate to an entitys interests in subsidiaries, statement of financial position date.
This estimate will impact joint arrangements, associates and structured entities.
A number revenues, cost of sales, work-in-progress, billings in excess of of new disclosures are also required.
This standard becomes costs and estimated earnings and accrued contract expenses effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January onerous contract provisions: the Group provides for future losses 2013.
The application of this standard affects disclosure only on long-term contracts where it is considered probable that the and will have no impact on the Groups financial position contract costs are likely to exceed revenues in future years.
Estimating these future losses involves a number of assumptions IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement about the achievement of contract performance targets and IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all the likely levels of future cost escalation over time US$ nil at fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change when an entity 31 December 2012 2011: US$ nil is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how impairment of goodwill: the Group determines whether goodwill to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or is impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation permitted.
The Group is currently assessing the impact that this of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the standard will have on the financial position and performance goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the of the Group.
This standard becomes effective prospectively for Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. from each cash-generating unit and also to determine a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2012 was US$125m 2011: US$107m note 10 deferred tax assets: the Group recognises deferred tax assets on all applicable temporary differences where it is probable that future taxable profits will be available for utilisation.
This requires management to make judgements and assumptions regarding the amount of deferred tax that can be recognised based on the magnitude and likelihood of future taxable profits.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets at 31 December 2012 was US$43m 2011: US$29m 114 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 The carried value of the investment is tested for impairment at each 2 Summary of significant accounting reporting date.
Impairment, if any, is determined by the difference policies continued between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying income tax: the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to value and is reported within the share of income of an associate routine tax audits and also a process whereby tax computations in the Groups consolidated income statement.
are discussed and agreed with the appropriate authorities.
Foreign currency translation Whilst the ultimate outcome of such tax audits and discussions The Companys functional and presentational currency is US dollars.
cannot be determined with certainty, management estimates the In the financial statements of individual subsidiaries, joint ventures level of provisions required for both current and deferred tax on and associates, transactions in currencies other than a companys the basis of professional advice and the nature of current functional currency are recorded at the prevailing rate of exchange discussions with the tax authority concerned at the date of the transaction.
At the year end, monetary assets and recoverable value of intangible oil and gas and other intangible liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the assets: the Group determines at each statement of financial rates of exchange prevailing at the statement of financial position position date whether there is any evidence of indicators of date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at impairment in the carrying value of its intangible oil and gas and historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the rate other intangible assets.
Where indicators exist, an impairment test of exchange as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary is undertaken which requires management to estimate the assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are recoverable value of its intangible assets for example by reference translated using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was to quoted market values, similar arms length transactions determined.
All foreign exchange gains and losses are taken to the involving these assets or value in use calculations consolidated income statement with the exception of exchange units of production depreciation: estimated proven plus probable differences arising on monetary assets and liabilities that form part reserves are used in determining the depreciation of oil and gas of the Groups net investment in subsidiaries.
These are taken assets such that the depreciation charge is proportional to the directly to the statement of changes in equity until the disposal depletion of the remaining reserves over their life of production.
of the net investment at which time they are recognised in the These calculations require the use of estimates including the consolidated income statement.
amount of economically recoverable reserves and future oil and gas capital expenditure The statements of financial position of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into US dollars using the Interests in joint ventures closing rate method, whereby assets and liabilities are translated The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with other at the rates of exchange prevailing at the statement of financial parties which represent joint ventures.
These take the form of position date.
The income statements of overseas subsidiaries and agreements to share control over other entities jointly controlled joint ventures are translated at average exchange rates for the year.
entities and commercial collaborations jointly controlled Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net assets are operations.
These arrangements require unanimous agreement taken directly to other reserves within the statement of changes for financial and operating decisions among the venturers.
The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by proportionate consolidation, which involves recognising the On the disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange Groups proportionate share of the joint ventures assets, liabilities, differences are recognised in the consolidated income statement income and expenses with similar items in the consolidated financial as a component of the gain or loss on disposal.
Where the Group collaborates Property, plant and equipment with other entities in jointly controlled operations, the expenses the Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated Group incurs and its share of the revenue earned is recognised in depreciation and any impairment in value.
Cost comprises the the consolidated income statement.
Assets controlled by the Group purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly and liabilities incurred by it are recognised in the statement of attributable to making that asset capable of operating as intended.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount financial statements of the Groups jointly controlled entities and paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire operations to bring their accounting policies into line with those of the asset.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis, the Group.
other than on oil and gas assets, at the following rates: Investments in associates Oil and gas facilities 10% 12.5% The Groups investment in its associates, entities in which the Group Plant and equipment 4% 33% has significant influence, are accounted for using the equity method.
Buildings and leasehold improvements 5% 33% Under the equity method, the investment is initially carried at cost or lease term if shorter and adjusted for post acquisition changes in the Groups share of Office furniture and equipment 25% 50% net assets of the associate.
Goodwill on the initial investment forms Vehicles 20% 33% a part of the carrying amount of the investment and is not Tangible oil and gas assets are depreciated, on a field-by-field basis, individually tested for impairment.
using the unit-of-production method based on entitlement to proven The Group recognises its share of the net profits after tax and and probable reserves, taking account of estimated future non-controlling interest of the associates in its consolidated income development expenditure relating to those reserves.
Share of associates changes in equity is also recognised Each assets estimated useful life, residual value and method in the Groups consolidated statement of changes in equity.
of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each Any unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions financial year end.
between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in associates.
No depreciation is charged on land or assets under construction.
The financial statements of the associate are prepared using the same accounting policies and reporting periods as that of the Group.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 115 The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment Intangible assets non oil and gas assets is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are initially are expected from its use or disposal.
The gain or loss arising from measured at cost being their fair values at the date of acquisition the derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment is and are recognised separately from goodwill where the asset is included in the consolidated income statement when the item is separable or arises from a contractual or other legal right and its fair derecognised.
Gains are not classified as revenue.
value can be measured reliably.
After initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any Non-current assets held for sale accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets with a finite life Non-current assets or disposal Groups are classified as held for are amortised over their useful economic life using a straight-line sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of an asset will method unless a better method reflecting the pattern in which the be recovered principally through sale rather than continuing use.
assets future economic benefits are expected to be consumed Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
The amortisation charge in respect of intangible Borrowing costs assets is included in the selling, general and administration Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of qualifying expenses line of the consolidated income statement.
The expected assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period useful lives of assets are reviewed on an annual basis.
Any change of time to prepare for their intended use, are added to the cost of in the useful life or pattern of consumption of the intangible asset is those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready treated as a change in accounting estimate and is accounted for for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as prospectively by changing the amortisation period or method.
interest payable in the consolidated income statement in the period Intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever there is an in which they are incurred.
indication that the asset may be impaired.
Goodwill Oil and gas assets Goodwill acquired in a business combination is initially measured at Capitalised costs cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over The Groups activities in relation to oil and gas assets are limited the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent to assets in the evaluation, development and production phases.
liabilities of the entity at the date of acquisition.
Following initial Oil and gas evaluation and development expenditure is accounted recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated for using the successful efforts method of accounting.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate Evaluation expenditures that such carrying value may be impaired.
All transaction costs Expenditure directly associated with evaluation or appraisal associated with business combinations are charged to the activities is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Such costs include the consolidated income statement in the year of such combination.
costs of acquiring an interest, appraisal well drilling costs, payments to contractors and an appropriate share of directly attributable For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired is allocated overheads incurred during the evaluation phase.
For such appraisal to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the activity, which may require drilling of further wells, costs continue to synergies of the combination.
Each unit or units to which goodwill be carried as an asset whilst related hydrocarbons are considered is allocated represents the lowest level within the Group at which capable of commercial development.
Such costs are subject to the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and technical, commercial and management review to confirm the is not larger than an operating segment determined in accordance continued intent to develop, or otherwise extract value.
When this with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
is no longer the case, the costs are written-off in the income Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of statement.
When such assets are declared part of a commercial the cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates.
Where the development, related costs are transferred to tangible oil and gas recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than the assets.
All intangible oil and gas assets are assessed for any carrying amount of the cash-generating units and related goodwill, impairment prior to transfer and any impairment loss is recognised an impairment loss is recognised.
in the consolidated income statement.
Where goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units and Development expenditures part of the operation within those units is disposed of, the goodwill Expenditure relating to development of assets which include the associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying construction, installation and completion of infrastructure facilities amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on such as platforms, pipelines and development wells, is capitalised disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance within property, plant and equipment.
is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed Changes in unit-of-production factors of and the portion of the cash-generating units retained.
Changes in factors which affect unit-of-production calculations Contingent consideration payable on a business combination are dealt with prospectively in accordance with the treatment of When, as part of a business combination, the Group defers a changes in accounting estimates, not by immediate adjustment of proportion of the total purchase consideration payable for an prior years amounts.
acquisition, the amount provided for is the acquisition date fair value of the consideration.
The unwinding of the discount element is recognised as a finance cost in the consolidated income statement.
For business combinations prior to 1 January 2010, all changes in estimated contingent consideration payable on acquisition are adjusted against the carried goodwill.
For business combinations after 1 January 2010, changes in estimated contingent consideration payable on acquisition are recognised in the consolidated income statement unless they are measurement period adjustments which arise as a result of additional information obtained after the acquisition date about the facts and circumstances existing at the acquisition date, which are adjusted against carried goodwill.
116 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 Trade and other receivables 2 Summary of significant accounting Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice policies continued amount less an allowance for any amounts estimated to be Decommissioning uncollectable.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when there is Provision for future decommissioning costs is made in full when objective evidence that the collection of the full amount is no longer the Group has an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility probable under the terms of the original invoice.
Impaired debts are or an item of plant and to restore the site on which it is located, derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectable.
and when a reasonable estimate of that liability can be made.
Cash and cash equivalents The amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand expenditure.
An amount equivalent to the discounted initial provision and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months for decommissioning costs is capitalised and amortised over the life or less.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash of the underlying asset on a unit-of-production basis over proven equivalents consists of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, and probable reserves.
Any change in the present value of the net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
estimated expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the oil and gas asset.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at The unwinding of the discount applied to future decommissioning the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs directly provisions is included under finance costs in the consolidated attributable to the borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings Impairment of assets excluding goodwill are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective At each statement of financial position date, the Group reviews interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to assess into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium whether there is an indication that those assets may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is Provisions the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that attributable to the asset are discounted to their present value using an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
If the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised in the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately consolidated income statement as a finance cost.
in the consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities treated as a revaluation decrease.
Financial assets Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its is derecognised where: recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised delay to a third-party under a pass-through arrangement: or immediately in the consolidated income statement, unless the the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and reversal of the impairment is treated as a revaluation increase.
rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has Inventories transferred control of the asset Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary Financial liabilities course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Cost comprises liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
purchase price, cost of production, transportation and other directly If an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same allocable expenses.
Costs of inventories, other than raw materials, lender, on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing are determined using the first-in-first-out method.
Costs of raw liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification materials are determined using the weighted average method.
is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and recognition of a new liability such that the difference in the estimated earnings respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees Fixed price lump sum engineering, procurement and construction incurred are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
contracts are presented in the statement of financial position Pensions and other long-term employment benefits as follows: The Group has various defined contribution pension schemes in for each contract, the accumulated cost incurred, as well as accordance with the local conditions and practices in the countries the estimated earnings recognised at the contracts percentage in which it operates.
The amount charged to the consolidated of completion less provision for any anticipated losses, after income statement in respect of pension costs reflects the deducting the progress payments received or receivable from contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions the customers, are shown in current assets in the statement payable during the year and contributions actually paid are shown of financial position under work in progress as either accrued liabilities or prepaid assets in the statement of where the payments received or receivable for any contract financial position.
exceed the cost and estimated earnings less provision for any anticipated losses, the excess is shown as billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings within current liabilities Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 117 The Groups other long-term employment benefits are provided in The Group has entered into various operating leases the payments accordance with the labour laws of the countries in which the Group for which are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income operates, further details of which are given in note 25. statement on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
Share-based payment transactions Revenue recognition Employees including Directors of the Group receive remuneration Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable economic in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over measured.
The following specific recognition criteria also apply: shares equity-settled transactions.
Onshore Engineering & Construction Equity-settled transactions Revenues from fixed-price lump-sum contracts are recognised on The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured the  method, based on surveys of work by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
performed once the outcome of a contract can be estimated In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any reliably.
In the early stages of contract completion, when the service or performance conditions, other than conditions linked outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract to the price of the shares of Petrofac Limited market conditions, revenues are recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that if applicable.
are expected to be recoverable.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with Revenues from cost-plus-fee contracts are recognised on the basis a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the of costs incurred during the year plus the fee earned measured by relevant employees become fully entitled to the award the vesting the cost-to-cost method.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the in which the services are provided based on the agreed contract extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best schedule of rates.
estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The income statement charge or credit for a period represents the Provision is made for all losses expected to arise on completion movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning of contracts entered into at the statement of financial position date, and end of that period.
whether or not work has commenced on these contracts.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective performance standards will be met or exceeded and the of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, amount of the incentive payments can be measured reliably.
provided that all other performance conditions and service Variation orders are only included in revenue when it is probable conditions are satisfied.
Equity awards cancelled are treated as they will be accepted and can be measured reliably and claims vesting immediately on the date of cancellation, and any expense are only included in revenue when negotiations have reached an not recognised for the award at that date is recognised in the advanced stage.
Offshore Projects & Operations, Engineering & Consulting Services Petrofac Employee Benefit Trusts and Integrated Energy Services The Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust and the Petrofac Joint Venture Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period Companies Employee Benefit Trust warehouse ordinary shares in which the services are provided based on the agreed contract purchased to satisfy various new share scheme awards made to the schedule of rates.
employees of the Company and its joint venture partner employees, Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognised on the which will be transferred to the members of the scheme on their  method, measured by milestones respective vesting dates subject to satisfying the performance completed or earned value once the outcome of a contract can be conditions of each scheme.
The trusts have been consolidated in estimated reliably.
In the early stages of contract completion, when the Group financial statements in accordance with SIC 12 Special the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract Purpose Entities.
The cost of shares temporarily held by the trusts revenues are recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that are reflected as treasury shares and deducted from equity.
Leases Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date and performance standards will be met or exceeded and the amount whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of the incentive payments can be measured reliably.
Claims are only of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys the right included in revenue when negotiations have reached an advanced to use the asset.
stage such that it is probable the claim will be accepted and can be Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the measured reliably.
lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership Integrated Energy Services to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Oil and gas revenues comprise the Groups share of sales from the Assets held under finance leases are recognised as non-current processing or sale of hydrocarbons on an entitlement basis, when assets of the Group at the lower of their fair value at the date of the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been passed commencement of the lease and the present value of the minimum to the buyer.
These assets are depreciated on a straight-line Revenue from production enhancement contracts is recognised basis over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease based on the volume of hydrocarbons produced in the period and term.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the the agreed tariff and the reimbursement arrangement for costs consolidated statement of financial position as a finance lease incurred.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance costs in the income statement and reduction of the lease obligation so as Pre-contract bid costs to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of Pre-contract bid costs incurred are recognised as an expense until the liability.
there is a high probability that the contract will be awarded, after which all further costs are recognised as assets and expensed over the life of the contract.
118 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of 2 Summary of significant accounting derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken policies continued to the consolidated income statement.
Income taxes The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by Income tax expense represents the sum of current income tax and reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with deferred tax.
The fair value of oil price collar contracts is Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: from, or paid to the taxation authorities.
Taxable profit differs from fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the transaction statement of financial position date.
The Group formally designates and documents the relationship Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences between the hedging instrument and the hedged item at the at the statement of financial position date between the carrying inception of the transaction, as well as its risk management amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, The documentation also includes identification of the hedging with the following exceptions: instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of risk being where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition hedged and how the Group will assess the hedging instruments of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged business combination that at the time of the transaction affects items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, in the hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes where the timing of reversal of the temporary differences can be in fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the it is probable that a taxable profit will be available against which hedging relationship, as follows: the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits Cash flow hedges or tax losses can be utilised For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at the hedging instrument is recognised directly in the statement of each statement of financial position date and reduced to the extent changes in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be consolidated income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax assets to be transferred to the consolidated income statement when the hedged utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed transaction affects the consolidated income statement.
at each statement of financial position date and are recognised to If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
revoked, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply ultimately recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When a when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the gain or loss that was reported in the statement of changes in equity statement of financial position date.
is immediately transferred to the consolidated income statement.
Current and deferred income tax is charged or credited directly to Embedded derivatives other comprehensive income or equity if it relates to items that are Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives credited or charged to respectively, other comprehensive income at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, or equity.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the consolidated with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that income statement.
significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability Derivative financial instruments and hedging or transaction are separated and accounted for as The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward standalone derivatives.
currency contracts and oil price collars and forward contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and oil price fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 119 3 Segment information The Group delivers its services through the four reporting segments set out below: Onshore Engineering & Construction which provides engineering, procurement and construction project execution services to the onshore oil and gas industry Offshore Projects & Operations which provides offshore engineering, operations and maintenance on and offshore and engineering, procurement and construction project execution services to the offshore oil and gas industry Engineering & Consulting Services which provides technical engineering, consultancy, conceptual design, front end engineering and design FEED and project management consultancy PMC across all sectors including renewables and carbon capture Integrated Energy Services which co-invests with partners in oil and gas production, processing and transportation assets, provides production improvement services under value aligned commercial structures and oil and gas related technical competency training and consultancy services Management separately monitors the trading results of its four reporting segments for the purpose of making an assessment of their performance and making decisions about how resources are allocated to them.
Each segments performance is measured based on its profitability which is reflected in a manner consistent with the results shown below.
However, certain shareholder services related overheads, Group financing and consolidation adjustments are managed at a corporate level and are not allocated to reporting segments.
The following tables represent revenue and profit information relating to the Groups reporting segments for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Year ended 31 December 2012 Onshore Offshore Engineering Integrated Consolidation Engineering & Projects & & Consulting Energy Corporate adjustments Construction Operations Services Services & others & eliminations Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue External sales 4,332 1,237 100 704 49 6,324 Inter-segment sales 26 166 148 15 355 Total revenue 4,358 1,403 248 719 404 6,324 Segment results 540 79 30 141 6 26 770 Unallocated corporate costs 4 4 Profit loss before tax and finance income costs 54079301412 26 766 Share of losses of associates 8 8 Finance costs 4 6 5 5 Finance income 8 1 7 9 13 12 Profit loss before income tax 548 79 31 136 5 34 765 Income tax expense income 69 18 4 47 8 5 135 Non-controlling interests 2 2 Profit loss for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders 479 61 29 89 13 39 632 Other segment information Capital expenditures: Property, plant and equipment 76 13 7 355 4 25 430 Intangible oil and gas assets 165 165 Charges: Depreciation 40155556 2 119 Amortisation and net impairment 1 1 8 1 11 Other long-term employment benefits 16 1 1 1 19 Share-based payments 13 3 1 5 4 26 Elimination of external sales shown above of US$49m represents a Group adjustment to the overall project percentage of completion on the Laggan Tormore project as OEC and OPO are reflecting in their segments progress on their own respective shares of the total project scope.
120 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 3 Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2011 Onshore Offshore Engineering Integrated Consolidation Engineering & Projects & & Consulting Energy Corporate adjustments Construction Operations Services Services & others & eliminations Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue External sales 4,068 1,165 64 504 5,801 Inter-segment sales 78 87 144 15 324 Total revenue 4,146 1,252 208 519 324 5,801 Segment results 554 57 33 57 8 693 Unallocated corporate costs 9 9 Profit loss before tax and finance income costs 554 57 33 57 9 8 684 Share of losses of associates 4 4 Finance costs 2 1 3 3 2 7 Finance income 9 2 3 8 Profit loss before income tax 561 56 33 50 10 9 681 Income tax expense income 98 12 2 28 1 2 141 Non-controlling interests Profit loss for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders 463 44 31 22 9 11 540 Other segment information Capital expenditures: Property, plant and equipment 54 58 8 312 6 3 435 Intangible oil and gas assets 40 40 Charges: Depreciation 3146351 77 Amortisation 111 3 Other long-term employment benefits 12 1 13 Share-based payments 12 2 1 4 4 23 Geographical segments The following tables present revenue from external customers based on their location and non-current assets by geographical segments for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011.
Year ended 31 December 2012 United United Arab Other Turkmenistan Kingdom Algeria Emirates Malaysia Kuwait Qatar countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenues from external customers 1,697 1,186 862 793 448 319 259 760 6,324 United United Arab Other Kingdom Emirates Mexico Romania Malaysia Singapore countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 68 127 86 75 382 76 91 905 Intangible oil and gas assets 10 251 7 268 Other intangible assets 13 16 5 5 39 Goodwill 107 17 1 125 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 121 Year ended 31 December 2011 United Arab United Other Emirates Kingdom Turkmenistan Malaysia Algeria Kuwait Qatar countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenues from external customers 1,291 939 768 653 749 379 257 765 5,801 United United Arab Other Kingdom Emirates Tunisia Algeria Malaysia Thailand countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 71 105 42 27 256 48 45 594 Intangible oil and gas assets 1 102 103 Other intangible assets 13 6 19 Goodwill 91 15 1 107 Revenues disclosed in the above tables are based on where the project is located.
Revenues representing greater than 10% of Group revenues arose from one customer amounting to US$1,697m 2011: two customers US$1,653m in the Onshore Engineering & Construction segment.
Revenue 2012 2011 US$m US$m Rendering of services 6,205 5,651 Sale of crude oil and gas 111 143 Sale of processed hydrocarbons 8 7 6,324 5,801 Included in revenues from rendering of services are Offshore Projects & Operations, Engineering & Consulting Services and Integrated Energy Services revenues of a pass-through nature with zero or low margins amounting to US$220m 2011: US$229m.
The revenues are included as external revenues of the Group since the risks and rewards associated with recognition are assumed by the Group.
Cost of sales Included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2012 is depreciation charged on property, plant and equipment of US$101m during 2012 2011: US$62m note 9.
Also included in cost of sales are forward points and ineffective portions on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and losses on undesignated derivatives of US$2m 2011: US$6m loss.
These amounts are an economic hedge of foreign exchange risk but do not meet the criteria within IAS 39 and are most appropriately recorded in cost of sales.
c. Selling, general and administration expenses 2012 2011 US$m US$m Staff costs 228 187 Depreciation note 9 18 15 Amortisation note 11 4 3 Net impairment of an investment in associate note 12 7 Other operating expenses 102 78 359 283 Other operating expenses consist mainly of office, travel, legal and professional and contracting staff costs.
122 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 4 Revenues and expenses continued d. Staff costs 2012 2011 US$m US$m Total staff costs: Wages and salaries 1,179 1,045 Social security costs 52 38 Defined contribution pension costs 20 21 Other long-term employee benefit costs note 25 19 13 Expense of share-based payments note 22 26 23 1,296 1,140 Of the US$1,296m 2011: US$1,140m of staff costs shown above, US$1,068m 2011: US$953m is included in cost of sales, with the remainder in selling, general and administration expenses.
The average number of payrolled staff employed by the Group during the year was 15,259 2011: 13,212. e. Auditors remuneration The Group paid the following amounts to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Group audit fee 1 1 Audit of accounts of subsidiaries 1 1 Others 1 1 3 3 Others include audit related assurance services of US$327,000 2011: US$283,000, tax advisory services of US$235,000 2011: US$432,000, tax compliance services of US$113,000 2011: US$208,000 and other non-audit services of US$118,000 2011: US$90,000.
f. Other income 2012 2011 US$m US$m Foreign exchange gains 9 3 Gain on disposal of non-current asset held for sale note 15 27 Fair value on initial recognition of investment in associate note 12 9 Gain on disposal of an investment in a joint venture 6 Recovery of legal claim 6 Gain on fair value changes in Seven Energy warrants note 12 6 Other income 8 3 65 12 Gain on sale of non-current asset held for sale of US$36m comprises US$27m on disposal of 75.2% of Petrofacs interest in Petrofac FPF1 Limited to Ithaca Energy Inc and US$9m being the increase in fair value of the remaining 24.8% interest held which is classified as an associate.
g. Other expenses 2012 2011 US$m US$m Foreign exchange losses 11 4 Loss on fair value changes in Seven Energy warrants note 12 6 Other expenses 3 1 20 5 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 123 5 Finance costs income 2012 2011 US$m US$m Interest payable: Long-term borrowings 2 3 Other interest, including short-term loans and overdrafts 1 2 Unwinding of discount on provisions note 25 2 2 Total finance cost 5 7 Interest receivable: Bank interest receivable 5 8 Unwinding of discount on long-term receivables from customers 7 Total finance income 12 8 6 Income tax a.
Tax on ordinary activities The major components of income tax expense are as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Current income tax Current income tax charge 97 138 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 29 1 Deferred income tax Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 73 9 Recognition of tax losses relating to prior periods 6 Adjustments in respect of deferred income tax of previous years 7 Income tax expense reported in the income statement 135 141 Income tax reported in equity Deferred income tax related to items credited directly to equity 4 5 Current income tax related to share schemes 5 4 Income tax income expense reported in equity 1 1 b. Reconciliation of total tax charge A reconciliation between the income tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the Companys domestic tax rate is as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Accounting profit before tax 765 681 At Jerseys domestic income tax rate of 0% 2011: 0% Expected tax charge in higher rate jurisdictions 160 141 Expenditure not allowable for income tax purposes 13 3 Adjustments in respect of previous years 36 6 Adjustments in respect of losses not previously recognised derecognised 2 1 Unrecognised tax losses 2 Other permanent differences 1 1 Effect of change in tax rates 1 1 At the effective income tax rate of 17.7% 2011: 20.7% 135 141 The Groups effective tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2012 is 17.7% 2011: 20.7%.
A number of factors have impacted the effective tax rate this year including the net release of tax provisions held in respect of income taxes, the recognition of tax losses previously unrecognised and the mix of profits in the jurisdictions in which profits are earned.
Adjustments in respect of prior periods represent the creation or release of tax provisions following the normal review, audit and final settlement process that occurs in the territories in which the Group operates.
From 1 April 2013, the main UK corporation tax rate will be 23%, subsequently reducing to 21% in 2014.
The change in the main UK rate to 23% was substantively enacted as at the balance sheet date.
This change will impact the reversal of the temporary difference from this date onwards, reducing the Groups UK deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended 31 December 2012.
It is not expected that the proposed future rate reduction will have a significant effect on the net UK deferred tax position.
124 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 6 Income tax continued c. Deferred income tax Deferred income tax relates to the following: Consolidated statement Consolidated income of financial position statement 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred income tax liabilities Fair value adjustment on acquisitions 3 3 2 Accelerated depreciation 121 43 78 6 Profit recognition 100 14 86 6 Other temporary differences 2 Gross deferred income tax liabilities 224 60 Deferred income tax assets Losses available for offset 96 2 94 Decelerated depreciation for tax purposes 3 2 1 Share scheme 9 10 1 1 Profit recognition 11 11 7 Other temporary differences 5 4 1 2 Gross deferred income tax assets 124 29 Net deferred tax liability deferred income tax charge 100 31 67 2 Of which Deferred income tax assets 43 29 Deferred income tax liabilities 143 60 d. Unrecognised tax losses and tax credits Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards and tax credits to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of US$27m 2011: US$31m.
The 2011 values of unrecognised losses have been restated to reflect the revised loss position.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Expiration dates for tax losses No earlier than 2017 7 No earlier than 2022 9 No expiration date 8 8 15 17 Tax credits no expiration date 12 14 27 31 During 2012, the Group recognised a tax benefit from the utilisation of tax losses of US$3m 2011: US$1m, recognition of losses not previously recognised of US$6m 2011: US$ nil and derecognition of tax losses from a prior period US$7m 2011: US$ nil.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 125 7 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, after adjusting for any dilutive effect, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for the effects of ordinary shares granted under the employee share award schemes which are held in trust.
The following reflects the income and share data used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders for basic and diluted earnings per share 632 540 2012 2011 Number Number m m Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 340 339 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares granted under share-based payment schemes 3 4 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 343 343 8 Dividends paid and proposed 2012 2011 US$m US$m Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2010: 30.00 cents per share 102 Interim dividend 2011: 17.40 cents per share 59 Final dividend for 2011: 37.20 cents per share 127 Interim dividend 2012: 21.00 cents per share 71 198 161 2012 2011 US$m US$m Proposed for approval at AGM not recognised as a liability as at 31 December Equity dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend for 2012: 43.00 cents per share 2011: 37.20 cents per share 149 129 126 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 9 Property, plant and equipment Land, buildings Office and furniture Assets Oil and gas Oil and gas leasehold Plant and and under assets facilities improvements equipment Vehicles equipment construction Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 January 2011 118 166 158 23 15 87 13 580 Additions 3 306 64 5 3 30 24 435 Disposals 2 2 1 10 15 Transfers 44 13 13 44 Exchange difference 3 2 2 1 8 At 1 January 2012 118 426 218 26 17 119 24 948 Additions 170 139 30 3 6 29 53 430 Disposals 7 4 10 2 23 Transfers Exchange difference 1 1 2 At 31 December 2012 288 558 245 19 23 147 77 1,357 Depreciation At 1 January 2011 50 118 45 18 8 54 293 Charge for the year 14 19 20 1 4 19 77 Disposals 2 2 10 14 Transfers Exchange difference 2 2 At 1 January 2012 62 137 63 17 12 63 354 Charge for the year 36 11 33 2 4 33 119 Disposals 7 4 10 1 22 Transfers Exchange difference 1 1 At 31 December 2012 98 141 92 9 16 96 452 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2012 190 417 153 10 7 51 77 905 At 31 December 2011 56 289 155 8 6 56 24 594 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 127 Additions to oil and gas assets mainly comprise field development costs relating to the Santuario and Magallanes fields of US$106m and Ticleni field of US$48m.
Additions to oil and gas facilities in 2012 mainly comprise the upgrade of the FPF5 at a cost of US$104m 2011: US$305m purchase and upgrade of the FPF1, FPSO Berantai, FPF3, FPF4 and FPF5.
Transfers from oil and gas facilities in 2011 include transfer of the FPF1 to non-current asset held for sale as part of the pending Ithaca transaction note 15.
Of the total charge for depreciation in the income statement, US$101m 2011: US$62m is included in cost of sales and US$18m 2011: US$15m in selling, general and administration expenses.
Assets under construction comprise expenditures incurred in relation to a new office building in the United Arab Emirates and the Group Enterprise Resource Planning ERP project.
Included in land, buildings and leasehold improvements is property, plant and equipment under finance lease agreements, for which book values are as follows: 2012 2011 Net book value US$m US$m Gross book value 35 36 Addition 5 Depreciation 7 1 Exchange difference 1 At 31 December 34 35 10 Goodwill A summary of the movements in goodwill is presented below: 2012 2011 US$m US$m At 1 January 107 106 Acquisitions during the year 15 Re-assessment of contingent consideration payable 1 1 Exchange difference 4 At 31 December 125 107 Acquisitions during the year comprise the goodwill recognised on acquisition of KW Limited of US$14m being the difference between the fair value of the consideration of US$16m and the fair value of the assets acquired of US$2m and H&L SPD Americas S fide R. L of US$1m.
Re-assessment of contingent consideration payable comprises of the increase in contingent consideration payable on SPD Group Limited of US$ nil 2011: US$1m and a decrease in contingent consideration payable on Caltec Limited of US$1m 2011: US$ nil.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to three groups of cash-generating units, for impairment testing as follows: Offshore Projects & Operations Engineering & Consulting Services Integrated Energy Services These represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Offshore Projects & Operations, Engineering & Consulting Services and Integrated Energy Services cash-generating units The recoverable amounts for the Offshore Projects & Operations, Engineering & Consulting Services and Integrated Energy Services cash-generating units have been determined based on value in use calculations, using discounted pre-tax cash flow projections.
Management have adopted projection periods appropriate to each units value in use.
For Offshore Projects & Operations and Engineering & Consulting Services cash-generating units the cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five-year period, extrapolated at a growth rate of 2.5%.
For the Integrated Energy Services business the cash flows are based on field models over the length of the contracted period for Production Enhancement Contracts and Risk Service Contracts.
For other operations included in Integrated Energy Services, cash flows are based on financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five-year period, extrapolated at a growth rate of 2.5%.
The carrying amount of goodwill for the Offshore Projects & Operations and Engineering & Consulting Services cash-generating units are not individually significant in comparison with the total carrying amount of goodwill and therefore no analysis of sensitivities has been provided below.
128 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 10 Goodwill continued Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each group of cash-generating units 2012 2011 US$m US$m Offshore Projects & Operations unit 29 28 Engineering & Consulting Services unit 23 8 Integrated Energy Services unit 73 71 125 107 Key assumptions used in value in use calculations for the Integrated Energy Services unit: Market share: for the Training business which is within Integrated Energy Services, the key assumptions relate to managements assessment of maintaining the units market share in the UK and developing further the business in international markets.
Capital expenditure: the Production Enhancement Contracts in the Integrated Energy Services unit require a minimum level of capital spend on the projects in the initial years to meet contractual commitments.
If the capital is not spent a cash payment of the balance is required which does not qualify for cost recovery.
The level of capital spend assumed in the value in use calculation is that expected over the period of the budget based on the current field development plans which assumes the minimum spend is met on each project and the contracts remain in force for the entire duration of the project.
Reserve volumes and production profiles: management has used its internally developed economic models of reserves and production as inputs into the value in use for the Production Enhancement, Risk Service and Production Sharing Contracts.
Management has used an oil price of US$100 per barrel 2011: US$85 per barrel to determine reserve volumes on Production Sharing Contracts.
Tariffs and payment terms: the tariffs and payment terms used in the value in use calculations for the Production Enhancement and Risk Service Contracts are those specified in the respective contracts with assumptions consistent with the current field development plan where KPIs influence the payment terms.
Growth rate: estimates are based on managements assessment of market share having regard to macro-economic factors and the growth rates experienced in the recent past in the markets in which the unit operates.
A growth rate of 2.5% per annum has been applied for businesses within the Integrated Energy Services cash-generating unit where the cash flows are not based on long-term contractual arrangements.
Discount rate: management has used a pre-tax discount rate of 13.2% per annum 2011: 13.8% per annum.
The discount rate is derived from the estimated weighted average cost of capital of the Group and has been calculated using an estimated risk free rate of return adjusted for the Groups estimated equity market risk premium.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions With regard to the assessment of value in use of the cash-generating units, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the relevant unit to exceed its recoverable amount, after giving due consideration to the macro-economic outlook for the oil and gas industry and the commercial arrangements with customers underpinning the cash flow forecasts for each of the units.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 129 11 Intangible assets 2012 2011 US$m US$m Intangible oil and gas assets Cost: At 1 January 103 69 Additions 165 40 Transfer to costs 6 Net book value of intangible oil and gas assets at 31 December 268 103 Other intangible assets Cost: At 1 January 30 25 Additions on acquisition 6 Transfer from other non-current financial assets note14 10 Additions 7 6 Disposals Exchange difference 1 1 At 31 December 54 30 Accumulated amortisation: At 1 January 11 8 Amortisation 4 3 Disposal Exchange difference At 31 December 15 11 Net book value of other intangible assets at 31 December 39 19 Total intangible assets 307 122 Intangible oil and gas assets Oil and gas assets part of the Integrated Energy Services segment additions above comprise largely US$149m 2011: US$39m of capitalised expenditure on the Groups assets in Malaysia.
There were investing cash outflows relating to capitalised intangible oil and gas assets of US$165m 2011: US$40m in the current period arising from pre-development activities.
US$6m transfer in 2011 relates to a long-term receivable from a customer on the Berantai RSC contract being their share of development expenditure, which was transferred to costs.
Other intangible assets Other intangible asset additions on acquisition represent US$6m of e-learning software that formed part of the acquisition during the year of Oilennium Limited.
Transfers from other non-current financial assets are transition costs relating to the Santuario, Magallanes and Ticleni Production Enhancement Contracts of US$10m note 14.
Other intangible assets comprising project development expenditure, customer contracts, proprietary software, LNG intellectual property and patent technology are being amortised over their estimated economic useful life on a straight-line basis and the related amortisation charges included in selling, general and administration expenses note 4c.
130 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 12 Investments in associates 2012 2011 US$m US$m Investment in Gateway Storage Company Limited 14 Associates acquired through acquisition of subsidiary 1 1 Transfer from subsidiary to investment in associate Petrofac FPF1 Limited 9 Investment in Seven Energy International Limited 167 149 177 164 As a result of the disposal of 75.2% of Petrofac FPF1 Limited see note 4f the remaining 24.8% investment is classified as an associate recognised at a fair value of US$9m.
Gateway Storage Company Limited During the year the Groups investment of US$14m, representing 20% of the equity of Gateway Storage Company Limited, has been written off in the consolidated income statement and the associated contingent consideration payable of US$7m note 26 has also been reversed in the consolidated income statement due to continuing uncertainty over the future prospects for the companys business.
Seven Energy International Limited On 25 November 2010, the Group invested US$100m for 15.0% 12.6% on a fully diluted basis of the share capital of Seven Energy International Limited Seven Energy, a leading Nigerian gas development and production company incurring US$1m of transaction costs.
This investment which was previously held under available-for-sale financial assets was transferred to investments in associates, pursuant to an investment on 10 June 2011 of US$50m for an additional 4.6% of the share capital of Seven Energy which resulted in the Group being in a position to exercise significant influence over Seven Energy.
On 30 October 2012, the Group invested US$25m for an additional 2.4% of the share capital of Seven Energy.
The additional US$25m investment was made as part of a discounted rights issue required to deal with a short-term funding requirement by Seven Energy at a subscription price of US$150 per share and in light of this the carrying value of the investment has been tested for impairment and no impairment provision is required.
No negative goodwill has been accounted for on the rights issue as the range of possible outcomes was immaterial.
The Group also has the option to subscribe for 148,571 of additional warrants in Seven Energy at a cost of a further US$52m, subject to the performance of certain service provision conditions and milestones in relation to project execution.
These warrants have been fair valued at 31 December 2012 as derivative financial instruments under IAS 39, using a Black Scholes Model, amounting to US$12m 2011: US$18m.
US$6m 2011: US$6m other income has been recognised as other expense in the current period income statement as a result of the revaluation of these derivatives at 31 December 2012 note 4g.
During 2012 deferred revenue recognised in trade and other payables of US$2m at 31 December 2012 was released in full to the consolidated income statement as 100% of the performance conditions required to subscribe for the remaining warrants in the Company were satisfied 2011: 80% satisfied with revenue recognised of US$10m.
The share of the associates statement of financial position is as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Non-current assets 163 93 Current assets 22 22 Non-current liabilities 56 48 Current liabilities 59 11 Equity 70 56 Transaction costs incurred 2 2 Residual goodwill 95 91 Carrying value of investment 167 149 Share of associates revenues and net loss: Revenue 23 24 Net loss 8 3 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 131 13 Interest in joint ventures In the normal course of business, the Group establishes jointly controlled entities for the execution of certain of its operations and contracts.
A list of these joint ventures is disclosed in note 32.
The Groups share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to jointly controlled entities is as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Revenue 266 453 Cost of sales 195 376 Gross profit 71 77 Selling, general and administration expenses 50 50 Finance expense income, net 2 1 Profit before income tax 19 28 Income tax 3 1 Net profit 16 27 Current assets 95 172 Non-current assets 256 183 Total assets 351 355 Current liabilities 133 272 Non-current liabilities 184 57 Total liabilities 317 329 Net assets 34 26 14 Other financial assets 2012 2011 US$m US$m Other financial assets non-current Long-term receivables from customers 437 130 Restricted cash 7 Other 10 444 140 Other financial assets current Short-term component of receivable from a customer 67 Seven Energy warrants note 12 12 18 Fair value of derivative instruments note 31 2 9 Restricted cash 4 2 Other 1 85 30 The long-term receivables from customers relate to the discounted value of amounts due under the Berantai RSC, which are being recovered over a six year period from 2013 in line with the contractual terms of the project and to amounts receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area.
Restricted cash comprises deposits with financial institutions securing various guarantees and performance bonds associated with the Groups trading activities note 29.
This cash will be released on the maturity of these guarantees and performance bonds.
Included in other non-current financial assets in 2011 are transition costs relating to the Santuario, Magallanes and Ticleni Production Enhancement Contracts which have been transferred to other intangible assets in 2012 note 11.
132 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 15 Non-current asset held for sale 2012 2011 US$m US$m Non-current asset held for sale note 9 44 Liabilities directly associated with non-current asset held for sale 5 The non-current asset held for sale part of the Integrated Energy Services segment at 31 December 2011, comprising FPF1 Ltd was partly disposed of to the extent of 75.2%.
The retained interest of 24.8% was recognised as an investment in associate at fair value note 12.
16 Inventories 2012 2011 US$m US$m Crude oil 3 4 Stores and spares 23 6 Raw materials 1 1 27 11 Included in the consolidated income statement are costs of inventories expensed of US$18m 2011: US$32m.
17 Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 2012 2011 US$m US$m Cost and estimated earnings 10,619 12,066 Less: billings 9,963 11,454 Work in progress 656 612 Billings 5,790 2,856 Less: cost and estimated earnings 5,462 2,467 Billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 328 389 Total cost and estimated earnings 16,081 14,533 Total billings 15,753 14,310 18 Trade and other receivables 2012 2011 US$m US$m Trade receivables 1,227 869 Retentions receivable 180 71 Advances 144 216 Prepayments and deposits 41 31 Receivables from joint venture partners 268 131 Other receivables 55 35 1,915 1,353 Other receivables mainly consist of Value Added Tax recoverable of US$46m 2011: US$8m with the balance being miscellaneous nontrading receivables.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 133 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 60 days terms.
Trade receivables are reported net of provision for impairment.
The movements in the provision for impairment against trade receivables totalling US$1,227m 2011: US$869m are as follows: 2012 2011 Specific General Specific General impairment impairment Total impairment impairment Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 21 3 3 3 6 Charge for the year 22 Amounts written-off 2 2 1 2 3 At 31 December 2 1 3 2 1 3 At 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Number of days past due Neither past due nor 30 3160 6190 91120 121360 360 impaired days days days days days days Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Unimpaired 838 252 58 21 5 24 10 1,208 Impaired 13 5 4 22 838 252 58 21 18 29 14 1,230 Less: impairment provision 1 1 1 3 Net trade receivables 2012 838 252 58 21 17 28 13 1,227 Unimpaired 570 156 109 14 4 13 1 867 Impaired 2 2 1 5 570 156 109 14 6 15 2 872 Less: impairment provision 2 1 3 Net trade receivables 2011 570 156 109 14 6 13 1 869 The credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired is assessed by management with reference to externally prepared customer credit reports and the historic payment track records of the counterparties.
Advances represent payments made to certain of the Groups subcontractors for projects in progress, on which the related work had not been performed at the statement of financial position date.
The decrease in advances during 2012 relates to the unwinding of advances on more mature contracts in the Onshore Engineering & Construction reporting segment.
Receivables from joint venture partners are amounts recoverable from venture partners on the Berantai FPSO, Block PM304 and Petrofac Emirates on an engineering, procurement and construction project.
All trade and other receivables are expected to be settled in cash.
Certain trade and other receivables will be settled in cash using currencies other than the reporting currency of the Group, and will be largely paid in sterling and euros.
19 Cash and short-term deposits 2012 2011 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 398 490 Short-term deposits 216 1,082 Total cash and bank balances 614 1,572 Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and bank balances is US$614m 2011: US$1,572m.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 398 490 Short-term deposits 216 1,082 Bank overdrafts note 24 57 37 557 1,535 134 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 20 Share capital The share capital of the Company as at 31 December was as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Authorised 750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 2011: 750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 15 15 Issued and fully paid 345,891,490 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 2011: 345,821,729 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 7 7 The movement in the number of issued and fully paid ordinary shares is as follows: Number Ordinary shares: Ordinary shares of US$0.020 each at 1 January 2011 345,715,053 Issued during the year as further contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of a subsidiary 106,676 Ordinary shares of US$0.020 each at 1 January 2012 345,821,729 Issued during the year as further contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of a subsidiary 69,761 Ordinary shares of US$0.020 each at 31 December 2012 345,891,490 The share capital comprises only one class of ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares carry a voting right and the right to a dividend.
Share premium: The balance on the share premium account represents the amount received in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares.
Capital redemption reserve: The balance on the capital redemption reserve represents the aggregated nominal value of the ordinary shares repurchased and cancelled.
21 Treasury shares For the purpose of making awards under its employee share schemes, the Company acquires its own shares which are held by the Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust and the Petrofac Joint Venture Companies Employee Benefit Trust.
All these shares have been classified in the statement of financial position as treasury shares within equity.
The movements in total treasury shares are shown below: 2012 2011 Number US$m Number US$m At 1 January 5,736,017 75 6,757,339 65 Acquired during the year 3,000,000 76 2,074,138 49 Vested during the year 3,269,804 51 3,095,460 39 At 31 December 5,466,213 100 5,736,017 75 Shares vested during the year include dividend shares and 8% uplift adjustment made in respect of the EnQuest demerger of 375,040 shares 2011: 393,344 shares.
22 Share-based payment plans Performance Share Plan PSP Under the Companys Performance Share Plan, share awards are granted to Executive Directors and a restricted number of other senior executives of the Group.
The shares vest at the end of three years subject to continued employment and the achievement of certain predefined market and non-market-based performance conditions.
The 50% market performance based part of these awards is dependent on the total shareholder return TSR of the Group, compared with an index composed of selected relevant companies.
The fair value of the shares vesting under this portion of the award is determined by an independent valuer using a Monte Carlo simulation model taking into account the terms and conditions of the plan rules and using the following assumptions at the date of grant: 2012 2011 2010 2009 awards awards awards awards Expected share price volatility based on median of comparator Groups three-year volatilities 38.0% 51.0% 50.0% 49.0% Share price correlation with comparator Group 46.0% 43.0% 39.0% 36.0% Risk-free interest rate 0.4% 1.7% 1.50% 2.10% Expected life of share award 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Fair value of TSR portion 1,103p 788p 743p 456p Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 135 The non-market-based condition governing the vesting of the remaining 50% of the total award is subject to achieving between 10% and 20% earnings per share EPS growth targets over a three-year period.
The fair values of the equity-settled award relating to the EPS part of the scheme are estimated, based on the quoted closing market price per Company share at the date of grant with an assumed vesting rate per annum built into the calculation subsequently trued up at year end based on the actual leaver rate during the period from award date to year end over the three-year vesting period of the plan.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP Under the DBSP selected employees are required to defer a proportion of their annual cash bonus into Company shares Invested Award.
Following such an award, the Company will generally grant the participant an additional award of a number of shares bearing a specified ratio to the number of his or her invested shares Matching Shares, typically using a 1:1 ratio.
Subject to a participants continued employment, invested and matching share awards may either vest 100% on the third anniversary of grant: or alternatively, vest one-third on the first anniversary of the grant, one-third on the second anniversary and the final proportion on the third anniversary.
At the year end the values of the bonuses settled by shares cannot be determined until the Remuneration Committee has approved the portion of the employee bonuses to be settled in shares.
Once the portion of the bonus to be settled in shares is determined, the final bonus liability to be settled in shares is transferred to the reserve for share-based payments.
The costs relating to the Matching Shares are recognised over the corresponding vesting period and the fair values of the equity-settled Matching Shares granted to employees are based on the quoted closing market price at the date of grant with the charge adjusted to reflect the expected vesting rate of the plan.
Share Incentive Plan SIP All UK employees, including UK Executive Directors, are eligible to participate in the SIP.
Employees may invest up to sterling 1,500 per tax year of gross salary or, if lower, 10% of salary to purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
There is no holding period for these shares.
Restricted Share Plan RSP Under the RSP, selected employees are made grants of shares on an ad hoc basis.
The RSP is used primarily, but not exclusively, to make awards to individuals who join the Group part way through the year, having left accrued benefits with a previous employer.
The fair values of the awards granted under the RSP at various grant dates during the year are based on the quoted market price at the date of grant adjusted for an assumed vesting rate over the relevant vesting period.
Value Creation Plan VCP During 2012 the Company introduced a new one-off Value Creation Plan VCP which is a share option scheme for Executive Directors and key senior executives within the Company.
The VCP is a premium priced share option scheme with options granted with an exercise price set at a 10% premium to the grant date price.
Options will vest to the extent of satisfying Group and divisional profit after tax targets, together with various other performance underpins and risk malus provisions that can be imposed at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
The share options vest in equal tranches on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of the original grant date but may be exercised up to eight years from the date of grant.
The VCP share options were fair valued by an independent valuer using a Black-Scholes option pricing model taking into account the rules of the plan and using the following key assumptions: Tranche 1 Tranche 2 Tranche 3 Share price at the date of grant 1,555p 1,555p 1,555p Exercise price 1,710p 1,710p 1,710p Expected lives of the award 6 years 6.5 years 7 years Share price volatility 41% 41% 41% Share price dividend yield 2.3% 2.3% 2.3% Risk-free interest rates 1.1% 1.2% 1.3% Per share fair values 451p 467p 482p Share-based payment plans information The details of the fair values and assumed vesting rates of the share-based payment plans are below: PSP EPS portion DBSP RSP Fair value per Assumed Fair value per Assumed Fair value per Assumed share vesting rate share vesting rate share vesting rate 2012 awards 1,705p 97.0% 1,705p 94.6% 1,555p 89.0% 2011 awards 1,426p 94.3% 1,426p 91.3% 1,463p 90.2% 2010 awards 1,103p 93.8% 1,185p 87.5% 990p 90.5% 2009 awards 545p 93.1% 545p 91.3% 430p 70.0% 136 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 22 Share-based payment plans continued The following table shows the movements in the number of shares held under the share-based payment plans outstanding but not exercisable: PSP DBSP RSP Total VCP 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2012 2011 Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 1,358,046 1,350,189 3,809,746 4,082,311 534,780 1,003,712 5,702,572 6,436,212 Granted during the year 409,212 482,379 1,507,614 1,538,252 227,726 204,402 1,773,713 3,918,265 2,225,033 Vested during the year 535,072 421,309 1,991,385 1,681,130 210,836 664,512 2,737,293 2,766,951 Forfeited during the year 53,213 205,007 129,687 29,499 8,822 234,506 191,722 Outstanding at 31 December 1,232,186 1,358,046 3,120,968 3,809,746 522,171 534,780 1,773,713 6,649,038 5,702,572 Includes Invested and Matching Shares.
The number of outstanding shares excludes the 8% uplift adjustment made in respect of the EnQuest demerger and dividend shares shown below: PSP DBSP RSP Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number EnQuest 8% uplift 47,335 52,037 188,177 4,542 27,982 56,579 263,494 Dividend shares 55,511 68,073 119,699 158,691 14,058 27,090 189,268 253,854 Outstanding at 31 December 55,511 115,408 171,736 346,868 18,600 55,072 245,847 517,348 The charge in respect of share-based payment plans recognised in the consolidated income statement is as follows: PSP DBSP RSP VCP Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Share based payment charge 6 6 15 13 4 4 1 26 23 Represents charge on Matching Shares only.
The Group has recognised a total charge of US$26m 2011: US$23m in the consolidated income statement during the year relating to the above employee share-based schemes see note 4d which has been transferred to the reserve for share-based payments along with US$20m of the bonus liability accrued for the year ended 31 December 2011 which has been settled in shares granted during the year 2011: US$18m.
For further details on the above employee share-based payment schemes refer to pages 92, 96 and 99 to 103 of the Directors Remuneration report.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 137 23 Other reserves Net unrealised Foreign Reserve for gains losses currency share-based on derivatives translation payments Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Balance at 1 January 2011 3 19 57 35 Foreign currency translation losses 16 16 Net gains on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the year 3 3 Net fair value losses on derivatives and financial assets 14 14 designated as cash flow hedges Share-based payments charge note 22 23 23 Transfer during the year note 22 18 18 Shares vested during the year 34 34 Deferred tax on share-based payments reserve 3 3 Balance at 1 January 2012 20 35 61 6 Foreign currency translation 10 10 Net losses on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the year 20 20 Net changes in fair value of derivatives and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges Share-based payments charge note 22 26 26 Transfer during the year note 22 20 20 Shares vested during the year 45 45 Deferred tax on share-based payments reserve 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2012 25 63 38 Nature and purpose of other reserves Net unrealised gains losses on derivatives The portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedging instruments that are determined to be effective hedges is included within this reserve net of related deferred tax effects.
When the hedged transaction occurs or is no longer forecast to occur, the gain or loss is transferred out of equity to the consolidated income statement.
Realised net losses amounting to US$20m 2011: US$3m net gain relating to foreign currency forward contracts and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges have been recognised in cost of sales.
The forward currency points element and ineffective portion of derivative financial instruments relating to forward currency contracts and gains on un-designated derivatives amounting to a net loss of US$2m 2011: US$6m loss have been recognised in the cost of sales.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements in foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the Groups net investment in subsidiaries.
Reserve for share-based payments The reserve for share-based payments is used to record the value of equity-settled share-based payments awarded to employees and transfers out of this reserve are made upon vesting of the original share awards.
The transfer during the year reflects the transfer from accrued expenses within trade and other payables of the bonus liability relating to the year ended 2011 of US$20m 2010 bonus of US$18m which has been voluntarily elected or mandatorily obliged to be settled in shares during the year note 22.
138 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 24 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The Group had the following interest-bearing loans and borrowings outstanding: 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Effective interest 2012 2011 Actual interest rate % Actual interest rate % rate % Maturity US$m US$m Current Bank overdrafts i UK LIBOR 1.50% UK LIBOR 1.50% UK LIBOR on demand 57 37 US LIBOR 1.50% US LIBOR 1.50% 1.50% US LIBOR 1.50% Other loans: Current portion of term loan iii US UK LIBOR n a n a 17 0.875% 2011: 3.16% to 3.96% Current portion of term loan iv US UK LIBOR n a n a 7 0.875% 2011: 1.67% to 3.55% 57 61 Non-current Revolving credit facility ii US LIBOR 1.50% US LIBOR 5 years 303 1.50% Term loan iii US UK LIBOR n a n a 12 0.875% 2011: 3.16% to 3.96% Term loan iv US UK LIBOR n a n a 7 0.875% 2011: 1.67% to 3.55% 303 19 Less: Debt acquisition costs net of accumulated amortisation and effective interest rate adjustments 11 3 292 16 Details of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings are as follows: i Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are drawn down in US dollars and sterling denominations to meet the Groups working capital requirements.
These are repayable on demand.
ii Revolving Credit Facility On 11 September 2012, Petrofac entered into a US$1,200m five year committed revolving credit facility with a syndicate of 13 international banks, which is available for general corporate purposes.
The facility, which matures on 11 September 2017, is unsecured and is subject to two financial covenants relating to leverage and interest cover.
Petrofac was in compliance with these covenants for the year ending 31 December 2012.
As at 31 December 2012, US$303m was drawn under this facility.
Interest is payable on the drawn balance of the facility at LIBOR 1.5% and in addition utilisation fees are payable depending on the level of utilisation.
iii Term loan The loan was repaid in full during 2012 and no amounts were drawn during the year 2011: drawings of US$15m denominated in US dollars and US$15m denominated in sterling.
iv Term loan The loan was repaid in full during 2012 and no amounts were drawn during the year 2011: drawings of US$10m denominated in US dollars and US$4m denominated in sterling.
The Groups credit facilities contain covenants relating to interest and net borrowings cover.
None of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to any material restrictions on their ability to transfer funds in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances to the Company.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 139 25 Provisions Other long-term employment benefits Provision for Other provision decommissioning provisions Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2012 51 6 3 60 Additions during the year 19 27 1 47 Paid in the year 8 1 9 Unwinding of discount 1 1 2 At 31 December 2012 63 33 4 100 Other long-term employment benefits provision Labour laws in the United Arab Emirates require employers to provide for other long-term employment benefits.
These benefits are payable to employees on being transferred to another jurisdiction or on cessation of employment based on their final salary and number of years service.
The long-term employment benefits provision is based on an internally produced end of service benefits valuation model with the key underlying assumptions being as follows: Senior Other employees employees Average number of years of future service 5 3 Average annual % salary increases 6% 4% Discount factor 5% 5% Senior employees are those earning a base of salary of over US$96,000 per annum.
Discount factor used is the local Dubai five-year Sukuk rate.
Provision for decommissioning The decommissioning provision primarily relates to the Groups obligation for the removal of facilities and restoration of the sites at the PM304 field in Malaysia, Chergui in Tunisia and Santuario and Magallanes Production Enhancement Contracts in Mexico.
The liability is discounted at the rate of 4.16% on PM304 2011: 4.16%, 5.25% on Chergui 2011: 5.25% and 5.38% on Santuario and Magallanes Production Enhancement Contracts 2011: n a.
The unwinding of the discount is classified as finance cost note 5.
The Group estimates that the cash outflows against these provisions will arise in 2026 on PM304, 2018 on Chergui and 2029 on Santuario and Magallanes Production Enhancement Contracts.
Other provisions This represents amounts set aside to cover claims against the Group which will be settled via the captive insurance company Jermyn Insurance Company Limited.
26 Other financial liabilities 2012 2011 US$m US$m Other financial liabilities non-current Contingent consideration payable 1 13 Finance lease creditors note 29 6 11 Fair value of derivative instruments note 31 1 Other 8 24 Other financial liabilities current Contingent consideration payable 7 3 Fair value of derivative instruments note 31 3 23 Finance lease creditors note 29 7 5 Other 1 17 32 Contingent consideration payable to the Groups investment in Gateway Storage Company Limited of US$7m note 12 has been reversed during the year.
140 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 27 Trade and other payables 2012 2011 US$m US$m Trade payables 862 477 Advances received from customers 373 770 Accrued expenses 601 415 Other taxes payable 40 24 Other payables 105 56 1,981 1,742 Advances from customers represent payments received for contracts on which the related work had not been performed at the statement of financial position date.
Other payables mainly consist of retentions held against subcontractors of US$86m 2011: US$29m.
Certain trade and other payables will be settled in currencies other than the reporting currency of the Group, mainly in sterling, euros and Kuwaiti dinars.
28 Accrued contract expenses 2012 2011 US$m US$m Accrued contract expenses 743 1,269 29 Commitments and contingencies Commitments In the normal course of business the Group will obtain surety bonds, letters of credit and guarantees, which are contractually required to secure performance, advance payment or in lieu of retentions being withheld.
Some of these facilities are secured by issue of corporate guarantees by the Company in favour of the issuing banks.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had letters of credit of US$ nil 2011: US$6m and outstanding letters of guarantee, including performance, advance payments and bid bonds of US$2,296m 2011: US$2,185m against which the Group had pledged or restricted cash balances of, in aggregate, US$11m 2011: US$2m.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had outstanding forward exchange contracts amounting to US$228m 2011: US$324m.
These commitments consist of future obligations either to acquire or to sell designated amounts of foreign currency at agreed rates and value dates note 31.
Leases The Group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for office space and equipment.
These non-cancellable leases have remaining non-cancellable lease terms of between one and 17 years and, for certain property leases, are subject to renegotiation at various intervals as specified in the lease agreements.
The future minimum rental commitments under these non-cancellable leases are as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Within one year 25 24 After one year but not more than five years 108 45 More than five years 198 49 331 118 Included in the above are commitments relating to the leasing of an FPSO for the Cendor Phase 2 project of US$149m 2011: US$ nil and the lease of office buildings in Aberdeen, United Kingdom of US$127m 2011: US$34m.
Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense during the year amounted to US$37m 2011: US$37m.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 141 Long-term finance lease commitments are as follows: Future minimum lease Present payments Finance cost value US$m US$m US$m Land, buildings and leasehold improvements 14 1 13 The commitments are as follows: Within one year 8 1 7 After one year but not more than five years 6 6 More than five years 14 1 13 Capital commitments At 31 December 2012, the Group had capital commitments of US$493m 2011: US$480m excluding the above lease commitments.
Included in the US$493m of commitments are: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Production Enhancement Contracts in Mexico 146 225 Costs to refurbish the Berantai FPSO in Malaysia 89 Further appraisal and development of wells as part of Block PM304 in Malaysia 287 111 Costs in respect of Ithaca Greater Stella Field development in the North Sea 50 Production Enhancement Contract on the Ticleni field in Romania 25 Commitments in respect of the construction of a new office building in United Arab Emirates 5 21 30 Related party transactions The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Petrofac Limited and the subsidiaries listed in note 32.
Petrofac Limited is the ultimate parent entity of the Group.
The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties: Purchases Amounts Amounts Sales to from owed owed related related by related to related parties parties parties parties US$m US$m US$m US$m Joint ventures 2012 170 135 5 38 2011 323 187 95 23 Associates 2012 3 17 2011 14 4 Key management personnel interests 2012 2 2011 2 All sales to and purchases from joint ventures are made at normal market prices and the pricing policies and terms of these transactions are approved by the Groups management.
All related party balances will be settled in cash.
Purchases in respect of key management personnel interests of US$1,521,000 2011: US$1,411,000 reflect the costs of chartering the services of an aeroplane used for the transport of senior management and Directors of the Group on company business, which is owned by an offshore trust of which the Group Chief Executive of the Company is a beneficiary.
The charter rates charged for Group usage of the aeroplane are significantly less than comparable market rates.
Also included in purchases in respect of key management personnel interests is US$189,000 2011: US$180,000 relating to client entertainment provided by a business owned by a member of the Groups key management.
For details of the rights issue by Seven Energy and the warrants held see note 12 to the financial statements.
142 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 30 Related party transactions continued Compensation of key management personnel The following details remuneration of key management personnel of the Group comprising Executive and Non-executive Directors of the Company and other senior personnel.
Further information relating to the individual Directors is provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 88 to 103.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Short-term employee benefits 21 20 Share-based payments 8 8 Fees paid to Non-executive Directors 1 1 30 29 31 Risk management and financial instruments Risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise available-for-sale financial assets, trade and other receivables, amounts due from to related parties, cash and short-term deposits, work-in-progress, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, trade and other payables and contingent consideration.
The Groups activities expose it to various financial risks particularly associated with interest rate risk on its variable rate cash and short-term deposits, loans and borrowings and foreign currency risk on both conducting business in currencies other than reporting currency as well as translation of the assets and liabilities of foreign operations to the reporting currency.
These risks are managed from time to time by using a combination of various derivative instruments, principally forward currency contracts in line with the Groups hedging policies.
The Group has a policy not to enter into speculative trading of financial derivatives.
The Board of Directors of the Company has established an Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee to help identify, evaluate and manage the significant financial risks faced by the Group and their activities are discussed in detail on pages 78 to 87.
The other main risks besides interest rate and foreign currency risk arising from the Groups financial instruments are credit risk, liquidity risk and commodity price risk and the policies relating to these risks are discussed in detail below: Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect the value of the Groups interest-bearing financial liabilities and assets.
The Groups exposure to market risk arising from changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Groups long-term variable rate debt obligations and its cash and bank balances.
The Groups policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt.
The Groups cash and bank balances are at floating rates of interest.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis The impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and equity due to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on loans and borrowings at the reporting date is demonstrated in the table below.
The analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
Pre-tax profit Equity 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis point point point point increase decrease increase decrease US$m US$m US$m US$m 31 December 2012 2 2 31 December 2011 1 1 The following table reflects the maturity profile of these financial liabilities and assets: Year ended 31 December 2012 Within 12 23 34 45 More than 1 year years years years years 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Floating rates Bank overdrafts note 24 57 57 Term loans note 24 303 303 57 303 360 Financial assets Floating rates Cash and short-term deposits note 19 614 614 Restricted cash balances note 14 47 11 618 7 625 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 143 Year ended 31 December 2011 Within 12 23 34 45 More than 1 year years years years years 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Floating rates Bank overdrafts note 24 37 37 Term loans note 24 24 19 43 6119 80 Financial assets Floating rates Cash and short-term deposits note 19 1,572 1,572 Restricted cash balances note 14 2 2 1,574 1,574 Financial liabilities in the above table are disclosed gross of debt acquisition costs and effective interest rate adjustments of US$11m 2011: US$3m.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases, and translation of assets and liabilities that are in a currency other than the functional currency of its operating units.
The Group is also exposed to the translation of the functional currencies of its units to the US dollar reporting currency of the Group.
The following table summarises the percentage of foreign currency denominated revenues, costs, financial assets and financial liabilities, expressed in US dollar terms, of the Group totals.
2012 2011 % of foreign % of foreign currency currency denominated denominated items items Revenues 34.5% 36.4% Costs 54.7% 57.7% Current financial assets 37.8% 32.5% Non-current financial assets 0.0% 0.0% Current financial liabilities 33.9% 34.7% Non-current financial liabilities 2.7% 54.2% The Group uses forward currency contracts to manage the currency exposure on transactions significant to its operations.
It is the Groups policy not to enter into forward contracts until a highly probable forecast transaction is in place and to negotiate the terms of the derivative instruments used for hedging to match the terms of the hedged item to maximise hedge effectiveness.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The income statements of foreign operations are translated into the reporting currency using a weighted average exchange rate of conversion.
Foreign currency monetary items are translated using the closing rate at the reporting date.
Revenues and costs in currencies other than the functional currency of an operating unit are recorded at the prevailing rate at the date of the transaction.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year in relation to US dollars: 2012 2011 Average Closing Average Closing rate rate rate rate Sterling 1.59 1.63 1.60 1.55 Kuwaiti dinar 3.57 3.55 3.62 3.59 Euro 1.29 1.32 1.40 1.30 The following table summarises the impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and equity due to change in the fair value of monetary assets, liabilities and derivative instruments of a reasonably possible change in US dollar exchange rates with respect to different currencies: Pre-tax profit Equity 10% US 10% US 10% US 10% US dollar rate dollar rate dollar rate dollar rate increase decrease increase decrease US$m US$m US$m US$m 31 December 2012 10 10 19 19 31 December 2011 4 4 50 50 144 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 31 Risk management and financial instruments continued Derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges At 31 December 2012, the Group had foreign exchange forward contracts as follows: Contract value Fair value undesignated Fair value designated Net unrealised gain loss 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Euro purchases 67 223 10 8 Sterling sales purchases 103 40 2 2 1 Yen sales 4 4 Singapore dollar purchases 46 1 1 2 13 10 The above foreign exchange contracts mature and will affect income between January 2013 and July 2014 2011: between January 2012 and July 2013.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had cash and short-term deposits designated as cash flow hedges with net unrealised gains losses of US$ nil 2011: US$9m loss as follows: Fair value Net unrealised gain loss 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m Euro cash and short-term deposits 118 181 9 Sterling cash and short-term deposits 7 15 Yen cash and short-term deposits 1 3 Swiss francs cash and short-term deposits 9 During 2012, changes in fair value gains of US$2m 2011: losses US$14m relating to these derivative instruments and financial assets were taken to equity and US$18m of losses 2011: US$3m gains were recycled from equity into cost of sales in the income statement.
The forward points and ineffective portions of the above foreign exchange forward contracts and loss on un-designated derivatives of US$2m 2011: US$6m loss were recognised in the income statement note 4b.
Commodity price risk oil prices The Group is exposed to the impact of changes in oil and gas prices on its revenues and profits generated from sales of crude oil and gas.
The Groups policy is to manage its exposure to the impact of changes in oil and gas prices using derivative instruments, primarily swaps and collars.
Hedging is only undertaken once sufficiently reliable and regular long-term forecast production data is available.
During the year the Group entered into various crude oil swaps and zero cost collars hedging oil production of 1,000,000 barrels bbl 2011: 163,766 bbl with maturities ranging from January 2013 to December 2013.
In addition, fuel oil swaps were also entered into for hedging gas production of 31,743 metric tonnes MT 2011: 21,100MT with maturities from January 2013 to September 2013.
The fair value of oil derivatives at 31 December 2012 was US$ nil 2011: US$1m liability with net unrealised losses deferred in equity of US$ nil 2011 US$ nil.
During the year, losses of US$2m 2011: US$ nil loss were recycled from equity into the consolidated income statement on the occurrence of the hedged transactions and a loss in the fair value recognised in equity of US$2m 2011: US$ nil.
The following table summarises the impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and equity due to a change in the fair value of oil derivative instruments and the underlifting asset overlifting liability of a reasonably possible change in the oil price: Pre-tax profit Equity 10 10 10 10 US$ bbl US$ bbl US$ bbl US$ bbl increase decrease increase decrease US$m US$m US$m US$m 31 December 2012 12 12 31 December 2011 1 1 2 2 Credit risk The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties.
Business Unit Risk Review Committees BURRC evaluates the creditworthiness of each individual third-party at the time of entering into new contracts.
Limits have been placed on the approval authority of the BURRC above which the approval of the Board of Directors of the Company is required.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with appropriate follow-up action taken where necessary.
At 31 December 2012, the Groups five largest customers accounted for 48.8% of outstanding trade receivables and work in progress 2011: 47.1%.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial assets and certain derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 145 Liquidity risk The Groups primary objective is to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to support future growth.
Our strategy includes the provision of financial capital and the potential impact on the Groups capital structure is reviewed regularly.
The Group is not exposed to any external capital constraints.
The maturity profiles of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2012 are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2012 Contractual 6 months 612 12 25 More than undiscounted Carrying or less months years years 5 years cash flows amount US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 57 303 360 349 Finance lease creditors 8 6 14 13 Trade and other payables excluding advances from customers and other taxes payable 1,464 104 1,568 1,568 Due to related parties 38 38 38 Contingent consideration 1 6 2 9 8 Derivative instruments 3 1 4 4 Interest payments 43 66 19 1,567 121 15 309 2,012 1,980 Year ended 31 December 2011 Contractual 6 months 612 12 25 More than undiscounted Carrying or less months years years 5 years cash flows amount US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 48 12 20 80 77 Finance lease creditors 6 11 17 16 Trade and other payables excluding advances from customers and other taxes payable 932 16 948 948 Due to related parties 23 23 23 Contingent consideration 2 2 13 17 16 Derivative instruments 20 3 23 23 1,0253944 1,108 1,103 The Group uses various funded facilities provided by banks and its own financial assets to fund the above mentioned financial liabilities.
Capital management The Groups policy is to maintain a healthy capital base to sustain future growth and maximise shareholder value.
The Group seeks to optimise shareholder returns by maintaining a balance between debt and capital and monitors the efficiency of its capital structure on a regular basis.
The gearing ratio and return on shareholders equity is as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Cash and short-term deposits 614 1,572 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings A 349 77 Net cash B 265 1,495 Equity attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders C 1,549 1,112 Profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders D 632 540 Gross gearing ratio A C 22.5% 6.9% Net gearing ratio B C Net cash Net cash position position Shareholders return on investment D C 40.8% 48.6% 146 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 31 Risk management and financial instruments continued Fair values of financial assets and liabilities The fair value of the Groups financial instruments and their carrying amounts included within the Groups statement of financial position are set out below: Carrying amount Fair value 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and short-term deposits 614 1,572 614 1,572 Restricted cash 11 2 11 2 Seven Energy warrants 12 18 12 18 Forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 1 9 1 9 Forward currency contracts undesignated 1 1 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 349 77 360 80 Contingent consideration 8 16 8 16 Oil derivative 1 1 Forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 1 22 1 22 Forward currency contracts undesignated 3 3 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities Market values have been used to determine the fair values of available-for-sale financial assets, forward currency contracts and oil derivatives.
The fair value of warrants over equity instruments in Seven Energy has been calculated using a Black Scholes option valuation model note 12.
The fair values of long-term interest-bearing loans and borrowings are equivalent to their amortised costs determined as the present value of discounted future cash flows using the effective interest rate.
The Company considers that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables, work-in-progress, trade and other payables, other current and non-current financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair values and are therefore excluded from the above table.
Fair value hierarchy The following financial instruments are measured at fair value using the hierarchy below for determination and disclosure of their respective fair values: Tier 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or liabilities Tier 2: Other valuation techniques where the inputs are based on all observation data directly or indirectly Tier 3: Other valuation techniques where the inputs are based on unobservable market data Year ended 31 December 2012 Tier 3 Tier 2 US$m US$m Financial assets Seven Energy warrants 12 Forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 1 Forward currency contracts undesignated 1 Financial liabilities Forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 1 Forward currency contracts undesignated 3 Year ended 31 December 2011 Tier 2 US$m Financial assets Seven Energy warrants 18 Forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 9 Forward currency contracts undesignated Financial liabilities Forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 21 Forward currency contracts undesignated 1 Oil derivative 1 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 147 32 Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures At 31 December 2012, the Group had investments in the following subsidiaries and incorporated joint ventures: Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group Name of company Country of incorporation 2012 2011 Trading subsidiaries Petrofac Algeria EURL Algeria 100 100 Petrofac Cyprus Limited Cyprus 100 100 CO DeepStore Aspen Limited England 100 100 2 Eclipse Petroleum Technology Limited England 100 100 K W Limited England 100 Oilennium Limited England 100 Petrofac Malaysia-PM304 Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Contracting Limited England 100 Petrofac Engineering Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Services Limited England 100 100 Petrofac UK Holdings Limited England 100 100 The New Energy Industries Limited England 100 100 TNEI Services Limited England 100 100 Caltec Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments UK Limited England 100 100 Jermyn Insurance Company Limited Guernsey 100 100 Petrofac Engineering India Private Limited India 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Services India Private Limited India 100 100 Petrofac Information Services Private Limited India 100 100 PT.
PCI Indonesia Indonesia 80 80 Petrofac Iran PJSC Iran 100 Petrofac Pars PJSC Iran 100 CO DeepStore Holdings Limited Jersey 100 100 2 1 FPF1 Limited Jersey 25 100 Monsoon Shipmanagement Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Ohanet Jersey Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments International Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments West Africa Limited Jersey 100 Petrofac Facilities Management International Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac FPF004 Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac FPSO Holding Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac GSA Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac International Ltd Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Offshore Management Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Platform Management Services Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Training International Limited Jersey 100 100 Petroleum Facilities E & C Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrokyrgyzstan Limited Kyrgyzstan 100 100 Petrofac E&C Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 Petrofac FPF005 Limited Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac Training Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 PFMAP Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 1 Associate in 2012 148 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 32 Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures continued Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group Name of company Country of incorporation 2012 2011 Trading subsidiaries continued SPD Well Engineering Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 H&L SPD Americas S. fide R. L. Mexico 100 Petrofac Mexico SA fide CV Mexico 100 100 Petrofac Mexico Servicios SA fide CV Mexico 100 100 Petro-SPM Integrated Services S. A. fide C. V. Mexico 50 Petrofac Kazakhstan B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Mexico Holdings B. V. Netherlands 100 Petrofac Netherlands Cooperatief U.
A. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Netherlands Holdings B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Treasury B. V. Netherlands 100 100 PTS B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Energy Services Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100 Petrofac International Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100 100 KW Norge AS Norway 100 100 Petrofac Norge AS Norway 100 100 Petrofac E&C Oman LLC Oman 100 100 Petrofac Solutions & Facilities Support S. R. L Romania 100 100 PKT Technical Services Ltd Russia 50 50 PKT Training Services Ltd Russia 100 100 Sakhalin Technical Training Centre Russia 80 80 Petrofac Saudi Arabia Company Limited Saudi Arabia 100 100 Atlantic Resourcing Limited Scotland 100 100 CO DeepStore Limited Scotland 100 100 2 Petrofac Facilities Management Group Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Facilities Management Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Limited Scotland 100 100 Scotvalve Services Limited Scotland 100 100 SPD Limited Scotland 100 100 Stephen Gillespie Consultants Limited Scotland 100 100 i Perform Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Group Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Holdings Limited Scotland 100 100 Plant Asset Management Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac FPF003 Pte Limited Singapore 100 100 Petrofac South East Asia Pte Ltd Singapore 100 100 Petrofac Training Institute Pte Limited Singapore 100 100 Petrofac International South Africa Pty Limited South Africa 100 100 Petrofac E&C International Limited United Arab Emirates 100 100 Petrofac FZE United Arab Emirates 100 100 Petrofac International UAE LLC United Arab Emirates 100 100 SPD LLC United Arab Emirates 49 49 Petrofac Energy Developments Ohanet LLC United States 100 100 Petrofac Inc. United States 100 100 Petrofac Training Inc. United States 100 100 SPD Group Limited British Virgin Islands 100 100
