Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2012 1.
General information Going concern Accordingly, the Directors have a reasonable The Group monitors and manages its liquidity expectation that the Group has adequate Petropavlovsk PLC the Company is a risk on an ongoing basis.
Cash forecasts are resources to continue in operational existence company incorporated and registered in regularly produced and sensitivities run for for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue England and Wales.
The address of the different scenarios including, but not limited to adopt the going concern basis of accounting registered ofce is 11 Grosvenor Place, to, changes in commodity prices, different in preparing these consolidated financial London SW1X 7HH.
production rates from the Groups producing statements.
assets and the timing of expenditure on 2. significant accounting policies development projects.
The Group meets its Exceptional items capital requirements through a combination Exceptional items are those significant items 2.1.
Basis of preparation and presentation of sources including cash generated from of income and expense, which due to their The consolidated financial statements of operations and external debt.
nature or the expected infrequency of the Petropavlovsk PLC and its subsidiaries events that give rise to these items should, the Group have been prepared in In a declining gold price environment, the in the opinion of the Directors, be disclosed accordance with International Financial Group may be exposed to breaches of certain separately to enable better understanding Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by financial covenants.
As part of a number of of the financial performance of the Group.
the European Union, IFRIC Interpretations and alternatives to proactively address this risk, the the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated Group has entered into nancing contracts to 2.2.
Adoption of new and revised financial statements have been prepared secure the average realised gold price for a standards and interpretations under the historical cost convention, as total of 399,000oz of gold over the period of There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations modied by the revaluation of available-for-sale 14 months ending in March 2014 at the level that are effective for the first time in the current financial investments, financial assets and of US$1,663 oz note 35 and negotiated the reporting period that had a significant impact financial liabilities including derivative investment in IRC Limited note 35 which will on the amounts reported in these consolidated instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
have the impact of deconsolidating IRC Limited financial statements.
The principal accounting policies applied in the and its subsidiaries IRC and its debt.
preparation of these consolidated financial New standards, amendments and statements are set out below.
These policies Taking into account the aforementioned and interpretations that are applicable to the have been consistently applied to all years further mitigating actions that the Group could Group, issued but not yet effective for the presented, unless otherwise stated.
take in the event of adverse changes, the reporting period beginning 1 January 2013 Group expects to be able to operate within the and not early adopted are set out below.
level of its secured facilities for the subsequent 12 months from the date of approval of the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts.
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine 1 January 2013 IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards 1 January 2013 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures amendment 1 January 2013 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2013 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2013 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 IAS 19 Employee Benets amendment 1 January 2013 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements amendment 1 January 2013 IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures amendment 1 January 2013 IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting amendment 1 January 2013 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation amendment 1 January 2014 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2015 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 125 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 2. significant accounting Inter-company transactions, balances and Identiable assets acquired and liabilities and policies continued unrealised gains on transactions between contingent liabilities assumed in a business Group companies are eliminated on combination are measured initially at their fair The Directors do not expect that the adoption consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also values at the acquisition date.
of the standards, amendments and eliminated unless the transaction provides interpretations listed above will have a material evidence of an impairment of the asset The Group recognises any non-controlling impact on the Groups financial statements, transferred.
Where necessary, adjustments interest in the acquiree at fair value or at the except as set out below: are made to the financial statements of non-controlling interests proportionate share subsidiaries to ensure consistency of of the acquirees net assets, on an acquisitionIFRS 9 introduces new requirements for accounting policies with the policies by-acquisition basis.
classifying and measuring financial assets adopted by the Group.
and will impact both measurement and The excess of the consideration transferred disclosure of financial instruments: Non-controlling interests in the net assets the amount of any non-controlling interest in IFRS 12 will impact the disclosure of Groups of consolidated subsidiaries are identied the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value interests in other entities: separately from the Groups equity therein.
of any previous equity interest in the acquiree The interests of non-controlling shareholders over the fair value of the Groups share of the IFRS 13 will impact the measurement of fair may be initially measured at fair value or at the identiable net assets acquired are recorded value for certain assets and liabilities as well non-controlling interests proportionate share as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of as the associated disclosures: of the fair value of the acquirees identiable the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in IFRIC 20 will impact asset recognition net assets.
The choice of measurement is the case of a bargain purchase, the difference criteria and classication of costs from a made on an  basis.
is recognised directly in the statement of stripping activity which provide improved Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying recognised income and expenses.
access to the ore body as well as amount of non-controlling interests is the amortisation period.
amount of those interests at initial recognition 2.5.
Non-controlling interests plus the non-controlling interests share The group treats transactions with nonThe Directors are assessing the impact of the of subsequent changes in equity.
The controlling interests as transactions with equity standards above.
recognised income and expense are attributed owners.
For purchases from non-controlling to non-controlling interests even if this results interests, the difference between any 2.3.
Basis of consolidation in the non-controlling interests having a consideration paid and the relevant share These consolidated financial statements deficit balance.
acquired of the carrying value of net assets of consist of the financial statements of the the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or Company and the entities controlled by the 2.4. Business combinations losses on disposals to non-controlling Company its subsidiaries as at the balance The Group uses the acquisition method interests are also recorded in equity.
of accounting to account for business combinations.
Acquisition of assets Subsidiaries are all entities over which for each acquisition is measured at the Frequently, the acquisition of mining licences the Group has the power to govern the aggregate of the fair values of the assets is effected through a non-operating corporate financial and operating policies, generally transferred, the liabilities incurred and the structure.
As these structures do not represent accompanying a shareholding of more than equity interests issued by the Group.
Where a business, it is considered that the one half of the voting rights.
The existence and applicable, the consideration transferred transactions do not meet the denition of a effect of potential voting rights that are currently includes the fair value of any asset or liability business combination.
Accordingly the exercisable or convertible are considered when arising from a contingent consideration transaction is accounted for as the acquisition assessing whether the Group controls another arrangement.
Acquisition-related costs are of an asset.
The net assets acquired are entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date on which control ceases.
126 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Where the Group has full control but does not The Groups share of its joint ventures Any excess of the cost of acquisition over own 100% of the assets, then non-controlling post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised the Groups share of the net fair value of the interests are recognised at an equivalent in the income statement and its share of identiable assets, liabilities and contingent amount based on the Groups cost, the assets post-acquisition movements in reserves is liabilities of the associate recognised at the continue to be carried at cost and changes in recognised in reserves.
The cumulative date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
those values are recognised in equity.
post-acquisition movements are adjusted The goodwill is included within the carrying against the carrying amount of the investment amount of the investment and is assessed 2.7.
Interests in joint ventures in joint ventures.
for impairment as part of that investment.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement Any excess of the Groups share of the net whereby the Group and other parties 2.8.
Investments in associates fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities undertake an economic activity that is subject An associate is an entity over which the Group and contingent liabilities over the cost of to joint control i. e. when the strategic financial is in a position to exercise significant inuence acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised and operating policy decisions relating to the and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest immediately in profit or loss.
activities of the joint venture require the in a joint venture.
significant inuence is unanimous consent of the parties sharing the power to participate in the financial and When a Group entity transacts with an control.
Joint venture arrangements that operating policy decisions of the investee but is associate of the Group, profits and losses involve the establishment of a separate entity not control or joint control over those policies.
are eliminated to the extent of the Groups in which each venturer has an interest are interest in the relevant associate.
Losses may referred to as jointly controlled entities.
Investments in associates are accounted provide evidence of an impairment of the for using the equity method of accounting, asset transferred in which case appropriate The Groups interests in jointly controlled except when the investment is classied as provision is made for the impairment.
entities are accounted for by using the equity held for sale, in which case it is accounted method of accounting, except when the for in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current 2.9.
Non-current assets held for sale investment is classied as held for sale, in Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Non-current assets and disposal groups which case it is accounted for in accordance Operations.
Investments in associates are classied as held for sale are measured at with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale carried in the balance sheet at cost as the lower of carrying amount and fair value and Discontinued Operations.
Interests in joint adjusted by post-acquisition changes in less costs to sell.
ventures are carried in the balance sheet at the Groups share of the net assets of the cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes associate, less any impairment in the Non-current assets and disposal groups in the Groups share of the net assets of the value of individual investments.
Losses of are classied as held for sale if their carrying associate, less any impairment in the value an associate in excess of the Groups interest amount will be recovered through a sale of individual investments.
in that associate which includes any long-term transaction rather than through continuing interests that, in substance, form part of the use.
This condition is regarded as met only Any excess of the cost of acquisition over Groups net investment in the associate are when the sale is highly probable and the asset the Groups share of the net fair value of the recognised only to the extent that the Group or disposal group is available for immediate identiable assets, liabilities and contingent has incurred legal or constructive obligations sale in its present condition.
Management liabilities of the jointly controlled entity or made payments on behalf of the associate.
must be committed to the sale, which should recognised at the date of acquisition is be expected to qualify for recognition as a recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is completed sale within one year from the date included within the carrying amount of the of classication.
investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 127 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 2. significant accounting For the purpose of presenting consolidated Goodwill is allocated to those cash-generating policies continued financial statements, the assets and liabilities units or groups of cash-generating units that of the Groups foreign operations which have a are expected to benefit from the synergies of When the Group is committed to a sale plan functional currency other than US Dollars are the business combination in which the involving loss of control of a subsidiary, all of translated at exchange rates prevailing on the goodwill arose.
the assets and liabilities of that subsidiary are balance sheet date.
Income and expense classied as held for sale when the criteria items are translated at the average exchange The excess of the acquirers interest in the described above are met, regardless of rates for the year, unless exchange rates net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities whether the Group will retain a non-controlling uctuate signicantly during that year, in and contingent liabilities acquired over cost interest in its former subsidiary after the sale.
which case the exchange rates at the date of is recognised immediately in the income transactions are used.
Foreign currency translation arising, if any, are recognised in other Items included in the financial statements of comprehensive income and expenses and 2.12.
Intangible assets each of the Groups entities are measured accumulated in equity, with share attributed Exploration and evaluation expenditure using the currency of the primary economic to non-controlling interests as appropriate.
and mineral rights acquired environment in which the entity operates the On the disposal of a foreign operation, all Exploration and evaluation expenditure functional currency.
For the purpose of the of the accumulated exchange differences in incurred in relation to those projects where consolidated financial statements, the results respect of that operation attributable to the such expenditure is considered likely to be and financial position of each Group company shareholders of the Company are reclassied recoverable through future extraction activity are expressed in US Dollars, which is the to profit or loss.
or sale, or where the exploration activities Groups presentation currency.
The functional have not reached a stage which permits a currency of the Company is the US Dollar.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising reasonable assessment of the existence of on the acquisition of a foreign operation are reserves, are capitalised and recorded on the In preparing the financial statements of treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign balance sheet within intangible assets for the individual companies, transactions in operation.
mining projects at the exploration stage.
currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are translated 2.11.
Goodwill Exploration and evaluation expenditure into the functional currency using the Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of comprise costs directly attributable to: exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups Researching and analysing existing transactions or valuation where items are share of the net identiable assets of a exploration data: remeasured.
Foreign exchange gains and subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the losses resulting from the settlement of such date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisition of Conducting geological studies, exploratory transactions and from the translation at the a subsidiary is included in non-current assets drilling and sampling: year-end exchange rates of monetary assets as a separate line item.
Goodwill is tested Examining and testing extraction and and liabilities denominated in foreign annually for impairment and carried at cost treatment methods: currencies are recognised in the income less accumulated impairment losses.
Non-monetary items carried at Impairment losses on goodwill are not Compiling pre-feasibility and feasibility fair value that are denominated in foreign reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal studies: and currencies are translated at the rates of an entity include the carrying amount of Costs incurred in acquiring mineral rights, prevailing at the date when the fair value was goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill on the entry premiums paid to gain access to determined.
Non-monetary items that are acquisition of an associate or a joint venture is areas of interest and amounts payable to measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign included in the carrying amount of investment third parties to acquire interests in existing currency are not retranslated.
and is tested for impairment as part of the projects.
The rates of exchange used to translate balances from other currencies into US Dollars were as follows currency per US Dollar : As at Average year ended As at Average year ended 31 December 2012 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 31 December 2011 GB Pounds Sterling GBP : US$ 0.62 0.63 0.65 0.62 Russian Rouble RUR : US$ 30.37 31.07 32.20 29.39 128 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Mineral rights acquired through a business Development expenditure Mining assets, except for those related to combination or an asset acquisition are Development expenditure incurred by or on alluvial gold operations, where economic capitalised separately from goodwill if the behalf of the Group is accumulated separately benets from the asset are consumed in a asset is separable or arises from contractual or for each area of interest in which economically pattern which is linked to the production level, legal rights and the fair value can be measured recoverable resources have been identied.
are depreciated using a units of production reliably on initial recognition.
Such expenditure includes costs directly method based on the volume of ore reserves, attributable to the construction of a mine and which results in a depreciation charge Exploration and evaluation expenditure the related infrastructure.
Once a development proportional to the depletion of reserves.
capitalised and mining rights acquired are decision has been taken, the carrying amount The basis for determining ore reserve subsequently valued at cost less impairment.
of the exploration and evaluation expenditure estimates is set out in note 3.1.
Where the In circumstances where a project is in respect of the area of interest is aggregated mining plan anticipates future capital abandoned, the cumulative capitalised costs with the development expenditure and expenditure to support the mining activity over related to the project are written off in the classied under non-current assets as mine the life of the mine, the depreciable amount is period when such decision is made.
Mine development costs adjusted for such estimated future are reclassied as mining assets at the end of expenditure.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure the commissioning phase, when the mine is capitalised and mining rights within intangible capable of operating in the manner intended Certain property, plant and equipment within assets are not depreciated.
These assets are by management.
No depreciation is mining assets are depreciated based on transferred to mine development costs within recognised in respect of mine development estimated useful lives, if shorter than the property, plant and equipment when a costs until they are reclassied as mining remaining life of the mine or if such property, decision is taken to proceed with the assets.
Mine development costs are tested for plant and equipment can be moved to another development of the project.
impairment in accordance with the policy in site subsequent to the mine closure.
Property, plant and equipment Mining assets related to alluvial gold Land and buildings, plant and equipment Subsequent costs are included in the assets operations are depreciated on a straight-line On initial recognition, land, property, plant carrying amount or recognised as a separate basis based on estimated useful lives.
and equipment are valued at cost, being the asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable purchase price and the directly attributable that future economic benets associated with Non-mining assets are depreciated on a cost of acquisition or construction required to the item will ow to the Group and the cost of straight-line basis based on estimated useful bring the asset to the location and condition the item can be measured reliably.
necessary for the asset to be capable of repairs and maintenance are charged to the operating in the manner intended by the Group.
income statement during the financial period in Mine development costs and capital which they are incurred.
construction in progress are not depreciated, Assets in the course of construction are except for that property plant and equipment capitalised in the capital construction in Depreciation used in the development of a mine.
On completion, the cost of Property, plant and equipment are property, plant and equipment are depreciated construction is transferred to the appropriate depreciated using a units of production on a straight-line basis based on estimated category of property, plant and equipment.
method or on a straight-line basis as set useful lives and depreciation is capitalised as out below.
part of mine development costs.
Estimated useful lives normally vary as set out below.
Average life Number of years Buildings 1550 Plant and machinery 320 Vehicles 57 Ofce equipment 510 Computer equipment 35 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 129 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 2. significant accounting IAS 36 Impairment of Assets includes a 2.15.
Deferred stripping costs policies continued number of restrictions on the future cash ows In open pit mining operations, removal of that can be recognised in respect of future overburden and other waste materials, Residual values and useful lives are reviewed restructurings and improvement related capital referred to as stripping, is required to obtain and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance expenditure.
When calculating value in use, access to the ore body.
Changes to the estimated residual it also requires that calculations should be values or useful lives are accounted for based on exchange rates current at the time Stripping costs incurred during the prospectively.
development of the mine are capitalised as part of mine development costs and are 2.14.
Impairment of non-financial assets For operations with a functional currency other subsequently depreciated over the life of a Property, plant and equipment and nite life than the US Dollar, the impairment review is mine on a units of production basis.
intangible assets are reviewed by undertaken in the relevant functional currency.
management for impairment if there is any These estimates are based on detailed mine Stripping costs incurred during the production indication that the carrying amount may not be plans and operating budgets, modied as phase of a mine are deferred as part of cost of recoverable.
This applies to the Groups share appropriate to meet the requirements of IAS inventory and are written off to the income of the assets held by the joint ventures as well 36 Impairment of Assets.
statement in the period over which economic as the assets held by the Group itself.
benets related to the stripping activity are The discount rate applied is based upon a realised where this is the most appropriate When a review for impairment is conducted, pre-tax discount rate that reects current basis for matching the costs against the the recoverable amount is assessed by market assessments of the time value of related economic benets.
reference to the higher of value in use being money and the risks associated with the the net present value of expected future cash relevant cash ows, to the extent that Where, during the production phase, further ows of the relevant cash generating unit or such risks are not reected in the forecast development of the mine requires a phase of fair value less costs to sell.
Where there is no cash ows.
unusually high overburden removal activity binding sale agreement or active market, fair that is similar in nature to pre-production mine value less costs to sell is based on the best If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its development, such stripping costs are information available to reect the amount the recoverable amount, the asset is impaired and considered in a manner consistent with Group could receive for the cash generating an impairment loss is charged to the income stripping costs incurred during the unit in an arms length transaction.
Future cash statement so as to reduce the carrying amount development of the mine before the ows are based on: in the balance sheet to its recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is estimates of the quantities of the reserves reversed if the recoverable amount increases In gold alluvial operations, stripping activity is and mineral resources for which there is as a result of a reversal of the conditions that sometimes undertaken in preparation for the a high degree of confidence of economic originally resulted in the impairment.
Stripping costs are then deferred extraction: reversal is recognised in the income statement as part of cost of inventory and are written off future production levels: and is limited to the carrying amount that to the income statement in the following year would have been determined, net of to match related production.
future commodity prices assuming the depreciation, had no impairment loss been current market prices will revert to the recognised in prior years.
Groups assessment of the long-term average price, generally over a period of up to five years : and future cash costs of production, capital expenditure, environment protection, rehabilitation and closure.
130 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 2.16.
Provisions for close down and Where rehabilitation is conducted Financial assets at fair value through restoration costs systematically over the life of the operation, profit or loss Close down and restoration costs include the rather than at the time of closure, provision This category has two sub-categories: dismantling and demolition of infrastructure is made for the outstanding continuous financial assets held for trading, and those and the removal of residual materials and rehabilitation work at each balance sheet date.
designated at fair value through profit or loss remediation of disturbed areas.
Close down All other costs of continuous rehabilitation are at inception.
A financial asset is classied in and restoration costs are provided for in the charged to the income statement as incurred.
this category if acquired principally for the accounting period when the legal or purpose of selling in the short term or if so constructive obligation arising from the related 2.17.
Financial instruments designated by management.
Derivatives are disturbance occurs, whether this occurs Financial instruments recognised in the also categorised as held for trading unless during the mine development or during the balance sheet include cash and cash they are designated as hedges.
Assets in production phase, based on the net present equivalents, other investments, trade and this category are classied as current if they value of estimated future costs.
Provisions for other receivables, borrowings, derivatives, are either held for trading or are expected close down and restoration costs do not and trade and other payables.
to be realised within 12 months of the balance include any additional obligations which are sheet date.
expected to arise from future disturbance.
The Financial instruments are initially measured costs are estimated on the basis of a closure at fair value when the Group becomes a party Available-for-sale financial assets plan.
The cost estimates are calculated to their contractual arrangements.
Transaction Available-for-sale financial assets are annually during the life of the operation to costs are included in the initial measurement non-derivative financial assets that are either reect known developments and are subject of financial instruments, except financial designated in this category or not classied to formal review at regular intervals.
instruments classied as at fair value through in any of the other categories.
The subsequent measurement included within non-current assets unless The amortisation or unwinding of the discount of financial instruments is dealt with below.
the investment matures or management applied in establishing the net present value of intends to dispose of them within 12 months provisions is charged to the income statement Financial assets of the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale in each accounting period.
The amortisation of Financial assets are classied into the following financial assets are initially measured at the discount is shown as a nancing cost, specified categories: financial assets at fair cost and subsequently carried at fair value.
rather than as an operating cost.
Other value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity Changes in the carrying amount of availablemovements in the provisions for close down investments, available-for-sale financial for-sale financial assets are recognised in other and restoration costs, including those resulting assets and loans and receivables.
The comprehensive income and accumulated from new disturbance, updated cost classication depends on the nature and under the heading of other reserve in equity.
estimates, changes to the lives of operations purpose of the financial assets and is When the investment is disposed of or is and revisions to discount rates are capitalised determined at the time of initial recognition.
determined to be impaired, the cumulative within property, plant and equipment.
These Financial assets are recognised at trade-date, gain or loss previously accumulated in equity costs are then depreciated over the lives of the the date on which the Group commits to is reclassied to the income statement.
assets to which they relate.
The Group does not hold any financial assets which meet the denition of held-to-maturity investments.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 131 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 2. significant accounting Trade receivables Financial liabilities policies continued Trade receivables are measured on initial Financial liabilities, other than derivatives, are recognition at fair value and are subsequently measured on initial recognition at fair value and Loans and receivables measured at amortised cost using the are subsequently measured at amortised cost, Loans and receivables are non-derivative effective interest rate method.
Impairment of using the effective interest rate method.
financial assets xed or determinable trade receivables is established when there is payments that are not quoted on an active objective evidence as a result of a loss event Borrowings market.
Loans and receivables are recognised that the Group will not be able to collect all Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, initially at fair value and subsequently amounts due according to the original terms of net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings measured at amortised cost using the the receivables.
The amount of the impairment are subsequently stated at amortised cost: effective interest method, less any impairment.
is the difference between the assets carrying any difference between the proceeds net of Interest income is recognised by applying the amount and the present value of estimated transaction costs and the redemption value effective interest rate, except for short-term future cash ows, discounted at the original is recognised in the income statement over the receivables when the recognition of interest effective interest rate.
The impairment is period of the borrowings using the effective would be immaterial.
recognised in the income statement.
Effective interest method Other investments The fair value of the liability portion of a The effective interest rate method is a method Listed investments and unlisted equity convertible bond is determined using a market of calculating the amortised cost of a financial investments, other than investments in interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible asset and of allocating interest income over the subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, bond.
This amount is recorded as a liability relevant period.
The effective interest rate is are classied as available-for-sale financial on an amortised cost basis until extinguished the rate that exactly discounts estimated future assets and subsequently measured at fair on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
cash receipts through the expected life of the value.
Fair values for unlisted equity The remainder of the proceeds is allocated to financial asset, or where appropriate, a shorter investments are estimated using methods the conversion option.
This is recognised and period, to the net carrying amount on initial reecting the economic circumstances of included in shareholders equity, net of income recognition.
Equity investments for which tax effects.
fair value cannot be measured reliably are Cash and cash equivalents recognised at cost less impairment.
Changes Borrowings are classied as current liabilities Cash and cash equivalents are dened in the carrying amount of available-for-sale unless the Group has an unconditional right as cash on hand, demand deposits and financial assets are recognised in other to defer settlement of the liability for at least short-term, highly liquid investments readily comprehensive income and accumulated 12 months after the balance sheet date.
convertible to known amounts of cash and under the heading of investments revaluation subject to insignicant risk of changes in value reserve in equity.
When the investment is Derivative financial instruments and are measured at cost which is deemed to disposed of or is determined to be impaired, In accordance with IAS 39 the fair value be fair value as they have a short-term maturity.
the cumulative gain or loss previously of all derivatives is separately recorded on accumulated in the investments revaluation the balance sheet.
Derivatives are initially reserve is reclassied to the income statement recognised at fair value at the date the as gains and losses from investment derivative contracts are entered into and are securities.
subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in the income statement depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
132 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Derivatives embedded in other financial cumulative loss measured as the difference stockpiling the ore.
Quantities of ore in instruments or non-financial host contracts are between the acquisition cost and the current stockpiles ore are assessed through treated as separate derivatives when their risks fair value, less any impairment loss on that surveys and assays.
Ore in stockpiles and characteristics are not closely related to financial asset previously recognised in is classied between current and nontheir host-contract and the host contract is not profit or loss is removed from equity and current inventory based on the expected carried at fair value.
Embedded derivatives are recognised in the income statement.
processing schedule in accordance with recognised at fair value at inception.
Any Impairment losses recognised in the income the Groups mining plan: change to the fair value of the embedded statement on equity instruments are not Work in progress inventory primarily derivatives is recognised in operating profit reversed.
represent gold in processing circuit that within the income statement.
Embedded has not completed the production process.
derivatives which are settled net are disclosed 2.18.
Provisions Work in progress inventory is valued at the in line with the maturity of their host contracts.
Provisions are recognised when the Group average production costs: has a present obligation, whether legal or The fair value of embedded derivatives is constructive, as a result of a past event for Deferred stripping costs are included in determined by using market prices where which it is probable that an outow of inventories where appropriate, as set out available.
In other cases, fair value will be resources embodying economic benets in note 2.15. calculated using quotations from independent will be required to settle the obligation and a financial institutions, or by using appropriate reliable estimate can be made of the amount Inventories are valued at the lower of cost valuation techniques.
and net realisable value, with cost being determined primarily on a weighted average Trade payables Provisions are measured at the present cost basis.
Trade payables are recognised initially at value of managements best estimate of the fair value and subsequently measured at expenditure required to settle the obligation Provisions are recorded to reduce ore in amortised cost using the effective interest at the balance sheet date.
The discount rate stockpiles, work in process and nished method.
used to determine the present value reects goods inventory to net realisable value where current market assessments of the time value the net realisable value is lower than relevant Equity instruments of money and the risks specic to the liability.
inventory cost at the balance sheet date.
Net An equity instrument is any contract that realisable value is determined with reference evidences a residual interest in the assets of 2.19.
Inventories to relevant market prices less estimated costs the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Inventories include the following major to complete production and bring the inventory Equity instruments issued are recorded at the categories: into its saleable form.
Provisions are also proceeds received, net of direct issue cost.
recorded to reduce mine operating supplies Stores and spares represent raw materials to net realisable value, which is generally consumed in the production process as Impairment of financial assets determined with reference to salvage or scrap well as spare parts and other maintenance The Group assesses at each balance sheet value, when it is determined that the supplies supplies: date whether there is objective evidence that are obsolete.
Provisions are reversed to reect a financial asset or a group of financial assets Construction materials represent materials subsequent recoveries in net realisable value is impaired.
In the case of equity securities for use in capital construction and mine where the inventory is still on hand at the classied as available-for-sale, a significant development: balance sheet date.
or prolonged decline in the fair value of the Ore in stockpiles represent material that, security below its cost is considered in at the time of extraction, is expected to be determining whether the securities are processed into a saleable form and sold impaired.
If any such evidence exists for at a profit.
Ore in stockpiles is valued at the available-for-sale financial assets, the average cost per tonne of mining and Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 133 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 2. significant accounting Revenue derived from services is 2.23.
Taxation policies continued recognised in the accounting period Tax expense for the period comprises current in which the services are rendered: and deferred tax.
Leases income statement, except to the extent that Revenue from bulk sample sales made Leases of property, plant and equipment where it relates to items recognised in the statement during the exploration or development the Group has substantially all the risks and of comprehensive income or directly in equity.
phases of operations is recognised as rewards of ownership are classied as finance In this case, the tax is also recognised in the a sale in the income statement: leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the statement of comprehensive income or leases inception at the lower of the fair value Dividends are recognised when the right directly in equity, respectively.
of the leased property and the present value to receive payment is established: and of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease Current tax is the tax expected to be payable Interest is recognised on a time proportion payment is allocated between the liability and on the taxable income for the year calculated basis, taking account of the principal finance charges so as to achieve a constant using rates that have been enacted or outstanding and the effective rate over the rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The substantively enacted by the balance sheet period to maturity, when it is determined corresponding rental obligations, net of finance date.
It includes adjustments for tax expected that such income will accrue to the Group.
charges, are included in borrowings.
The to be payable or recoverable in respect of interest element of the finance cost is charged previous periods.
Borrowing costs to the income statement over the lease period Borrowing costs are generally expensed so as to produce a constant periodic rate of Full provision is made for deferred taxation as incurred except where they relate to the interest on the remaining balance of the liability on all temporary differences existing at the nancing of acquisition, construction or for each period.
balance sheet date with certain limited development of qualifying assets, which are exceptions.
Temporary differences are the mining projects under development that Leases where the lessor retains substantially difference between the carrying value of an necessarily take a substantial period of time all the risks and rewards of ownership are asset or liability and its tax base.
The main to get prepared for their intended use.
Such classied as operating leases.
Payments exceptions to this principle are as follows: borrowing costs are capitalised and added to made under operating leases net of any mine development costs of the mining project Tax payable on the future remittance of the incentives received from the lessor are when the decision is made to proceed with past earnings of subsidiaries, associates charged to the income statement on a the development of the project and until such and jointly controlled entities is provided straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
time when the project is substantially ready for for except where the Company is able to its intended use, which is when commercial control the remittance of profits and it is 2.21.
Revenue recognition production is ready to commence.
probable that there will be no remittance Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the in the foreseeable future: consideration received or receivable to the To the extent that funds are borrowed to extent that it is probable that the economic Deferred tax is not provided on the initial finance a specic mining project, borrowing benets will ow to the Group and the revenue recognition of goodwill or from the initial costs capitalised represent the actual can be reliably measured.
Revenue derived recognition of an asset or liability in a borrowing costs incurred.
To the extent that from goods and services comprises the fair transaction that does not affect accounting funds are borrowed for the general purpose, value of the sale of goods and services to third profit or taxable profit and is not a business borrowing costs capitalised are determined parties, net of value added tax, rebates and combination, such as on the recognition of by applying the interest rate applicable to discounts.
The following criteria must also a provision for close down and restoration appropriate borrowings outstanding during be present: costs and the related asset or on the the period to the average amount of capital inception of finance lease: and The sale of mining products is recognised expenditure incurred to develop the relevant when the significant risks and rewards of mining project during the period.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to ownership of the products are transferred the extent that it is more likely than not that to the buyer: they will be recovered.
134 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair Equity-settled share based payment awards 3.
Areas of judgement in applying value adjustments on acquisitions.
These are measured at fair value at the grant date.
accounting policies and key sources adjustments may relate to assets such as The fair values determined at the grant date of estimation uncertainty mining rights that, in general, are not eligible are recognised as an expense on a straightfor income tax allowances.
In such cases, line basis over the expected vesting period When preparing the consolidated financial the provision for deferred tax is based on with a corresponding adjustment to the share statements in accordance with the accounting the difference between the carrying value based payments reserve within equity.
policies as set out in note 2, management of the asset and its nil income tax base.
necessarily makes judgements and estimates The fair values of equity-settled share based that can have a significant impact on the Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that payment awards are determined at the dates financial statements.
These judgements and are expected to apply in the period when of grant using a Black Scholes model for estimates are based on managements best the liability is settled or the asset is realised those awards vesting based on operating knowledge of the relevant facts and using tax rates that have been enacted, or performance conditions and a Monte Carlo circumstances and previous experience.
Deferred tax is charged model for those awards vesting based on Actual results may differ from these estimates or credited in the income statement, except market related performance conditions.
under different assumptions and conditions.
when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred The estimate of the number of the awards Areas of judgement that have the most tax is also dealt within equity.
likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet significant effect on the amounts recognised date up to the vesting date, at which point the in the financial statements are set out below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset estimate is adjusted to reect the actual when there is a legally enforceable right to awards issued.
The impact of the revision of 3.1.
Ore reserve estimates set-off current tax assets against current tax the original estimates, if any, is recognised in The Group estimates its ore reserves and liabilities, when they relate to income taxes the income statement so that the cumulative mineral resources based on the Australasian levied by the same taxation authority and the expense reects the revised estimate, with a Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Group intends to settle its current tax assets corresponding adjustment to the share based Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of and liabilities on a net basis.
December 2004 the JORC Code 2004, adjusted to conform with the mining activity to 2.24.
Employee benefit Trust be undertaken under the Group mining plan.
The Group has a number of equity-settled Certain Ordinary Shares underlying the The JORC Code 2004 requires the use of share based payment arrangements in place, share based payment awards granted are reasonable investment assumptions when details of which are set out in note 30. held by the Employee benefit Trust the EBT.
reporting reserves, including future production Details of employee benefit trust arrangements estimates, expected future commodity prices are set out in note 30.
The carrying value of and production cash costs.
shares held by the employee benefit trust are recorded as treasury shares, shown as a deduction to shareholders equity.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 135 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 3.
Areas of judgement in applying 3.2.
Exploration and evaluation costs Management necessarily apply their accounting policies and key sources The Groups accounting policy for exploration judgement in allocating assets to CGUs as of estimation uncertainty continued and evaluation expenditure results in well as in making assumptions to be applied exploration and evaluation expenditure being within the value-in-use calculation.
Ore reserve estimates are used in the capitalised for those projects where such calculation of depreciation of mining assets expenditure is considered likely to be The key assumptions which formed the basis using a units of production method, recoverable through future extraction activity of forecasting future cash ows and the value impairment charges and for forecasting the or sale or where the exploration activities in use calculation are: timing of the payment of close down and have not reached a stage which permits a restoration costs.
Also, for the purpose of reasonable assessment of the existence of The successful extraction and processing impairment review and the assessment of life reserves.
This policy requires management to of the reserves in accordance with the of mine for forecasting the timing of the make certain estimates and assumptions as to available ore reserves and mineral payment of close down and restoration costs, future events and circumstances, in particular resources and sale of the commodity the Group may take into account mineral whether the Group will proceed with produced: resources in addition to ore reserves where development based on existence of reserves Commodity prices are internal forecasts there is a high degree of confidence that such or whether an economically viable extraction by management based on the forecasts resources will be extracted.
Such estimates of industry market researchers being and assumptions may change from period to US$1,680 oz for the long-term gold price: Ore reserve estimates may change from period as new information becomes available.
period to period as additional geological If, subsequent to the exploration and A long-term exchange rate of 31.5 data becomes available during the course of evaluation expenditure being capitalised, RUR:US$: operations or economic assumptions used a judgement is made that recovery of the Costs, which are internal forecasts prepared to estimate reserves change.
Such changes expenditure is unlikely or the project is to be by management, adjusted for future ination in estimated reserves may affect the Groups abandoned, the relevant capitalised amount rates in countries of operation: and financial results and financial position in a will be written off to the income statement.
number of ways, including the following: Discount rate to be applied to the future 3.3.
Impairment cash ows, being the pre-tax weighted Asset carrying values due to changes in The Group reviews the carrying values of its average nominal cost of capital, calculated estimated future cash ows: tangible and intangible assets to determine by management, being 10.8% for precious Depreciation charged in the income whether there is any indication that those metals mining projects.
statement where such charges are assets are impaired and tests goodwill for determined by using a units of production impairment annually.
Subsequent changes to CGU allocation or method or where the useful economic lives estimates and assumptions in the value-in-use of assets are determined with reference to The recoverable amount of an asset, or CGU, calculation could impact the carrying value the life of the mine: is measured as the higher of fair value less of the respective assets.
The impairment costs to sell and value in use.
assessments are sensitive to changes Provisions for close down and restoration in commodity prices and discount rates.
costs where changes in estimated reserves Changes to these assumptions would result affect expectations about the timing of the in changes to impairment conclusions, payment of such costs: and which could have a significant effect on the Carrying value of deferred tax assets and consolidated financial statements.
In liabilities where changes in estimated particular, with all other assumptions being reserves affect the carrying value of the constant, a reduction in the estimated relevant assets and liabilities.
long-term gold price would result in impairment of certain mining assets within precious metals segment as set out below.
Potential impairment 5% reduction in the long-term gold price Recoverable amount exceeds carrying amount 10% reduction in the long-term gold price US$50 million 15% reduction in the long-term gold price US$200 million 136 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 3.4 Deferred stripping costs 3.6.
Tax provisions and tax legislation The carrying value of IRC will be adjusted The calculation of deferred stripping costs The Group is subject to income tax in the UK, based on its market share price on that date requires the use of estimates to assess the Russian Federation and Cyprus.
Assessing which will be the basis for valuation of the improved access to the ore to be mined in the outcome of uncertain tax positions Groups share in IRC.
Subsequent to that, IRC future periods.
Changes to the Groups mining requires judgements to be made.
The Group will be accounted for using the equity method plan and pit design may result in changes recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues of accounting taking into consideration the to the timing of realisation of the stripping based on estimates of whether additional Groups share in IRCs results and subject to activity.
As a result, there could be significant taxes will be due, such estimates are based any impairment.
adjustments to the amounts of deferred on the status of ongoing discussions with stripping costs capitalised and their the relevant tax authorities and advice from 4.
Segment information classication between current and nonindependent tax advisers.
Recognition of deferred tax assets The Group has three reportable segments 3.5.
Close down and restoration costs Deferred tax assets, including those arising under IFRS 8 which reect the way the Groups Costs associated with restoration and from tax losses carried forward for the future businesses are managed and reported: rehabilitation of mining sites are typical for tax periods, capital losses and temporary Precious metals segment, comprising gold extractive industries and are normally incurred differences, are recognised only where it is operations at different stages, from eld at the end of the life of the mine.
Provision is considered more likely than not that they exploration through to mine development recognised for each mining site for such costs will be recovered.
The likelihood of such and gold production.
The precious metals discounted to their net present value, as soon recoverability is dependent on the generation segment includes the Groups principal as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
of sufficient future taxable profits which mines Pokrovskiy, Pioneer, Malomir and The costs are estimated on the basis of the relevant deferred tax asset can be utilised Albyn, the Groups alluvial operations and scope of site restoration and rehabilitation to offset.
the Groups operations under gold joint activity in accordance with the mine closure venture arrangements as well as various plan and represent managements best Assumptions about the generation of future gold projects at the exploration and estimate of the expenditure that will be taxable profits depend on managements development stages.
Estimates are reviewed annually estimates of future cash ows.
Judgements as new information becomes available.
are also required about the application of IRC segment, comprising IRC Limited and income tax legislation.
IRC segment includes iron The initial provision for close down and and assumptions are subject to risk and ore projects Kuranakh, K&S, Garinskoye, restoration costs together with other uncertainty and there is a possibility that BolshoySeim, Kostenginskoye and movements in the provision, including those changes in circumstances will alter Garinskoye Flanks projects, engineering resulting from updated cost estimates, expectations, which may impact the amount of and scientific operations represented by changes to the estimated lives of the mines, deferred tax assets recognised on the balance Giproduda, project for design and and revisions to discount rates are capitalised sheet and the amount of other tax losses and development of a titanium sponge within mine development costs or mining temporary differences not yet recognised.
In production plant in China, project for assets of property, plant and equipment.
such circumstances, the carrying amount of production of vanadium pentoxides and Capitalised costs are depreciated over the recognised deferred tax assets may require related products in China as well as various life of the mine they relate to and the provision adjustment, resulting in a corresponding other projects.
is increased each period via unwinding the charge or credit to the income statement.
The Other segment, comprising the discount on the provision.
Changes to the in-house geological exploration expertise estimated future costs are recognised in the 3.8 Measurement of assets held for sale at performed by the Groups exploration balance sheet by adjusting both the asset fair value less costs to sell companies Regis and Dalgeologiya, the and the provision.
IRC has been classied as held for sale and in-house construction and engineering presented separately in the consolidated expertise performed by the Groups The actual costs may be different from those balance sheet as at 31 December 2012 notes specialist construction company Kapstroi, estimated due to changes in relevant laws 28 and 35.
The carrying value of IRCs net the engineering and scientific operations and regulations, changes in prices as well assets has been adjusted to fair value less represented by PHM Engineering and as changes to the restoration techniques.
estimated transaction costs, based on IRCs Irgiredmet and other supporting in-house The actual timing of cash outows may be also share price of HK$1.17 as at 31 December functions as well as procurement of different from those estimated due to changes 2012 which the Directors consider to be the materials such as reagents and in the life of the mine as a result of changes in best measure of fair value.
Subsequent to consumables and equipment for third ore reserves or processing levels.
As a result, 31 December 2012, the IRC share price has parties undertaken by Irgiredmet.
there could be significant adjustments to traded between HK$0.87 and HK$1.45.
the provision for close down and restoration Assuming total investment completion occurs, costs established which would affect future the Groups interest in the share capital of IRC financial results.
Limited would be diluted from 63.13% held at 31 December 2012 note 37 to 40.43% and IRC would become an associate to the Group.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 137 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 4.
Segment information continued Precious metals IRC Other Consolidated 2012 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue Gold 1,173,985 1,173,985 Silver 7,770 7,770 Iron ore concentrate and ilmenite 128,466 128,466 Other external revenue 1,174 11,221 52,558 64,953 Inter-segment revenue 1,393 431,606 432,999 Intra-group eliminations 1,393 431,606 432,999 Total Group revenue from external customers 1,182,929 139,687 52,558 1,375,174 Net operating expenses 1,003,992 356,630 51,696 1,412,318 including Depreciation and amortisation 213,584 15,064 1,792 230,440 Impairment 139,206 218,844 358,050 Share of results of associates 81 81 Share of results of joint ventures 2,338 2,338 Segment result 178,856 219,281 862 39,563 Before exceptional items 306,578 437 458 305,683 a Exceptional items 127,722 218,844 1,320 345,246 b Central administration 86,688 Foreign exchange gains 8,033 Operating profit 118,218 Investment income 2,121 Interest expense 74,991 Other finance losses 13,581 Taxation 39,279 profit for the period 243,948 Segment Assets 2,328,057 717,955 243,205 3,289,217 Segment Liabilities 116,926 179,639 75,215 371,780 c Goodwill 21,675 Deferred tax net 75,913 Unallocated cash 13,574 Loans given 1,861 Borrowings 1,222,521 Net Assets 1,656,113 Other segment information Additions to non-current assets: Exploration and evaluation expenditure capitalised within intangible assets 41,606 1,369 42,975 Acquisition of mining rights within intangible assets 19,578 19,578 Other additions to intangible assets 3,919 3,919 Capital expenditure 536,282 60,379 23,168 619,829 Other items capitalised 13,503 12,689 26,192 Average number of employees 7,630 2,229 5,035 14,894 a See note 6. b Including US$26 million central administration expenses of IRC.
c In making the assessment for impairment, goodwill is allocated to the group of cash generating units likely to benefit from acquisition-related synergies note 13.
138 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Precious metals IRC Other Consolidated 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue Gold 1,093,507 1,093,507 Silver 7,817 7,817 Iron ore concentrate 110,388 110,388 Other external sales 11,820 38,958 50,778 Inter-segment revenue 2,869 328,414 331,283 Intra-group eliminations 2,869 328,414 331,283 Total Group revenue from external customers 1,101,324 122,208 38,958 1,262,490 Net operating expenses 602,089 101,415 43,582 747,086 Including Depreciation and amortisation 118,564 11,287 2,351 132,202 Impairment 40,103 1,975 42,078 Share of results of joint ventures 846 514 1,360 Segment result 498,389 20,279 4,624 514,044 Before exceptional items 486,353 18,840 4,624 500,569 d d Exceptional items 12,036 1,439 13,475 e Central administration 89,743 Unallocated impairment of non-trading loans 14,241 Foreign exchange losses 9,833 Operating profit 400,227 Investment income 3,119 Interest expense 39,641 Other finance losses 2,381 Taxation 120,835 profit for the period 240,489 Segment Assets 2,077,779 846,981 216,494 3,141,254 Segment Liabilities 103,391 22,832 56,567 182,790 f Goodwill 21,675 Deferred tax net 173,469 Unallocated cash 107,836 Loans given 263 Borrowings 1,006,838 Net Assets 1,907,931 Other segment information Additions to non-current assets: Exploration and evaluation expenditure capitalised within intangible assets 55,497 12,406 226 68,129 Other additions to intangible assets 2,569 2,569 Capital expenditure 516,724 81,202 22,263 620,189 Other items capitalised 36,832 426 37,258 Average number of employees 6,670 2,226 4,489 13,385 d See note 6. e Including US$23 million central administration expenses of IRC.
f In making the assessment for impairment, goodwill is allocated to the group of cash generating units likely to benefit from acquisition-related synergies note 13.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 139 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 4.
Segment information continued Entity wide disclosures a Revenue by geographical location 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Russia and CIS 1,246,433 1,151,929 China 128,466 110,388 Other 275 173 1,375,174 1,262,490 a Based on the location to which the product is shipped or in which the services are provided.
b Non-current assets by location of asset 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Russian 1,893,284 2,480,102 China 7,765 Other 19,450 11,220 1,912,734 2,499,087 b Excluding financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
Information about major customers During the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011, the Group generated revenues from the sales of gold to a number of financial institutions, namely, to Russian banks for Russian domestic sales of gold and to foreign banks for sales of gold outside of Russia.
Included in gold sales revenue for the year ended 31 December 2012 are revenues of US$1,119 million which arose from sales of gold to two banks that individually accounted for more than 10% of the Groups revenue, namely US$568 million to Sberbank of Russia, US$551 million to VTB 2011: US$990 million which arose from sales of gold to three banks that individually accounted for more than 10% of the Groups revenue, namely US$521 million to Sberbank of Russia, US$300 million to VTB and US$169 million to the Asian-Pacic Bank.
The proportion of Group revenue of each bank may vary from year to year depending on commercial terms agreed with each bank.
Management consider there is no major customer concentration risk due to high liquidity inherent to gold as a commodity.
Revenue 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Sales of goods 1,342,500 1,236,446 Rendering of services 30,106 23,469 Rental income 2,568 2,575 1,375,174 1,262,490 Investment income 2,121 3,119 1,377,295 1,265,609 140 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 6.
Operating expenses and income 2012 2011 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Net operating expenses a excluding items shown separately 1,027,829 1,027,829 718,483 718,483 a Impairment charges  42,078 Impairment of ore stockpiles 29,692 29,692 Impairment of non-trading loans 14,241 14,241 a Central administration expenses 86,688 86,688 92,941 3,198 89,743 Foreign exchange gains losses 8,033 8,033 9,833 9,833 b Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 26,937 26,937 Write-down to adjust the carrying value of c IRCs net assets to fair value less costs to sell 197,854 197,854 Gain on disposal of Groups interest in joint ventures and available-for-sale investments 498 498 12,036 12,036 Net gain on acquisition of Jiatai Titanium 1,439 1,439 1,145,727 345,246 1,490,973 863,335 2,432 860,903 a As set out below.
Net operating expenses 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Depreciation 230,440 132,202 Staff costs 217,987 170,499 Materials 201,069 132,820 Fuel 114,214 73,343 External services 122,746 97,382 Royalties 72,044 67,599 Electricity 45,800 34,727 Shipping costs 48,147 33,704 Smelting and transportation costs 5,838 5,944 Movement in ore stockpiles, deferred stripping, work in progress and bullion in process attributable to gold production 111,768 91,713 Taxes other than income 18,672 12,375 Insurance 6,153 6,447 Professional fees 2,229 12,583 Ofce costs 3,338 2,648 Operating lease rentals 2,295 1,670 Business travel expenses 4,259 3,259 Provision for impairment of trade and other receivables 2,391 1,862 Bank charges 2,794 2,526 Goods for resale 23,723 19,665 Other operating expenses 28,716 13,637 Other income 13,258 14,696 1,027,829 718,483 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 141 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 6.
Operating expenses and income continued Exceptional impairment charges Further development of gravel production and gold exploration operations at Yamal deposits is pending as the Directors continue to evaluate the available options for unlocking the value of these assets.
Accordingly, an impairment provision of US$99.5 million was recognised against the carrying values of the associated assets included in exploration and evaluation costs capitalised within intangible assets US$48.1 million, property, plant and equipment US$42.8 million and nished goods US$8.6 million.
The Directors consider this impairment to be exceptional in nature as it relates to a project in production.
Following the decision to suspend development of the thermal coal deposits associated with the K&S project of IRC indefinitely, an impairment provision of US$21.0 million was recognised against the carrying value of the associated assets included in mine development costs within property, plant and equipment.
The Directors consider this impairment to be exceptional in nature as it relates to a project in development.
All other impairment charges Following the decision to suspend exploration at Verkhnetisskaya and Troeusovskaya license areas located in Krasnoyarsk region, an impairment provision of US$9.9 million was recognised against the carrying values of the associated exploration and evaluation costs previously capitalised within intangible assets.
Central administration expenses 2012 2011 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Staff costs 54,385 54,385 57,542 57,542 a Professional fees 6,529 6,529 7,683 3,198 4,485 Insurance 1,361 1,361 1,924 1,924 Operating lease rentals 3,868 3,868 3,698 3,698 Business travel expenses 4,269 4,269 5,805 5,805 Ofce costs 2,012 2,012 2,081 2,081 Other 14,264 14,264 14,208 14,208 86,688 86,688 92,941 3,198 89,743 a Refund of costs incurred in relation to the listing of IRC Limited on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
142 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 7.
Auditors remuneration The Group, including its overseas subsidiaries, obtained the following services from the Companys auditor and their associates: 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Audit fees and related fees Fees payable to the Company's auditor for the annual audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 493 356 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services to the Group: For the audit of the Company's subsidiaries as part of the audit of the consolidated financial statements 383 311 a For the audit of subsidiary statutory accounts pursuant to legislation 616580 1,492 1,247 Non-audit fees b Other services pursuant to legislation interim review 351331 c Fees for reporting accountants services 570 Tax services 39 146 Other services 65 68 1,025 545 a Including the statutory audit of subsidiaries in the UK and Cyprus as well as US$514 thousand 2011: US$478 thousand payable for the audit of the consolidated financial statements of IRC Limited.
b Including US$133 thousand 2011: US$125 thousand payable for the interim review of the consolidated financial statements of IRC Limited.
c Fees payable in relation to the circular issued on 18 February 2013 in connection with the proposed issue of shares by IRC Limited note 35.
Staff costs 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Wages and salaries 209,169 176,007 Social security costs 51,426 40,387 Pension costs 656 637 Share based compensation 11,121 11,010 272,372 228,041 Average number of employees 14,894 13,385 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 143 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 9.
Financial income and expenses 2012 2011 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Investment income Interest income 2,121 2,121 3,119 3,119 2,121 2,121 3,119 3,119 Interest expense Interest on bank and other loans 58,766 58,766 24,626 24,626 Interest on convertible bonds 28,863 28,863 27,753 27,753 87,629 87,629 52,379 52,379 Interest capitalised 13,392 13,392 13,992 13,992 Unwinding of discount on environmental obligation 754 754 1,254 1,254 74,991 74,991 39,641 39,641 Other finance losses Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments 13,581 13,581 2,381 2,381 13,581 13,581 2,381 2,381 144 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 10.
Taxation 2012 2011 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional a b items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Current tax UK current tax 223 223 Russian current tax 61,418 61,418 73,888 73,888 61,641 61,641 73,888 73,888 Deferred tax Reversal origination of timing differences 13,517 8,845 22,362 46,947 46,947 Total tax charge 48,124 8,845 39,279 120,835 120,835 a Being reversal of associated deferred tax liabilities in connection with impairment charges note 6. b Exceptional items were tax neutral.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Loss profit before tax 204,669 361,324 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 24.5% 2011: 26.5% 50,144 95,751 Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 7,415 34,186 Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures and associates 443 224 Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible for tax purposes 61,106 18,714 Tax effect of tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised 60,090 38,452 Income not subject to tax 2,548 5,130 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 1,199 4,184 Foreign exchange movements in respect of deductible temporary differences 15,754 17,422 Other adjustments 5,300 6,228 Tax expense for the period 39,279 120,835 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 145 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 11.
Earnings per share 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Loss profit for the period attributable to equity holders of Petropavlovsk PLC 159,658 230,885 Before exceptional items 98,771 228,453 Exceptional items 258,429 2,432 a Interest expense on convertible bonds, net of tax 20,398 Loss profit used to determine diluted earnings per share 159,658 251,283 Before exceptional items 98,771 248,851 Exceptional items 258,429 2,432 No of shares No of shares Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 186,518,041 186,478,361 Adjustments for dilutive potential Ordinary Shares: a assumed conversion of convertible bonds 18,478,083 b share options in issue 9,618 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share 186,518,041 204,966,062 US$ US$ Basic loss earnings per share 0.85 1.24 Before exceptional items 0.54 1.23 Exceptional items 1.39 0.01 Diluted loss earnings per share 0.85 1.23 Before exceptional items 0.54 1.22 Exceptional items 1.39 0.01 a Convertible bonds note 20 which could potentially dilute basic earnings per ordinary share in the future were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because they were anti-dilutive.
b Share options which could potentially dilute basic earnings per ordinary share until these lapsed unexercised on 19 July 2012 note 30 were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because they were anti-dilutive.
As at 31 December 2012 and 2011, the Group had a potentially dilutive option issued to the International Finance Corporation IFC to subscribe for 1,067,273 Ordinary Shares note 23 which was anti-dilutive 2011: anti-dilutive and therefore was not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
146 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 12.
Dividends a 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 0.05 per share paid on 5 November 2012 14,632 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 0.07 per share paid on 23 July 2012 20,390 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 0.05 per share paid on 11 November 2011 15,164 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 0.07 per share paid on 28 July 2011 21,692 35,022 36,856 a Information on dividends proposed subsequent to 31 December 2012 is set out in note 35.
Goodwill 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Cost At 1 January 22,161 22,161 At 31 December 22,161 22,161 Accumulated impairment At 1 January 486 486 At 31 December 486 486 Carrying amount at 31 December 21,675 21,675 Goodwill primarily relates to the Groups investment in Irgiredmet and BMRP.
Goodwill recognised on acquisition of Irgiredmet and BMRP in the amounts of US$16 million and US$5 million, correspondingly, has been allocated to the group of cash generating units likely to benefit from acquisition-related synergies, which are those within the precious metals segment.
The recoverable amount of cash generating units is determined based on value-in-use calculations as set out in note 3.3.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 147 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 14.
Intangible assets Included in intangible assets are capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure and mineral rights acquired as set out below.
VerkhneYamal Flanks of Flanks of b d Visokoe Aliinskoye Tokur deposits Pokrovskiy Albyn Other Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2011 36,826 67,148 62,955 77,834 18,808 1,711 81,580 346,862 Additions 5,379 3,957 381 7,056 16,334 6,339 31,252 70,698 note 6 Impairment 15,195 2,579 18,945 36,719 Transfer to mine development 18,260 613 18,873 c Transfer to mining assets 28,587 1,032 29,619 Reallocation and other transfers 1,618 220 226 776 2,388 At 31 December 2011 42,205 72,723 63,556 51,435 3,750 8,050 93,018 334,737 b Following approval of a new plan to develop gravel operations at the Novogodnee Monto area of the Yamal deposits by the Board Committee in June 2011 and commencement of development, associated amounts capitalised have been transferred to mine development costs within property, plant and equipment.
c Following completion of exploration and commencement of the mining activity at Alkagan-Adamovskaya, Sergeevskaya and Zheltunakskaya licence areas, the associated amounts capitalised have been transferred to mining assets within property, plant and equipment.
d Represent amounts capitalised in respect of a number of projects in the Amur and other regions.
148 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 15.
b Being costs primarily associated with continuous development of Malomir, Albyn and Pioneer projects.
c Following commencement of commercial production of gravel at the Novogodnee Monto area of the Yamal deposits associated mine development costs were transferred to the mining assets.
d Property, plant and equipment with a net book value of US$173.0 million 31 December 2011: US$211.7 million have been pledged to secure borrowings of the Group.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 149 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 16.
Inventories 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Current Construction materials 20,931 30,114 Stores and spares 124,515 128,654 c Ore in stockpiles 101,669 78,084 Work in progress 39,712 21,073 Deferred stripping costs 51,555 47,114 Bullion in process 2,534 9,917 Finished goods 8,111 Other 5,076 7,593 345,992 330,660 Non-current a, c Ore in stockpiles 66,204 16,828 b Deferred stripping costs 26,359 66,204 43,187 a Ore in stockpiles that is not planned to be processed within twelve months after the reporting period.
b Production stripping related to the ore extraction which is to be undertaken within more than twelve months after the reporting period.
c As at 31 December 2012, ore in stockpiles include balances in the aggregate of US$106.2 million carried at net realisable value 2011: US$ nil.
Trade and other receivables 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Current VAT recoverable 101,441 109,250 Advances to suppliers 20,178 63,856 a Trade receivables 11,376 11,442 b Consideration receivable for disposal of subsidiaries 24,284 c Advances paid on resale and commission contracts 1,248 d Other debtors 31,982 23,181 189,261 208,977 a Net of provision for impairment of US$0.8 million 2011: US$1.1 million.
Trade receivables are due for settlement between one and six months.
Included in trade receivables are individual balances totalling US$ nil 2011: US$0.01 million which are past due but not impaired as the amounts are still considered recoverable.
b Note 29. c Amounts included in advances paid on resale and commission contracts relate to services performed by the Groups subsidiary, Irgiredmet, in its activity to procure materials such as reagents, consumables and equipment for third parties.
d Net of provision for impairment of US$6.4 million 2011: US$5.6 million.
There is no significant concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before granting credit.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties.
The Groups exposure and credit ratings of its counterparties are monitored by the Board of Directors.
The maximum credit risk of such financial assets is represented by the carrying value of the asset.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
150 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 18.
Trade and other payables 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Trade payables 55,429 37,684 Advances from customers 10,002 7,724 a Advances received on resale and commission contracts 3,740 6,370 Accruals and other payables 76,627 83,126 145,798 134,904 a Amounts included in advances paid on resale and commission contracts at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 relate to services performed by the Groups subsidiary, Irgiredmet, in its activity to procure materials such as reagents, consumables and equipment for third parties.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
Borrowings 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Borrowings at amortised cost a Convertible bonds 352,475 338,812 b Bank loans 867,265 659,630 c ICBC facility 6,343 b Other loans 2,781 2,053 1,222,521 1,006,838 Amount due for settlement within 12 months 83,789 216,430 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 1,138,732 790,408 1,222,521 1,006,838 a In February 2010, the Group issued US$380 million of convertible bonds due on 18 February 2015 the Bonds.
The Bonds were issued at par by the Companys wholly owned subsidiary Petropavlovsk 2010 Limited and are guaranteed by the Company.
The Bonds carry a coupon of 4.00% payable semi-annually in arrears and are convertible into redeemable preference shares of Petropavlovsk 2010 Limited which are guaranteed by and will be exchangeable immediately upon issuance for Ordinary Shares in the Company.
The conversion price has been set at 12.9345 per share, subject to adjustment for certain events and adjusted to 12.66 with effect from 29 June 2011 for each US$100,000 principal amount of a Bond, and the conversion exchange rate has been xed at US$1.6244 per 1.
The Bonds were admitted to listing on the Ofcial List of the UK Listing Authority and admitted to trading on the Professional Securities Market of the London Stock Exchange on 19 February 2010.
The net proceeds received from the issue of the convertible bonds were split between the liability component and the equity component of US$59 million representing the fair value of the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group.
The liability component of the Bonds is measured at amortised cost.
The interest charged was calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 8.65% to the liability component.
As at 31 December 2012, the fair value of the Bonds, calculated by applying the effective interest rate of 7.5% to the liability component of the Bonds, amounted to US$360.3 million 2011: the fair value of the Bonds, calculated by applying the effective interest rate of 10.5% to the liability component of the Bonds, amounted to US$322.7 million.
b As at 31 December 2012, US$128.8 million 2011: US$168.3 million of bank loans are secured against certain items of property, plant and equipment of the Group note 15.
The weighted average interest rate paid during the year ended 31 December 2012 was 6.8% 2011: 6%.
The carrying value of the bank loans approximated their fair value at each period end.
As at 31 December 2012, bank loans with an aggregate carrying value of US$608.9 million 2011: US$296.2 million contain certain financial covenants.
As at 31 December 2012, the amounts undrawn under the bank loans were US$153.2 million 2011: US$129.6 million.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 151 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 21.
Deferred taxation 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 173,469 126,768 Deferred tax credited charged to income statement 22,362 46,947 Disposal of subsidiaries 16,039 Deferred tax charged to equity 153 Transfer to liabilities associated with assets classied as held for sale 59,594 Exchange differences 439 399 At 31 December 75,913 173,469 Deferred tax assets 1,373 2,562 Deferred tax liabilities 77,286 176,031 Net deferred tax liability 75,913 173,469 Transfer to liabilities Charged associated credited with assets At 1 January to the income Disposal of classied as Exchange At 31 December a 2012 statement subsidiaries held for sale differences 2012 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Property, plant and equipment 132,500 13,122 72 59,396 95 60,149 Inventory 29,747 396 30 534 27 30,620 Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure 3,165 4,338 4,007 2,834 Fair value adjustments 21,775 1,232 12,394 316 8,465 Tax losses 2,523 1,889 4,412 Other temporary differences 4,865 10,853 320 732 55 16,075 173,469 22,362 16,039 59,594 439 75,913 a Note 28.
Charged credited Charged At 1 January to the income credited Exchange At 31 December 2011 statement directly to equity differences 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Property, plant and equipment 86,944 45,646 90 132,500 Inventory 14,164 15,559 24 29,747 Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure 2,363 5,528 3,165 Derivative financial instruments 321 321 Fair value adjustments 23,233 1,185 273 21,775 Tax losses 4,137 1,614 2,523 Other temporary differences 3,880 8,838 153 60 4,865 126,768 46,947 153 399 173,469 As at 31 December 2012, the Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets in respect of the accumulated tax losses comprising US$597.2 million, including US$248.3 million accumulated tax losses of IRC note 28, that can be carried forward against future taxable income 2011: US$384.8 million.
Tax losses of US$248.8 million can be carried forward indefinitely and tax losses of US$348.4 million expire primarily between 2018 and 2022.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of US$47.7 million 2011: US$35.4 million in respect of temporary differences arising on certain capitalised development costs, including US$37.3 million related to IRC note 28.
The Group has not recorded a deferred tax liability in respect of withholding tax and other taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings associated with investments in its subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint ventures as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of those temporary differences and does not intend to reverse them in the foreseeable future.
As at 31 December 2012, unremitted earnings comprised in aggregate US$1,192.1 million 2011: US$827.3 million.
152 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 22.
Provision for close down and restoration costs 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 34,958 11,085 Recognised during the year 14,278 10,042 Unwinding of discount 754 1,254 Change in estimates 1,625 13,224 note 28 Transfer to liabilities associated with assets classied as held for sale 14,626 Foreign exchange differences 239 647 At 31 December 33,978 34,958 The Group recognised provisions in relation to close down and restoration costs for the following mining operations: 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Pokrovskiy 5,238 4,990 Pioneer 5,394 4,979 Malomir 11,833 10,843 Albyn 11,129 10,053 Yamal 384 a Kuranakh 4,093 a Transferred to liabilities associated with assets classied as held for sale note 28.
Provision recognised represents the present value of estimated expenditure that will be incurred arrived at using the long-term risk-free pre-tax cost of borrowing.
The expenditure arises at different times over the life of mine.
The expected timing of significant cash outows is between years 2017 and 2022 and beyond, varying from mine site to mine site.
Share capital 2012 2011 No of shares US$000 No of shares US$000 Allotted, called up and fully paid At 1 January 187,860,093 2,891 187,860,093 2,891 Issued during the period At 31 December 187,860,093 2,891 187,860,093 2,891 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to xed income.
The Company has an option issued to the IFC on 22 April 2009 on acquisition of Aricom plc to subscribe for 1,067,273 Ordinary Shares at an exercise price of 11.84 per share, subject to adjustments.
The option expires on 25 May 2015.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 153 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 24.
Own shares 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 10,444 10,675 Vesting of awards within Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP 248 231 At 31 December 10,196 10,444 Own shares represent 1,319,733 Ordinary Shares held by the EBT 2011: 1,351,806 to provide benets to employees under the Long-Term Incentive Plan note 30.
Notes to the cash ow statement Reconciliation of profit before tax to operating cash ow 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Loss profit before tax 204,669 361,324 Adjustments for: Share of results of joint ventures 2,338 1,360 Share of results of associate 81 Investment income 2,121 3,119 Interest expense 74,991 39,641 a Other finance losses 2,381 Share based payments 11,121 11,010 Depreciation 230,440 132,202 Impairment charges 130,504 42,078 Impairment of ore stockpiles 29,692 Impairment of non-trading loans 14,241 Provision for impairment of trade and other receivables 2,391 1,862 Write-down to adjust the carrying value of IRCs net assets to fair value less costs to sell 197,854 Loss on disposals of property, plant and equipment 3,665 2,118 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 26,937 Gain on disposal of the Groups interests in joint ventures and available-for-sale investments 498 12,036 Net gain on acquisition of Jiatai Titanium 1,439 Exchange gains losses in respect of investment activity 85 940 Exchange gains losses in respect of cash and cash equivalents 4,626 58 Other non-cash items 1,639 3,450 Changes in working capital: Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 12,084 104,093 Increase in inventories 119,901 158,137 Increase in trade and other payables 18,399 31,226 Net cash generated from operations 410,236 356,287 a Net of cash settlements payable on maturity of derivative financial instruments.
Non-cash transactions Other than acquisition of assets for consideration that was satisfied through the issuance of ordinary shares by IRC Limited note 27, there have been no significant non-cash transactions during the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011.
154 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 26.
Related parties Related parties the Group entered into transactions with during the reporting period OJSC Asian-Pacic Bank Asian-Pacic Bank is considered to be a related party as Mr Peter Hambro and Dr Pavel Maslovskiy have interests and, collectively, exercise significant inuence over Asian-Pacic Bank.
The Petropavlovsk Foundation for Social Investment the Petropavlovsk Foundation is considered to be a related party due to the participation of the key management of the Group in the governing board of the Petropavlovsk Foundation and presence in its board of guardians.
OJSC Krasnoyarskaya GGK Krasnoyarskaya GGK is considered to be a related party due to this entitys minority interest and significant inuence in the Groups subsidiary Verhnetisskaya GRK.
Odolgo Joint Venture was a joint venture of the Group and hence was considered to be a related party until it was disposed in May 2011.
LLC Uralmining was an associate of the Group and hence is a related party until it was acquired and became a subsidiary to the Group in April 2012.
CJSC ZRK Omchak and its wholly owned subsidiary LLC Kaurchak Omchak became an associate to the Group on 4 December 2012 note 29 and hence are related parties since then.
Transactions with related parties the Group entered into during the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 are set out below.
Trading transactions Related party transactions the Group entered into that relate to the day-to-day operation of the business are set out below.
Sales to related parties Purchases from related parties 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Asian-Pacic Bank Sales of gold and silver 1,484 168,578 Other 383 281 1,124 1,064 1,867 168,859 1,124 1,064 Trading transactions with other related parties Rent, insurance and other transactions with other entities in which Mr Peter Hambro and or Dr Pavel Maslovskiy have a controlling interest or exercise a significant inuence 121 229 9,993 6,093 Entities controlled by key management 92 113 Joint ventures and associates 4 562 125 791 10,085 6,206 During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Group made US$2.6 million charitable donations to the Petropavlovsk Foundation 2011: US$3.4 million.
The outstanding balances with related parties at 31 December 2012 and 2011 are set out below.
Amounts owed by related parties at Amounts owed to related parties at 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Other entities in which Mr Peter Hambro and or Dr Pavel Maslovskiy have a controlling interest or exercise a significant inuence 1,386 60 584 1,713 Joint ventures and associates 485 824 Asian-Pacic Bank 2 7 1,873 67 1,408 1,713 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 155 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 26.
Related parties continued Banking arrangements The Group has current and deposit bank accounts with Asian-Pacic Bank.
The bank balances at 31 December 2012 and 2011 are set out below.
a 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Asian-Pacic Bank 14,054 19,972 a Including US$8.3 million presented within assets classied as held for sale as at 31 December 2012 note 28. Financing transactions During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Group received US$0.8 million under interest-free unsecured loan arrangements from Krasnoyarskaya GGK.
As at 31 December 2012, the loan principal outstanding amounted to US$2.8 million 31 December 2011: US$2.0 million.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had an interest-free unsecured loan issued to LLC Kaurchak.
Loan principal outstanding amounted to US$1.0 million.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group invested US$0.7 million in the associate through equity.
Key management compensation Key management personnel, comprising a group of 22 2011: 23 individuals, including Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company and members of senior management, are those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
Acquisition of assets Acquisition of Molybdenum exploration project On 11 July 2012, the Group, through its subsidiary IRC Limited, acquired a 50% plus one share equity interest in Caedmon Limited Caedmon, the holder of exploration and mining licences of a Molybdenum exploration project in the Amur Region.
The total consideration in the equivalent of US$6.5 million was satisfied through the issuance and allotment of 57,352,941 ordinary shares of IRC Limited with a nominal value of HK$0.01 each.
In addition, IRC Limited also acquired the related shareholder indebtedness and an option to acquire the remaining 50% minus one share equity interest in Caedmon the Option.
The Group may exercise the Option any time over a two-year period commencing on the date of completion of the transaction.
US$180,000 and US$320,000 are payable for the grant of Option and the shareholder indebtedness, respectively within twelve months of the completion of the transaction.
The transaction was accounted for as an asset acquisition and the cost of acquisition was allocated to the mining rights of the molybdenum exploration project.
Acquisition of Bolshoi Seym deposit On 24 July 2012, the Group, through IRC Limited and its subsidiaries, acquired the remaining 51% interest in its associate LLC Uralmining Uralmining, the holder of the exploration and mining licences of Bolshoi Seym ilmenite deposit.
The total consideration in the equivalent of US$6.5 million was satisfied through the issuance and allotment of 74,681,360 ordinary shares of IRC Limited, with a nominal value of HK$0.01 each, at a market value of HK$0.68 per share on 24 July 2012.
Uralmining changed from an associate to a subsidiary of the Group thereof.
The transaction was accounted for as an asset acquisition and the cost of acquisition was allocated to the mining rights of the Bolshoi Seym deposit.
156 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 28.
Assets classied as held for sale Following negotiations with several interested parties the Directors of the Company resolved to approve the potential investment in IRC Limited by the investors see note 35 and to accept the resulting dilution of the Groups holding in IRC to a non-controlling interest.
This dilution is expected to be completed within 12 months after the reporting date and accordingly IRC has been classied as held for sale and presented separately in the balance sheet as at 31 December 2012.
The main categories of assets and liabilities classied as held for sale are set out below.
Carrying Fair value less a amount costs to sell US$ 000 US$000 Intangible assets 64,286 43,070 b Property, plant and equipment 593,249 378,243 Prepayments for property, plant and equipment 162,012 162,012 Interests in joint ventures 4,887 4,887 Other non-current assets 27,199 27,199 Inventories 43,376 43,376 Trade and other receivables 41,132 41,132 Cash and cash equivalents 18,036 18,036 Total assets classied as held for sale 954,177 717,955 Trade and other payables 18,959 18,959 Current income tax payable 353 353 c, d Borrowings 124,475 124,475 Deferred tax liabilities 59,594 21,226 Provision for close down and restoration costs 14,626 14,626 Total liabilities associated with assets classied as held for sale 218,007 179,639 Net assets of IRC 736,170 538,316 Write-down to adjust the carrying value of IRCs net assets to fair value less costs to sell 197,854 a Based on market share price of HK$1.17 per IRC share as at 31 December 2012 less estimated transaction costs.
A decrease increase of 10% in IRCs share price would result in US$52.7 million additional write-down reversal of write-down adjustment.
b At 31 December 2012, IRC had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and mine development costs amounting to US$247 million.
c On 6 December 2010, Kimkano-Sutarsky Mining and beneficiation Plant LLC K&S, a subsidiary of IRC, entered into the HK$3.11 billion equivalent to US$400 million Engineering Procurement and Construction Contract with China National Electric Engineering Corporation for the construction of the Groups mining operations at K&S.
On 13 December 2010, K&S entered into a project finance facility agreement with the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited ICBC the ICBC Facility Agreement pursuant to which ICBC will lend US$340 million to K&S to be used to fund the construction of the Groups mining operations at K&S in time for the start of major construction works in early 2011.
Interest under the facility will be charged at 2.80% above London Interbank Offered rate LIBOR per annum.
The facility is guaranteed by the Company and is repayable semi-annually starting from 2014 and is fully repayable by 2022.
The loan is carried at amortised cost with effective interest rate at 5.63% per annum.
As at 31 December 2012 and 2011, US$6 million was deposited with ICBC under a security deposit agreement related to the ICBC Facility Agreement and is presented within non-current assets.
ICBC Facility Agreement contains certain financial covenants.
As at 31 December 2012, the amounts undrawn under the ICBC Facility Agreement were US$220.6 million 2011: US$333 million.
d During the year ended 31 December 2012, IRC entered into the following nancing transactions with Asian-Pacic Bank: IRC repaid US$15 million unsecured 10% loan received from Asian-Pacic Bank in 2011: IRC entered into a US$10 million unsecured 10.3% facility, which was fully utilised and subsequently repaid during the year: IRC entered into a US$15 million unsecured 11% facility, the loan was fully drawn down during the year and is repayable in August 2013: IRC entered into a US$10 million unsecured 11.2% facility, repayable in December 2013.
As at 31 December 2012, the amounts undrawn under the facilities with Asian-Pacic Bank were US$10 million 31 December 2011: US$ nil.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 157 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 29.
Disposal of subsidiaries On 4 December 2012, the Group disposed of its 65% investment in CJSC ZRK Omchak and its wholly owned subsidiary LLC Kaurchak Omchak for the total cash consideration of US$21.7 million.
The Group retained 25% interest in Omchak and, accordingly, Omchak has become an associate of the Group since that date.
The net assets of Omchak as at the date of disposal are set out below.
4 December 2012 US$000 Intangible assets 81,442 Property, plant and equipment 621 Inventories 28 Trade and other receivables 1,744 Cash and cash equivalents 9 Trade and other payables 1,617 Deferred tax liability 14,798 Net assets disposed 67,429 Non-controlling interests 6,750 Groups share of net assets disposed 60,679 a Total consideration 21,650 Fair value of 25% equity interest in Omchak retained 8,327 Loss on disposal 30,702 Net cash outow arising on disposal: Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of 9 9 a Total consideration is receivable in cash in four equal tranches as follows: US$5,412,500 on or before 31 January 2013: US$5,412,500 on or before 30 June 2013: US$5,412,500 on or before 30 September 2013: US$5,412,500 on or before 31 December 2013.
On 7 February 2012, the Group disposed of its interest in the wholly-owned subsidiary CJSC SeverChrome for total cash consideration of US$7.8 million and recognised a gain on disposal of US$1.3 million.
Net cash inow arising on disposal amounted to US$5.6 million.
On 5 December 2012, the Group disposed of its interest in the wholly-owned subsidiary LLC Uduma for the total cash consideration in the equivalent of US$4.8 million, out of which US$2.6 million was outstanding as at 31 December 2012, and recognised a gain on disposal of US$ 2.4 million.
Net cash inow arising on disposal amounted to US$2.1 million.
158 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 30.
Share based payments The Group operates various equity-settled share awards schemes.
The details of share awards outstanding are set out below.
Petropavlovsk PLC Share option scheme Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP awards Granted on 25 June 2009 Granted on 12 May 2011 Weighted Weighted Weighted average exercise average exercise average exercise Number of price Number of price Number of price Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Outstanding at 1 January 2012 50,000 6.72 462,961 1,365,108 Granted during the year Forfeited during the year 43,394 98,620 Exercised and vested during the year 32,073 Expired during the year 50,000 6.72 a Outstanding at 31 December 2012 387,494 1,266,488 a It is the intention of the Remuneration Committee that 42.5% of the awards will vest in April 2013 following the announcement of the Companys 2012 full year results.
Petropavlovsk PLC Long-Term Incentive Plan the Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP The Group established Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP which was approved by the shareholders of the Company on 25 June 2009 and includes the following awards: Share Option Award, being a right to acquire a specified number of Ordinary Shares in the Company at a specified exercise price: Performance Share Award, being a right to acquire a specified amount of Ordinary Shares in the Company at nil cost: and Deferred Bonus Award.
Initial performance share awards under the Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP were granted on 25 June 2009 with 482,961 shares allocated to certain Executive Directors and members of senior management of the Group, out of which 220,830 shares are held by the EBT and the Company assumed the obligation to issue the remaining shares upon vesting of the LTIP.
Performance Share Awards granted on 25 June 2009 vest or become exercisable subject to the following provisions: 50% of the shares subject to the award may be acquired based on a condition relating to total shareholder return the TSR Condition : and 50% of the shares subject to the award may be acquired based on specic conditions relating to the Groups business development and strategic plans the Operating Conditions.
The TSR Condition relates to growth in TSR over a three year period relative to the TSR growth of companies in a peer group of listed international mining companies selected upon establishment of the Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP the Comparator Group over the same period.
The TSR Condition provides for the award to vest or become exercisable as follows: % of the award vesting Within top decile 50% At median 25% Below median Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 159 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 30.
Share based payments continued The detailed requirements to the Operating Conditions are determined by the Remuneration Committee and will be measured over a three year period from the date of grant.
The fair value of performance share awards was determined using the Black Scholes model at the date of grant in relation to the proportion of the awards vesting based on the operating performance conditions and using the Monte Carlo model in relation to the proportion of the awards vesting based on the TSR condition.
The relevant assumptions are set out in the table below.
Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP performance share awards Vesting based on operating performance Vesting based on conditions TSR condition Date of grant 25 June 2009 25 June 2009 Number of performance share awards granted 241,480 241,481 Share price at the date of grant, 6.0 6.0 Exercise price, Expected volatility, % 72.98 72.98 Expected life in years 33 Risk-free rate, % 2.13 2.13 Expected dividends yield, % Expected annual forfeitures Fair value per award, 4.46 6.00 On 12 May 2011, the Group granted further performance share awards under the Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP with 1,524,347 shares allocated to certain Executive Directors, members of senior management and certain other employees of the Group, out of which 1,098,904 shares are held by the EBT and the Company assumed the obligation to issue the remaining shares upon vesting of the LTIP.
Performance share awards vest or become exercisable subject to the following provisions: 70% of the shares subject to the award may be acquired at nil cost based on a condition relating to the total shareholder return the TSR of the Company compared with the TSR of a selected comparator group the First TSR Condition : and 30% of the shares subject to the award may be acquired at nil cost based on a condition relating to growth in TSR of the Company compared to the FTSE 350 mining index the Second TSR Condition.
160 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements The First TSR Condition relates to growth in TSR over a three-year period relative to the TSR growth of companies in a selected peer group of listed international mining companies the Comparator Group over the same period.
The First TSR Condition provides for the award to vest or become exercisable as follows: % of the award vesting Within top decile 70% At median 35% Below median The Second TSR Condition relates to growth in TSR over a three year period relative to the growth in TSR of companies in FTSE 350 mining index the Index Comparator Group over the same period.
The Second TSR Condition provides for the award to vest or become exercisable as follows: % of the award vesting At median 13.5% p. a.
30% At median 15% Below median The fair value of share awards was determined using the Monte Carlo model.
Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP performance share awards Vesting based on Vesting based on the First TSR the Second TSR Condition Condition Date of grant 12 May 2011 12 May 2011 Number of performance share awards granted 1,067,043 457,304 Share price at the date of grant, 8.15 8.15 Exercise price, Expected volatility, % 73.32 73.32 Expected life in years 33 Risk-free rate, % 1.53 1.53 Expected dividend yield, % Expected annual forfeitures Fair value per award, 6.16 5.77 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 161 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 30.
Share based payments continued IRC Limited Under the LTIP of IRC Limited, which was established on 11 August 2010, selected employees and Directors of IRC the Selected Grantees are to be awarded shares of IRC Limited which have been purchased by the EBT operated in conjunction with the IRC LTIP.
Upon the IRC managements recommendation, the number of shares awarded to the Selected Grantees shall be determined, together with the vesting dates for various tranches, by the Board of IRC Limited.
Any LTIP awarded to a Selected Grantee who is a Director of the Company shall be subject to the Boards approval following a recommendation from the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
The details of share awards outstanding under LTIP of IRC Limited are set out below.
Number of shares of IRC Limited granted on granted on granted on 3 November 1 August 1 July 2010 2011 2012 Outstanding at 1 January 2012 91,138,500 2,332,000 Granted during the year 1,000,000 Forfeited during the year Exercised and vested during the year Expired during the year Outstanding at 31 December 2012 91,138,500 2,332,000 1,000,000 The scheme has a three year vesting period and is subject to the certain vesting conditions as set out below.
Vesting conditions for the share awards granted on 2 November 2010 and 1 July 2012: 25% of the award vesting is relating to the achievement of certain production targets: 25% of the award vesting is relating to profitability: 25% of the award vesting is relating to the growth and development of the IRC: and 25% of the award vesting is relating to the meeting of certain health, safety and environmental requirements.
Vesting conditions for the share awards granted on 1 August 2011: 20% of the award vesting is relating to the achievement of certain production targets: 20% of the award vesting is relating to profitability: 20% of the award vesting is relating to the growth and development of IRC: 20% of the award vesting is relating to the meeting of certain health, safety and environmental requirements: and 20% of the award vesting is relating to the share price performance of IRC Limited.
The fair value of the services rendered as consideration of the awarded shares was measured by reference to the fair value of the awarded shares at the respective award dates and recognised in the consolidated income statement over the vesting period.
162 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 31.
Analysis of net debt Transferred to assets classied as held for sale At and At 1 January Acquisition of Disposal of Net cash Exchange Non-cash associated 31 December a 2012 subsidiaries subsidiaries movement movement changes liabilities 2012 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cash and cash equivalents 213,556 920 7,725 49,565 4,626 18,036 159,226 Debt due within one year 216,430 416 235,560 3 118,472 15,140 83,789 Debt due after one year 790,408 495,403 130 37,874 109,335 1,138,732 Restricted bank deposit 6,000 6,000 b Net debt 787,282 920 8,141 309,408 4,493 80,598 100,439 1,063,295 a Note 28. b Being amortisation of borrowings.
Financial instruments and financial risk management Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benets for other stakeholders and to optimise the weighted average cost of capital and tax efficiency subject to maintaining sufficient financial exibility to undertake its investment plans.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt as detailed in note 31 and equity comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
As at 31 December 2012, the capital comprised US$2.7 billion 2011: US$2.7 billion.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group adopts a modular approach in developing its projects in order to minimise upfront capital expenditure and related funding requirements.
The Group manages in detail its funding requirements on a 12 month rolling basis and maintains a five year forecast in order to identify medium-term funding needs.
Following the listing of IRC Limited on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, its capital is managed separately by the Independent Board of IRC Limited.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
significant accounting policies Details of significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Categories of financial instruments 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 159,226 213,556 Loans and receivables 60,183 39,111 Available-for-sale investments 255 561 Financial liabilities At amortised cost trade and other payables 71,595 85,218 At amortised cost borrowings 1,222,521 1,006,838 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 163 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 32.
Financial instruments and financial risk management continued Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, risk of change in the commodity prices, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by a central finance department and all key risk management decisions are approved by the Board of Directors.
The Group identies and evaluates financial risks in close cooperation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as guidance covering specic areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, gold price risk, credit risk and investment of excess liquidity.
Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises primarily from borrowings.
The Group is exposed to cash ow interest rate risk through borrowing at oating interest rates and to fair value interest rate risk through borrowing at xed interest rates.
At present, the Group does not undertake any interest rate hedging activities.
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on exposure to interest rates for the average balance of oating interest-bearing borrowings.
If interest rates had been 1% higher lower and all other variables held constant, the Groups profit for the year ended 31 December 2012 would decrease increase by US$3.63 million 2011: decrease increase by US$0.87 million.
This is attributable to the Groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings.
Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from uctuations in currencies in which the Group transacts, primarily US Dollars, GB Pounds Sterling and Russian Roubles.
Exchange rate risks are mitigated to the extent considered necessary by the Board of Directors, through holding the relevant currencies.
At present, the Group does not undertake any foreign currency transaction hedging.
The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at period end are as set out below.
The following table illustrates the Groups profit sensitivity to the uctuation of the major currencies in which it transacts.
A 10% movement has been applied to an average outstanding foreign currency denominated balance 2011: 10%, representing managements assessment of a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange currency rates.
2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Russian Roubles currency impact 10,569 15,042 EUR currency impact 1,470 293 US Dollar currency impact 920 1,096 GB Pounds Sterling currency impact 989 1,191 Other currencies 27 95 164 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents, comprising current accounts, amounts held on deposit with financial institutions and investments in money market and liquidity funds.
In the case of deposits and investments in money market and liquidity funds, the Group is exposed to a credit risk, which results from the non-performance of contractual agreements on the part of the contract party.
The credit risk on liquid funds held in current accounts and available on demand is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies, with the exception of Asian-Pacic Bank, which does not have an ofcially assigned credit rating.
Having performed a high level due diligence, management does not consider the credit risk associated with Asian-Pacic Bank to be high.
Asian-Pacic Bank has a wide network of branches in the Amur region and, therefore, is extensively used by the entities of the precious metals segment note 26.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is limited to the carrying amounts of the financial assets recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The major financial assets at the balance sheet date are cash and cash equivalents held with the counterparties as set out below.
Carrying Carrying amount at amount at 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Counterparty Credit rating US$000 US$000 Alfa Bank BBB- 120,793 52 Sberbank BBB 10,550 45,457 UBS A 7,254 55,270 Asian-Pacic Bank 5,622 19,972 VTB BBB 3,975 6,599 Royal Bank of Scotland A 2,919 62,986 Commodity price risk The Group generates most of its revenue from the sale of gold and iron ore concentrate.
The Groups policy is to sell its products at the prevailing market price.
In February 2013, the Group has entered into nancing contracts to sell a total of 399,000oz of gold over a period of 14 months ending in March 2014 at an average price of US$1,663 oz in order to protect cash ows from the volatility in the gold price.
Equity price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risk through the investment in IRC note 28.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 165 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 32.
Financial instruments and financial risk management continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that suitable sources of funding for the Groups business activities may not be available.
The Group constantly monitors the level of funding required to meet its short, medium and long term obligations.
The Group also monitors compliance with restrictive covenants set out in various loan agreements note 20 to ensure there is no breach of covenants resulting in associated loans become payable immediately.
Effective management of liquidity risk has the objective of ensuring the availability of adequate funding to meet short-term requirements and due obligations as well as the objective of ensuring a sufficient level of exibility in order to fund the development plans of the Groups businesses.
The table below details the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities with agreed repayment periods.
The amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash ows, these balances will not necessarily agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
The contractual maturity is based on the earliest date on which the Group may be required to pay.
Loans outstanding at 31 December 2012 in the amount of US$275 million 2011: US$337 million are subject to variable interest rates and, therefore, subject to change in line with the market rates.
166 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 33.
Operating lease arrangements The Group as a Lessee 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 13,077 4,640 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under a non-cancellable operating lease for ofce premises, which fall due as follows: 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Expiring: Within one year 223 9,989 In two to five years 21,181 223 31,170 The Group as a Lessor The Group earned property rental income during the year of US$2.6 million 2011: US$2.6 million on buildings owned by its subsidiaries Irgiredmet and Giproruda.
Capital commitments At 31 December 2012, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and mine development costs amounting to US$72.1 million, including US$52.3 million in relation to the POX Hub 2011: US$494.7 million, including US$52.3 million in relation to the POX Hub and US$328.2 million in relation to development of the K&S project.
Subsequent events Issue of shares by IRC Limited On 17 January 2013, IRC Limited entered into conditional subscription agreements with each of General Nice Development Limited General Nice and Minmetals Cheerglory Limited Minmetals for an investment by General Nice and Minmetals in new shares of IRC Limited for up to approximately HK$1,845 million approximately US$238 million in aggregate the Share Issue Transaction.
In addition, IRC Limited has also entered into a long-term offtake arrangement Offtake Arrangement with General Nice and Minmetals in respect of IRCs products.
Details are set out below.
i General Nice Subscription General Nice has conditionally agreed to subscribe for a total of 851,600,000 new shares of the Company at the price of HK$0.94 approximately US$0.12 per new share, of which 817,536,000 new shares will be allotted and issued upon General Nice initial subscription completion.
The remaining 34,064,000 new shares will be allotted and issued upon, among other things, the allotment of General Nice Further Subscription Shares as dened below.
In addition, IRC Limited has also granted General Nice a right to subscribe for 863,600,000 new Shares General Nice Further Subscription Shares, which may be exercised at General Nices discretion within six months after the General Nice initial subscription completion date.
Assuming total investment completion occurs, the General Nice will, in aggregate, hold approximately 31.43% of the issued share capital of IRC Limited as enlarged by the Share Issue Transaction.
ii Minmetals Subscription Minmetals has conditionally agreed to subscribe for a total of 247,300,000 new shares of IRC Limited at the price of HK$0.94 approximately US$0.12 per new share.
The Minmetals subscription completion is conditional upon, among other things, the completion of the General Nice Further Subscription.
Assuming total investment completion occurs, Minmetals will hold approximately 4.53% of the issued share capital of IRC Limited as enlarged by the Share Issue Transaction.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 167 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 35.
Subsequent events continued iii Offtake Arrangement Under the Offtake Arrangement, which applies to all of the existing and future iron ore projects of IRC other than the Kuranakh project and other specified types of projects and in respect of products with an iron content of 32% or greater, i IRC Limited shall sell and General Nice and Minmetals shall purchase product which is nominated by IRC Limited to be sold through the seaborne market: and ii General Nice and Minmetals shall assist the IRC in developing its sales and marketing capacity in the dry port market i. e. product to be exported by rail crossing rather than by sea and in the identication of customers for its products which are not sold through the seaborne market to the General Nice and Minmetals, for which IRC Limited shall pay General Nice and Minmetals a marketing commission.
The above transactions have been approved at the Companys Extraordinary General Meeting on 7 March 2013 and the Extraordinary General Meeting of IRC Limited on 11 March 2013.
The Directors expect that the General Nice initial subscription will take place in April 2013 and further, expect the subscription in relation to the General Nice Further Subscription Shares and Minmetals Subscription to take place within six months from the General Nice Initial subscription completion date in April 2013.
Assuming total investment completion occurs, the Groups interest in the share capital of IRC Limited would be diluted from 63.13% held at 31 December 2012 to 40.43%.
A pro-rata indemnity from General Nice in relation to the Companys guarantee under the ICBC Facility Agreement note 28 will be then implemented.
Hedging agreements In February 2013, the Group has entered into nancing contracts to sell a total of 399,000oz of gold over a period of 14 months ending in March 2014 at an average price of US$1,663 oz.
Final dividend On 27 March 2013, the Board of Directors resolved to recommend a final dividend comprising a cash payment of 0.02 per Ordinary Share, together with an entitlement to new shares, with an attributable value of 0.05 per Ordinary Share.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures 2012 2011 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 profit loss for the period 92,453 336,401 243,948 238,057 2,432 240,489 Add less : Interest expense 74,991 74,991 39,641 39,641 Investment income 2,121 2,121 3,119 3,119 Other finance losses 13,581 13,581 2,381 2,381 Foreign exchange gains losses 8,033 8,033 9,833 9,833 Reversal of gain attributed to re-measuring a equity interest in Omchak 25,480 25,480 Net gain on acquisition of Jiatai Titanium 1,439 1,439 Taxation 48,124 8,845 39,279 120,835 120,835 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 270,181 318,309 588,490 174,280 14,241 188,521 Underlying EBITDA 489,176 1,457 487,719 581,908 15,234 597,142 a Gain on re-measuring of equity interest in Omchak on acquisition in 2010 associated with Omchak assets disposed during the year ended 31 December 2012.
168 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 37.
Group companies The Group has the following principal subsidiaries and other significant investments, which were consolidated in this financial information.
Proportion of shares held Proportion of shares held by Petropavlovsk PLC by the Group Principal subsidiary, joint venture and Country of 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December associate undertakings incorporation Principal activity 2012 2011 2012 2011 Subsidiary CJSC Management Company Petropavlovsk Russia Management company 100% 100% 100% 100% Petropavlovsk 2010 Jersey Finance company 100% 100% 100% 100% OJSC Pokrovskiy Rudnik Russia Gold exploration and production 43.5% 43.5% 98.61% 98.61% CJSC Amur Dor Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% OJSC ZDP Koboldo Russia Gold exploration and production 95.7% 95.7% CJSC Malomirskiy Rudnik Russia Gold exploration and production 99.86% 99.86% LLC Albynskiy Rudnik Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% LLC Olga Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% LLC Osipkan Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% LLC Tokurskiy Rudnik Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% LLC Rudoperspektiva Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% CJSC Region Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% CJSC Verkhnetisskaya Ore Mining Company Russia Gold exploration and production 70% 70% CJSC YamalZoloto Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% OJSC Yamalskaya Gornaya Kompania Russia Gold exploration and production 74.87% 74.87% LLC Iljinskoye Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% LLC Potok Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% LLC Amurmetal Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% OJSC Temi Russia Gold exploration and production 75% 75% LLC Amurskie Rossypi Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% a CJSC Berelekh Russia Gold exploration and production 76.62% 76.62% LLC ZeyaZoloto Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% LLC Uduma Russia Gold exploration and production 100% Major Miners Inc. Guyana Gold exploration and production 100% 100% Universal Mining Inc. Guyana Gold exploration and production 100% 100% Cuyuni River Ventures Inc. Guyana Gold exploration and production 100% 100% CJSC SeverChrome Russia Chrome exploration and production 100% LLC Kapstroi Russia Construction services 100% 100% LLC NPGF Regis Russia Exploration services 100% 100% CJSC ZRK Dalgeologiya Russia Exploration services 98.6% 98.6% CJSC PHM Engineering Russia Project and engineering services 94% 94% OJSC Irgiredmet Russia Research services 99.69% 99.69% LLC NIC Gidrometallurgiya Russia Research services 100% 100% LLC BMRP Russia Repair and maintenance 100% 100% LLC AVT-Amur Russia Production of explosive materials 49% 49% LLC Transit Russia Transportation Services 99.86% 99.86% Pokrovskiy Mining College Russia Educational institute 98.61% 98.61% Associate b CJSC ZRK Omchak Russia Gold exploration and production 25% 90% 25% 90% a Including subsidiaries of OJSC Berelekh, being LLC Maldyak, LLC Monolit and LLC Elita.
b Including subsidiary of CJSC ZRK Omchak, being LLC Kaurchak.
CJSC ZRK Omchak was a subsidiary until December 2012 note 29.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 169 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 37.
Group companies continued Proportion of shares held Proportion of shares held by Petropavlovsk PLC by the Group Principal subsidiary, joint venture and Country of 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December associate undertakings incorporation Principal activity 2012 2011 2012 2011 IRC Limited and its principal subsidiary, c joint venture and associate undertakings IRC IRC Limited HK Management and holding company 63.13% 65.61% Principal subsidiaries of IRC Limited LLC Petropavlovsk Iron Ore Russia Management company 63.13% 65.61% LLC Olekminsky Rudnik Russia Iron ore exploration and production 63.13% 65.61% LLC Kimkano-Sutarskiy Gorno-Obogatitelniy Kombinat Russia Iron ore exploration and production 63.13% 65.61% LLC Garinsky Mining & Metallurgical Complex Russia Iron ore exploration and production 62.86% 65.33% LLC Kostenginskiy Gorno-Obogatitelniy Kombinat Russia Iron ore exploration and production 63.13% 65.61% LLC Orlovo-Sokhatinsky Gorno-Obogatitelniy Kombinat Russia Iron ore exploration and production 63.13% 65.61% LLC Karier Ushumunskiy Russia Iron ore exploration and production 63.13% 65.61% OJSC Giproruda Russia Engineering services 44.37% 46.11% LLC Rubicon Russia Infrastructure project 63.13% 65.61% CJSC SGMTP Russia Infrastructure project 63.13% 65.61% LLC AmurSnab Russia Procurement services 63.13% 65.61% Heilongjiang Jiatai Titanium Co. Limited China Titanium sponge project 63.13% 65.61% d LLC Uralmining Russia Iron ore exploration and production 63.13% 32.15% LLC Gorniy Park Russia Molybdenym project 31.63% Joint ventures of IRC Limited Heilongjiang Jianlong Vanadium Industries Co. Limited China Vanadium project 29.04% 30.18% c After taking account of the 3.32% 2011: 3.36% shares retained within the Employee benefit Trust operated in conjunction with the long-term incentive schemes of IRC Limited, the Groups effective interest in the equity of IRC Limited is 65.30% 2011: 67.96%.
d LLC Uralmining was an associate until it was acquired in July 2012 note 27.
