ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 inDepenDent AuDitors report to tHe MeMBers oFArM HoLDinGs pLc We have audited the Group financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities included in the Directors report, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express anopinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Thosestandards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part16of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consentin writing.
scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
opinion on other matter prescribed by the companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared isconsistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement in the Directors report in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on the information in the Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Charles Bowman Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, 27 February 2013 92 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements In this section Consolidated income statement Read more on page 94 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Read more on page 94 Consolidated balance sheet Read more on page 95 Consolidated cash flow statement Read more on page 96 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity Read more on page 97 Notes to the financial statements Read more on page 98 Company balance sheet UK GAAP Read more on page 142 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP Read more on page 143 Independent auditors report to themembers of ARM Holdings plc Read more on page 149 Glossary Read more on page 150 Group directory Read more on page 151 Key shareholder information Read more on page 152 93 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Consolidated income statement 2012 2011 Note m m For the year ended 31 December Revenues 2 576.9 491.8 Cost of revenues 31.9 27.7 Gross profit 545.0 464.1 Operating expenses Research and development 166.3 165.4 Sales and marketing 72.9 72.6 General and administrative 97.7 77.2 Total operating expenses 336.9 315.2 Profit from operations 208.1 148.9 Investment income 13.9 8.0 Interest payable and similar charges 0.3 Share of results in joint venture 29 0.7 Profit before tax 2, 5 221.0 156.9 Tax 6 60.3 44.3 Profit for the year 2 160.7 112.6 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings 160.7 112.6 Number of shares millions Basic weighted average number of shares 1,375.1 1,345.0 Effect of dilutive securities: Employee incentive schemes 20.7 31.0 Diluted weighted average number of shares 1,395.8 1,376.0 Basic EPS 8 11.7p 8.4p Diluted EPS 8 11.5p 8.2p All the profit for the year is attributable to the owners of the Company.
The Company has opted to present its own accounts under UK GAAP as shown on pages 142 to 148.
Details of dividends paid and proposed are in notes 7 and 28 of the financial statements respectively.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2012 2011 Note m m For the year ended 31 December Profit for the year 160.7 112.6 Other comprehensive income: Unrealised holding loss gain on available-for-sale financial assets net of tax of 0.1m 2011: 0.1m 13 0.3 0.3 Currency translation adjustment 26.8 1.2 Other comprehensive loss income for the year 27.1 1.5 Total comprehensive income for the year 133.6 114.1 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
94 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements Consolidated balance sheet 2012 2011 Note m m At 31 December Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 9, 19 46.3 26.8 Short-term deposits 19 340.0 319.1 Fair value of currency exchange contracts 19 1.4 Embedded derivatives 19 1.2 Accounts receivable 10 124.5 119.6 Prepaid expenses and other assets 11 135.6 30.7 Current tax assets 13.9 6.2 Inventories 12 2.3 2.5 Total current assets 664.0 506.1 Non-current assets: Long-term deposits 19 141.3 83.1 Loans and receivables 19 2.1 2.0 Available-for-sale financial assets 13, 19 13.8 27.3 Investment in joint venture 29 6.8 Prepaid expenses and other assets 11 2.0 2.3 Property, plant and equipment 14 36.1 18.1 Goodwill 15 519.4 542.5 Other intangible assets 16 11.2 12.5 Deferred tax assets 6 70.1 105.9 Total non-current assets 802.8 793.7 Total assets 1,466.8 1,299.8 Liabilities and shareholders equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable 19 5.9 8.7 Fair value of currency exchange contracts 19 1.5 Embedded derivatives 19 2.5 Accrued and other liabilities 17 79.3 84.9 Finance lease liabilities 18 2.9 Current tax liabilities 16.6 26.7 Deferred revenue 126.4 102.2 Total current liabilities 233.6 224.0 Non-current liabilities: Finance lease liabilities 18 2.9 Deferred revenue 24.2 14.6 Total non-current liabilities 27.1 14.6 Total liabilities 260.7 238.6 Net assets 1,206.1 1,061.2 Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company Share capital 20 0.7 0.7 Share premium account 12.2 6.6 Capital reserve 354.3 351.6 Share option reserve 61.4 61.4 Retained earnings 703.3 539.6 Revaluation reserve 0.3 Cumulative translation adjustment 74.2 101.0 Total equity 1,206.1 1,061.2 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 94 to 141 were approved by the Board of directors on 27 February 2013 and were signed on its behalf by: Sir John Buchanan, Chairman 95 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Consolidated cash flow statement 2012 2011 Note m m For the year ended 31 December Profit before tax 221.0 156.9 Investment income net of interest payable and similar charges 13.6 8.0 Share of results in joint venture 0.7 Profit from operations 208.1 148.9 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 17.4 13.2 Compensation charge in respect of share-based payments 37.1 40.5 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 1.4 1.6 Profit loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 0.8 0.1 Provision for doubtful debts 0.4 Non-cash foreign currency gains 0.7 2.2 Movement in fair value of currency exchange contracts 2.9 1.3 Movement in fair value of embedded derivatives 3.7 1.2 Changes in working capital Accounts receivable 5.7 13.4 Inventories 0.1 0.6 Prepaid expenses and other assets 11 104.8 12.3 Accounts payable 2.8 4.3 Deferred revenue 37.3 23.3 Accrued and other liabilities 4.8 10.2 Cash generated by operations before tax 183.0 216.1 Income taxes paid 26.1 22.3 Net cash from operating activities 156.9 193.8 Investing activities Interest received 11.5 4.2 Interest paid 0.3 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 20.2 12.1 Purchases of other intangible assets 16 5.4 0.8 Purchases of available-for-sale financial assets 13 3.0 8.3 Proceeds on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 11.8 Purchase of shortand long-term deposits, net 76.8 136.4 Purchase of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 22 9.0 Investment in joint venture 29 7.5 Net cash used in investing activities 89.9 162.4 Financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 99.8 Proceeds received on issuance of shares from treasury 1.9 Proceeds received on issuance of shares 20 5.6 6.6 Refund of costs related to share issue 2.7 Dividends paid to shareholders 7 51.8 42.2 Repayment of borrowings 99.8 Repayment of finance lease liabilities 3.3 Net cash used in financing activities 46.8 33.7 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 20.2 2.3 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 9 26.8 29.4 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.7 0.3 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 9 46.3 26.8 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
96 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity Attributable to the owners of the Company Cumulative Share Share translation Share premium Capital option Retained Revaluation adjustment capital account reserve reserve earnings reserve Total m m m m m m m m For the year ended 31 December Balance at 1 January 2011 0.7 351.6 61.4 381.4 99.8 894.9 Profit for the year 112.6 112.6 Other comprehensive income: Unrealised holding gain on available-for-sale financial assets net of tax of 0.1 million 0.3 0.3 Currency translation adjustment 1.2 1.2 Total comprehensive income for the year 112.6 0.3 1.2 114.1 Shares issued on exercise of share options and awards note 20 6.6 6.6 Dividends note 7 42.2 42.2 Credit in respect of employee share schemes 40.5 40.5 Movement on tax arising on share options and awards 45.4 45.4 Proceeds from sale of own shares 1.9 1.9 6.6 45.6 52.2 Balance at 31 December 2011 0.7 6.6 351.6 61.4 539.6 0.3 101.0 1,061.2 Profit for the year 160.7 160.7 Other comprehensive income: Unrealised holding loss on available-for-sale financial assets net of tax of 0.1 million 0.3 0.3 Currency translation adjustment 26.8 26.8 Total comprehensive income for the year 160.7 0.3 26.8 133.6 Shares issued on exercise of share options and awards note 20 5.6 5.6 Dividends note 7 51.8 51.8 Credit in respect of employee share schemes 37.1 37.1 Movement on tax arising on share options and awards 17.7 17.7 Refund of costs related to share issue 2.7 2.7 5.6 2.7 3.0 11.3 Balance at 31 December 2012 0.7 12.2 354.3 61.4 703.3 74.2 1,206.1 Capital reserve.
In 2004, the premium on the shares issued in part consideration for the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. was credited to reserves on consolidation in accordance with Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985.
The reserve has been classified as a capital reserve to reflect the nature of the original credit to equity arising on acquisition.
This capital reserve is clearly distinguished from the share premium arising on share issues.
This represents the fair value of options granted on the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 2004.
The Group includes on its balance sheet equity investments that are not publicly traded, which are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
These are carried at fair value plus transaction costs.
Unrealised holding gains or losses on such investments are included, net of related taxes, within the revaluation reserve except where there is evidence of permanent impairment, in which case losses would be recognised within the income statement.
Any unrealised gains within this reserve are undistributable.
Refund of costs related to share issue.
During 2012, it was confirmed by HMRC that they would not challenge a ruling that the stamp duty incurred on the issue of shares of a UK company to a depositary or clearance system outside the EU was in breach of EU law.
The Group has therefore been able to claim a full refund of 2.7 million for stamp duty incurred on the issue of shares for the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 2004.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
97 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the financial statements 1 The Group and a summary of its significant accounting policies and financial risk management 1a General information about the Group The business of the Group ARM Holdings plc and its subsidiary companies ARM or the Group designs microprocessors, physical IP and related technology and software, and sells development tools, to enhance the performance, cost-effectiveness and energy-efficiency of high-volume embedded applications.
The Group licenses and sells its technology and products to leading international electronics companies, which in turn manufacture, market and sell microcontrollers, application-specific integrated circuits ASICs and application-specific standard processors ASSPs based on ARMs technology to systems companies for incorporation into a wide variety of end products.
By creating a network of Partners, and working with them to best utilise ARMs technology, the Group is establishing its processor architecture and physical IP for use in many high-volume embedded microprocessor applications, including mobile phones, tablets, digital televisions and PC peripherals and for use in many growing markets, including smart cards and microcontrollers.
The Group also licenses and sells development tools direct to systems companies and provides support services to its licensees, systems companies and other systems designers.
The Groups principal geographic markets are Europe, the US and Asia Pacific.
Incorporation and history ARM is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled under the laws of England and Wales.
The registered office of the Company is 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge, CB1 9NJ, UK.
The Company was formed on 16 October 1990, as a joint venture between Apple Computer UK Limited and Acorn Computers Limited, and operated under the name Advanced RISC Machines Holdings Limited until 10 March 1998, when its name was changed to ARM Holdings plc.
Its initial public offering was on 17 April 1998.
Group undertakings include ARM Limited incorporated in the UK, ARM Inc. incorporated in the US, ARM KK incorporated in Japan, ARM Korea Limited incorporated in South Korea, ARM France SAS incorporated in France, ARM Germany GmbH incorporated in Germany, ARM Norway AS incorporated in Norway, ARM Sweden AB incorporated in Sweden, ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt.
Limited incorporated in India, ARM Taiwan Limited incorporated in Taiwan and ARM Consulting Shanghai Co. Limited incorporated in PR China.
1b Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the presentation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by: the revaluation to fair value of availablefor-sale financial assets: financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the income statement: and embedded derivatives.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments The preparation of these financial statements requires the directors to make critical accounting estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
These estimates and judgments are summarised in note 1d.
98 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued New standards, amendments and interpretations Standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted IFRS 9 Financial instruments on classification and measurement This is the first part of a new standard to replace IAS 39.
IFRS 9 has two measurement categories: amortised cost and fair value.
All equity instruments are measured at fair value.
A debt instrument is measured at amortised cost only if the entity is holding it to collect contractual cash flows and the cash flows represent principal and interest.
Otherwise it is measured at fair value through the income statement.
This standard is not expected to have a material impact on the results of the Group.
Published by the IASB in November 2009, this is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
This standard is not yet endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements IFRS 10 replaces the guidance on control and consolidation in IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements, and SIC-12 Consolidation special purpose entities and changes the definition of control so that the same criteria are applied to all entities.
The revised definition of control focuses on the need to have both power and variable returns before control is present.
Power is the current ability to direct the activities that significantly influence returns.
Returns must vary and can be positive, negative or both.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and was endorsed by the EU in December 2012.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements Changes in the definitions have reduced the types of joint arrangements to two: joint operations and joint ventures.
The existing policy choice of proportionate consolidation for jointly controlled entities has been eliminated.
Equity accounting is mandatory for participants in joint ventures.
Entities that participate in joint operations will follow accounting much like that for joint assets or joint operations today, whereby a joint operator will recognise its interest based on its involvement in the joint operation that is, based on its direct rights and obligations rather than on the participation interest it has in the joint arrangement.
In contrast, a joint venture does not have rights to individual assets or obligations for individual liabilities of the joint venture.
Instead, joint venturers share in the net assets and, in turn, the outcome profit or loss of the activity undertaken by the joint venture.
This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and was endorsed by the EU in December 2012.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities IFRS 12 sets out the required disclosures for entities reporting under the two new standards, IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, and IFRS 11 Joint arrangements.
The new standard, IFRS 12, requires entities to disclose information that helps financial statement readers to evaluate the nature, risks and financial effects associated with the entitys interests in subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements and unconsolidated structured entities.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement The requirements do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other standards.
IFRS 13 aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
IAS 28 Revised Investments in associates and joint ventures IAS 28 defines significant influence and the equity method and provides guidance on their practical application.
The revised standard incorporates the accounting for joint ventures as well as the consensus from SIC-13 Jointly controlled entities.
The disclosure requirements have now been relocated to IFRS 12.
This new guidance may impact the classification of investments acquired in the future.
Amendment to IAS 1 Financial statement presentation The main change resulting from this amendment is a requirement for entities to group items presented in other comprehensive income OCI on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to the income statement subsequently reclassification adjustments.
This standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012 and was endorsed by the EU in June 2012.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
99 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued New standards, amendments and interpretations continued IAS 27 revised 2011 Separate financial statements This standard includes the provisions on separate financial statements that are left after the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new IFRS 10.
This standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and was endorsed by the EU in December 2012.
Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation This amendment updates the application guidance in IAS 32 to clarify some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
This standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and was endorsed by the EU in December 2012.
Annual improvements 2011 This set of amendments includes changes to five standards.
These amendments are not yet endorsed by the EU and are not expected to have a material impact on the Group when they become effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Segment reporting At 31 December 2012, the Group was organised on a world-wide basis into three business segments, namely the Processor Division PD, the Physical IP Division PIPD and the System Design Division SDD.
This is based upon the Groups internal organisation and management structure and is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM and the rest of the Board are provided with financial information.
The directors believe that the CODM is the Chief Executive Officer of the Group.
Segment expenses are expenses that are directly attributable to a segment together with the relevant portion of other expenses that can reasonably be allocated by segment.
Foreign exchange gains or losses, investment income, interest payable and similar charges, share of joint venture results, and tax are not allocated by segment.
Segment assets and liabilities include items that are directly attributable to a segment plus an allocation on a reasonable basis of shared items.
Corporate assets and liabilities are not included in business segments and are thus unallocated.
At 31 December 2012 and 2011, these comprised cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits, available-for-sale financial assets, loans and receivables, embedded derivatives, and the fair value of currency exchange contracts.
Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities and VAT are also not included in business segments and are thus unallocated.
Principles of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries.
Intra-group transactions, including sales, profits, receivables and payables, have been eliminated on consolidation.
All subsidiaries use uniform accounting policies.
Business combinations The results of subsidiaries acquired are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
Assets and liabilities existing at the date of acquisition are recorded at their fair values reflecting their condition at that date.
Earn-outs paid as part of an acquisition are assessed on an individual basis and treated as either part of the acquisition consideration or as employee compensation depending on the nature of the agreement.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the Groups share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
Joint ventures Joint ventures are all entities in which the Group has joint control with one or more other parties, whereby each party has a right to a share of the net assets of the entity.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
100 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency The functional currency of each Group entity is the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the presentation currency of the Group.
b Transactions and balances Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into the functional currency of each Group entity at actual rates of exchange at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences have been included in general and administrative expenses.
c Group companies The results and financial positions of all Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy not based in the UK are translated into sterling as follows: i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date: ii income and expenses for each income statement presented are translated at the rates of exchange at the time of each transaction during the period: and iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity, being taken through other comprehensive income via the cumulative translation adjustment.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recognised through other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rates of exchange.
Revenue recognition The Group follows the principles of IAS 18, Revenue recognition, in determining appropriate revenue recognition policies.
In principle, therefore, revenue associated with the sale of goods is recognised when all of the following conditions have been satisfied: the Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods: the Group does not retain either continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership or effective control over the goods sold: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group: and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
Revenue associated with the rendering of services is recognised when all of the following conditions have been satisfied: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group: the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period can be measured reliably: and the costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably.
Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts, and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue comprises the value of sales of licences to ARM technology, royalties arising from the resulting sale of licensees ARM technology-based products, revenues from support, maintenance and training, consulting contracts and the sale of development boards and software toolkits.
Revenue from standard licence products which are not modified to meet the specific requirements of each customer is recognised when all of the conditions relevant to revenue associated with the sale of goods have been satisfied: the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred when a licence arrangement has been agreed and the goods have been delivered to the customer: continuing managerial involvement and effective control over goods sold is relinquished at the point at which goods are delivered to the customer: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: any consideration due under the licensing arrangement that is not deemed to be reliably measurable is deferred until it can be measured reliably: and 101 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition continued it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group: any economic benefits of the transaction that are deemed unlikely to flow to the Group are deferred until it becomes probable that they will flow to the Group.
The majority of the Groups revenues come from the licensing of intellectual property and subsequent receipt of royalty revenues and there are therefore very few direct costs associated with the sale of goods: where there are direct costs of revenues, these are measured with reference to the purchasing agreements in place with the Groups suppliers.
Many licence agreements are for products which are designed to meet the specific requirements of each customer.
Revenue from the sale of such licences is recognised on a  basis over the period from signing of the licence to customer acceptance.
Under the  method, provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognised in the period in which the likelihood of such losses is determined.
The  is measured by monitoring progress using records of actual time incurred to date in the project compared with the total estimated project requirement, which approximates to the extent of performance.
Where invoicing milestones in licence arrangements are such that the receipts fall due significantly outside the period over which the customisation is expected to be performed or significantly outside its normal payment terms for standard licence arrangements, the Group evaluates whether it is probable that economic benefits associated with these milestones will flow to the Group and therefore whether these receipts should initially be included in the arrangement consideration.
In particular, it considers: whether there is sufficient certainty that the invoice will be raised in the expected timeframe, particularly where the invoicing milestone is in some way dependent on customer activity: whether it has sufficient evidence that the customer considers that the Groups contractual obligations have been, or will be, fulfilled: whether there is sufficient certainty that only those costs expected to be incurred will indeed be incurred before the customer will accept that a future invoice may be raised: and the extent to which previous experience with similar product groups and similar customers supports the conclusions reached.
Where the Group considers that there is insufficient evidence that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with such future milestones will flow to the Group, taking into account these criteria, such milestones are excluded from the arrangement consideration until there is sufficient evidence that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
The Group does not discount future invoicing milestones, as the effect of so doing would be immaterial.
Where agreements involve several components, the entire fee from such arrangements is allocated to each of the individual components based on each components fair value, where fair value is the price that is regularly charged for an item when sold separately.
Where a component in a multiplecomponent agreement has not previously been sold separately, the assessment of fair value for that component is based on other factors including, but not limited to, the price charged when it was sold alongside other items and the book price of the component relative to the book prices of the other components in the agreement.
If fair value of one or more components in a multiple-component agreement is not determinable where such component is not considered incidental to the overall arrangement, the entire arrangement fee is deferred until such fair value is determinable, or the component has been delivered to the licensee.
Where, in substance, two or more elements of a contract are linked and fair values cannot be allocated to the individual components, the revenue recognition criteria are applied to the elements as if they were a single element.
Agreements including rights to unspecified future products as opposed to unspecified upgrades and enhancements are accounted for using subscription accounting, with revenue from the arrangement being recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the arrangement, or an estimate of the economic life of the products offered if no term is specified, beginning with the delivery of the first product.
In addition to licence fees, contracts generally contain an agreement to provide post-delivery service support, in the form of support, maintenance and training which consists of the right to receive services and or unspecified product upgrades or enhancements that are offered on a  basis.
Fees for post-delivery service support are generally specified in the contract.
Revenue related to post-delivery service support is recognised based on fair value, which is determined with reference to contractual renewal rates.
If no renewal rates are specified, and fair value of the post-delivery support service cannot be determined by other methods, the entire fee under the transaction is amortised and recognised on a straight-line basis over the contractual post-delivery service support period.
Where renewal rates are specified, revenue for post-delivery service support is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period for which support and maintenance is contractually agreed by the Group with the licensee.
102 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition continued Sales of software, including development systems, which are not specifically designed for a given licence such as off-the-shelf software are recognised upon delivery, when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer.
At that time, the Group has no further obligations except that, where necessary, the costs associated with providing post-delivery service support have been accrued.
Services such as training that the Group provides which are not essential to the functionality of the IP are separately stated and priced in the contract and, therefore, accounted for separately.
Revenue is recognised as services are performed and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
Royalty revenues are earned on sales by the Groups customers of products containing ARM technology.
Royalty revenues are recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenues are recognised when the Group receives notification from the customer of product sales, or when the Group invoices any fixed royalties.
Notification is typically received in the quarter following shipment of the products by the customer.
If the amount of revenue recognised exceeds the amounts invoiced to customers, the excess amount is recorded as amounts recoverable on contracts within accounts receivable.
The excess of licence fees and post-delivery service support invoiced over revenue recognised is recorded as deferred revenue.
As disclosed above, in accordance with IAS 8, Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors, the Group makes significant estimates in applying its revenue recognition policies.
In particular, as discussed in detail above, estimates are made in relation to the use of the  accounting method, which requires that the extent of progress toward completion of contracts may be anticipated with reasonable certainty.
The use of the  method is itself based on the assumption that, at the outset of licence agreements, there is an insignificant risk that customer acceptance is not obtained.
The Group also makes assessments, based on prior experience, of the extent to which future milestone receipts represent a probable future economic benefit to the Group.
In addition, when allocating revenue to various components of arrangements involving several components, it is assumed that the fair value of each element is reflected by its price when sold separately.
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the revenue recognition policies affect the amounts reported in the financial statements.
If different assumptions were used, it is possible that different amounts would be reported in the financial statements.
Research and development expenditure All ongoing research expenditure is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
Where a product is technically feasible, production and sale are intended, a market exists, expenditure can be measured reliably, and sufficient resources are available to complete the project, development costs are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the respective product.
The Group believes its current process for developing products is essentially completed concurrently with the establishment of technological feasibility which is evidenced by a working model.
Accordingly, development costs incurred after the establishment of technological feasibility have not been significant and, therefore, no costs have been capitalised to date.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Any collaborative agreement whereby a third party agrees to partially fund the Groups research and development is recognised over the period of the agreement as a credit within research and development expenses.
Retirement benefit costs The Group contributes to defined contribution plans substantially covering all employees in Europe and the US and to government pension schemes for employees in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, PR China, Israel and India.
The Group contributes to these plans based upon various fixed percentages of employee compensation, and such contributions are expensed as incurred.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Costs, net of any lease incentives, in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if payments are not made on such a basis.
Finance leases Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the lessee are classified as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease liability.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement.
103 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges relate to interest income and expense, which is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividends Distributions to owners of the Company are not recognised in the income statement under IFRS, but are disclosed as a component of the movement in shareholders equity.
A liability is recorded for a dividend when the dividend is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised as a distribution when paid.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding treasury shares, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation.
The cost of property, plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
External costs and internal costs are capitalised to the extent they enhance the future economic benefit of the asset.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less their estimated residual values, which are adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
The principal economic lives used for this purpose are: Freehold buildings 25 years Leasehold improvements Five to ten years or term of lease, whichever is shorter Computer equipment Three to five years Fixtures and fittings, and motor vehicles Three to five years Provision is made against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment where an impairment in value is deemed to have occurred.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid on acquisition of a business over the fair value of the assets, including any intangible assets identified, and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is not amortised but is measured at cost less impairment losses.
In determining the fair value of consideration, the fair value of equity issued is the market value of equity at the date of completion, the fair value of share options is calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and the fair value of contingent consideration is based upon whether the directors believe any performance conditions will be met and thus whether any further consideration will be payable.
b Other intangible assets Computer software, purchased patents and licences to use technology are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straightline basis over an estimate of the time that the Group is expected to benefit from them.
Costs that are directly attributable to the development of new business application software and which are incurred during the period prior to the date that the software is placed into operational use, are capitalised.
Although an independent valuation is made of any intangible assets purchased as part of a business combination, the directors are primarily responsible for determining the fair value of intangible assets.
104 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets continued In-process research and development projects purchased as part of a business combination may meet the criteria set out in IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, for recognition as intangible assets other than goodwill.
Management tracks the status of in-process research and development intangible assets such that their amortisation commences when the assets are brought into use.
Amortisation is calculated so as to write off the cost of intangible assets, less their estimated residual values, which are adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
The principal economic lives used for this purpose are: Computer software Three to five years Patents and licences Three to ten years In-process research and development One to five years Developed technology One to five years Existing agreements and customer relationships One to six years Core technology Five years Trademarks and tradenames One to five years Order backlog One year Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows each a cash generating unit, CGU.
Where the recoverable amount of a CGU is measured based on a value-in-use calculation, all cash inflows and outflows associated with the CGU are taken into account whether these are explicitly charged or not.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
The annual impairment tests in 2012 and 2011 showed there was no impairment with respect to goodwill.
Furthermore, no trigger events have been identified that would suggest the impairment of any of the Groups other intangible assets.
Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, and available-forsale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition.
a Financial assets at fair value through the income statement Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are financial assets held for trading that is, assets that have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
They are initially recognised at fair value with transaction costs being expensed in the income statement.
Specifically, the Groups currency exchange contracts and embedded derivatives fall within this category.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through the income statement are presented in the income statement within general and administrative expenses in the period in which they arise.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as noncurrent assets.
Accounts receivable, cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits are classified as Loans and receivables see note 19.
Loans and receivables are measured initially at fair value and then subsequently measured at amortised cost.
105 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued c Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Equity investments that are not publicly traded are also classified as available-for-sale and are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs.
Given that the markets for these assets are not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
The estimated fair value of these investments approximated to cost less any permanent diminution in value based on estimates determined by management, except where independent valuation information is obtained.
Unrealised holding gains or losses on such securities are recognised, net of related taxes, through other comprehensive income via a revaluation reserve, except where there is evidence of permanent impairment in which case the loss is recognised through the income statement within general and administrative expenses.
Impairment of financial assets The Group considers at each reporting date whether there is any indication that financial assets are impaired.
If there is such an indication, the Group carries out an impairment test by measuring the assets recoverable amounts, which are the higher of the assets fair values less costs to sell and their values in use.
If the recoverable amounts are less than the carrying amounts an impairment loss is recognised, and the assets are written down to their recoverable amounts.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are permanently impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any permanent impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or permanently impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised through other comprehensive income are recycled through the income statement.
Impairment testing of trade receivables is described under Accounts receivable below.
Derivative financial instruments The Group utilises currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk on actual transactions related to accounts receivable, denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the business.
The Groups currency exchange contracts do not subject the Group to risk from exchange rate movements because the gains and losses on such contracts offset losses and gains, respectively, on the transactions being hedged.
The currency exchange contracts are recorded at fair value and the related foreign currency accounts receivable are revalued to spot rates at each period end.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of foreign currency options is based upon valuations performed by management and the respective banks holding the currency instruments.
All recognised gains and losses resulting from the settlement of the contracts are recorded within general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
The Group does not enter into currency exchange contracts for the purpose of hedging anticipated transactions.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Shortand long-term deposits The Group considers all highly-liquid investments with original maturity dates of greater than three months and maturing in less than one year to be short-term deposits.
Deposits with a maturity date of greater than one year from the balance sheet date are classified as long-term.
106 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Accounts receivable Accounts receivable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Accounts receivable are first assessed individually for impairment.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments more than 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable may be impaired.
Where there is no objective evidence of impairment for an individual receivable, it is included in a group of receivables with similar credit risk characteristics and these are collectively assessed for impairment.
In the case of impairment, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within general and administrative expenses.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first-in, first-out basis and includes transport and handling costs.
Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving and defective inventory.
Accounts payable Accounts payable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Income taxes The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Groups subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income taxes are computed using the liability method.
Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using enacted rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.
The deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will arise against which the temporary differences will be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities arising in the same tax jurisdiction are offset.
In the UK and the US, the Group is entitled to a tax deduction for amounts treated as compensation on exercise of certain employee share options or vest of share awards under each jurisdictions tax rules.
As explained under Share-based payments below, a compensation expense is recorded in the Groups income statement over the period from the grant date to the vesting date of the relevant options and awards.
As there is a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases, a deferred tax asset is recorded.
The deferred tax asset arising is calculated by comparing the estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained in the future based on the Companys share price at the balance sheet date with the cumulative amount of the compensation expense recorded in the income statement.
If the amount of estimated future tax deduction exceeds the cumulative amount of the compensation expense at the statutory rate, the excess is recorded directly in equity, against retained earnings.
Provisions Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount of the outflow can be reliably estimated.
107 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Embedded derivatives In accordance with IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, the Group has reviewed all its contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set out in the standard.
From time to time, the Group may enter into contracts denominated in a currency typically US dollars that is neither the functional currency of the Group entity nor the functional currency of the customer or the collaborative partner.
Where there are uninvoiced amounts on such contracts, the Group carries such derivatives at fair value.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement under general and administrative expenses.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
In accordance with IFRS 2, Share based payments, equity-settled sharebased payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The Group operates Save As You Earn SAYE schemes in the UK and an Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP in the US and India.
Options under the SAYE schemes are granted at a 20% discount to the market price of the underlying shares on the date of announcement of the scheme and at a 15% discount to the lower of the market prices at the beginning and end of the scheme for the ESPP.
The UK SAYE schemes are approved by the UK tax authorities, which stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months.
The Group has recognised a compensation charge in respect of the SAYE plans and ESPPs.
The charges for these are calculated as detailed above.
The Group also has a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP on which it is also required to recognise a compensation charge under IFRS 2, calculated as detailed above.
The share-based payments charge is allocated to cost of sales, research and development expenses, sales and marketing expenses and general and administrative expenses on the basis of headcount.
Employers taxes on share options Employers National Insurance in the UK and equivalent taxes in other jurisdictions are payable on the exercise of certain share options and vesting of share awards.
In accordance with IFRS 2, this is treated as a cash-settled transaction.
A provision is made, calculated using the intrinsic value of the relevant options and awards at the balance sheet date, and pro-rated over the vesting period of the options and awards.
Treasury shares Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental transaction costs is deducted from equity attributable to the owners of the Company until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of the Company.
Share capital Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
108 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 1c Financial risk management The Group operates in the intensely competitive semiconductor industry which has been characterised by price erosion, rapid technological change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns and heightened foreign and domestic competition.
Significant technological changes in the industry could affect operating results.
The Groups operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include currency risk, interest rate risk, securities price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Given the size of the Group, the directors have not delegated the responsibility for monitoring financial risk management to a sub-committee of the Board.
The policies set by the directors are implemented by the Groups finance and treasury departments.
The Group has a treasury policy that sets out specific guidelines to manage currency risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and also sets out circumstances where it would be appropriate to use financial instruments to manage these.
Currency risk The Groups earnings and liquidity are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, principally in respect of the US dollar, reflecting the fact that most of its revenues and cash receipts are denominated in US dollars, while a significant proportion of its costs are settled in sterling.
The Group seeks to use currency exchange contracts and currency options to manage the US dollar sterling risk as appropriate, by monitoring the timing and value of anticipated US dollar receipts which tend to arise from low-volume, high-value licence deals and royalty receipts in comparison with its requirement to settle certain expenses in US dollars.
The Group reviews the resulting exposure on a regular basis and hedges this exposure using currency exchange contracts and currency options for the sale of US dollars as appropriate.
Such contracts are entered into with the objective of matching their maturity with projected US dollar cash receipts.
The Group is also exposed to currency risk in respect of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of its overseas subsidiaries.
At present, the Group does not consider this to be a significant risk since the Group does not intend to move assets between group companies.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had outstanding currency exchange contracts to sell $71 million 2011: $54 million for sterling.
In addition, the Group utilises option instruments which have various provisions that, depending on the spot rate at maturity, give either the Group or the counterparty the option to exercise.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had outstanding currency options under which the Group may, under certain circumstances, be required to sell up to $90 million 2011: $207 million for sterling.
A common scenario with options of this type is that the spot price at expiry is such that neither the Group nor the counterparty chooses to exercise the option.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had $190 million 2011: $178 million of accounts receivable denominated in US dollars at that date, and US dollar cash and cash equivalents, and short-term deposits of $22 million 2011: $13 million.
Thus the Groups US dollar assets exceeded its currency exchange contracts and currency options at the year end.
Management assesses the volume and timing of currency exchange contracts taking into consideration both the current and expected future level of US dollar assets.
Based on the predictable nature of the Groups cash flows, the Group typically has a greater value of currency exchange contracts outstanding than US dollar assets held.
As such, after the balance sheet date, the Group has entered into additional currency exchange contracts, returning the Group to its usual position in this regard, at the date of this report.
The Group has elected not to apply hedge accounting, and all movements in the fair value of derivative foreign exchange instruments are recorded in the income statement, offsetting the foreign exchange movements on the accounts receivable, cash and cash equivalents, and short-term deposits balances being hedged.
In addition, certain customers remit royalties and licence fees in other currencies, primarily the Euro and Japanese yen.
The Group is also required to settle certain expenses in these currencies, primarily in its French, German and Japanese subsidiaries, and as the net amounts involved are not considered significant, the Group does not take out forward-settling currency exchange contracts in these currencies.
At 31 December 2012, if sterling had strengthened by 10% against foreign currencies with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 12.1 million lower 2011: 4.7 million lower, mainly as a result of the mix of financial instruments at respective year ends.
109 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 1c Financial risk management continued Interest rate risk At 31 December 2012, the Group had 523.6 million 2011: 442.2 million of interest-bearing assets.
At 31 December 2012, 91% 2011: 92% of interest-bearing assets comprising cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits, loans and receivables, and the Groups convertible loan notes are at fixed rates and are therefore exposed to fair value interest rate risk.
Floating rate cash earns interest based on relevant national LIBID or base rate equivalents and is therefore exposed to cash flow interest rate risk.
The proportion of funds held in fixed rather than floating rate deposits is determined in accordance with the policy outlined under Liquidity risk below.
Other financial assets, such as available-for-sale financial assets, are not directly exposed to interest rate risk.
Had interest rates been 1% 100 basis points lower throughout the year, interest receivable would have reduced by approximately 5.3 million 2011: 3.4 million and profit after tax by 4.0 million 2011: 2.6 million.
During 2012, the Group entered into a number of lease agreements for IT equipment which have been classified as finance leases.
Furthermore, the Group entered into a three-month fixed-rate debt facility for $160 million 99.8 million to facilitate the contribution to acquire rights to MIPS Technologies, Incs portfolio of patents see note 11.
This facility was fully settled by 31 December 2012.
The Group had no borrowings during 2011.
The Group had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate fluctuations in place at the year end since the level of financing was not considered significant, and as such no hedge accounting is applied.
The Groups cash flow is carefully monitored on a daily basis.
Excess cash, considering expected future cash flows, is placed on either short-term or long-term deposits to maximise the interest income thereon.
Daily surpluses are swept into higher-interest earning accounts overnight.
Securities price risk The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk on available-for-sale financial assets.
As there can be no guarantee that there will be a future market for securities which are generally unlisted at the time of investment or that the value of such investments will rise, the directors evaluate each investment opportunity on its merits before committing the Groups funds.
The directors review holdings in such companies on a regular basis to determine whether continued investment is in the best interests of the Group.
Funds for such ventures are limited in order that the financial effect of any potential decline of the value of investments will not be substantial in the context of the Groups financial results.
i Listed investments At 31 December 2012 and 2011, the Group had no listed investments.
ii Unlisted investments The Group had unlisted investments including convertible loan notes with a carrying value as at 31 December 2012 of 13.8 million 2011: 27.3 million.
A permanent 10% fall in the underlying value of these companies as at 31 December 2012 would therefore have reduced the Groups post-tax profit by 1.0 million 2011: 1.9 million and resulted in a nil 2011: 0.1 million reduction in other components of equity.
Credit risk Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
At 31 December 2012 and 2011, the Group had no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit, which is reassessed periodically by the directors.
Financial instrument counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the directors and such approval is limited to financial institutions with a Moodys rating of at least A2 P-1, a Fitch rating of at least A F1, or UK building societies with over 2 billion in assets, except in certain jurisdictions where the cash holding concerned is immaterial.
At 31 December 2012 and 2011, the majority of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits were deposited with major clearing banks and building societies in the UK and US in the form of money market deposits and corporate bonds for varying periods of up to two years.
110 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 1c Financial risk management continued Credit risk continued At 31 December 2012, 93% of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits were held with global financial institutions fulfilling the criteria noted above 2011: 90%.
The majority of the Groups cash currently falling outside of the counterparty criteria is held with building societies that were within criteria when the deposits were placed, with the Group having raised the criteria threshold for them during 2012.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The Group generally does not require collateral on accounts receivable, as many of its customers are large, well-established companies.
The Group has not experienced any significant losses related to individual customers or groups of customers in any particular industry or geographic area.
The Group markets and sells to a relatively small number of customers with individually large value transactions.
At 31 December 2012, one 2011: two customer accounted for over 10% of accounts receivable.
This customer for which some balances have been received since the year end and the outstanding balances are not yet due is one of the many large companies that account in total for approximately 90% of the year end accounts receivable balance, where the risk of default on monies owed is deemed negligible.
The Group performs credit checks on all customers other than those paying in advance in order to assess their creditworthiness and ability to pay its invoices as they become due.
As such, the balance of accounts receivable not owed by large companies is still deemed by the directors to be of low risk of default due to the nature of the checks performed on them, and accordingly a relatively small allowance against these receivables is in place to cover this low risk of default.
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period and the directors do not expect any significant losses from non-performance by these counterparties.
Liquidity risk The Groups policy is to maintain balances of cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits, such that highly liquid resources exceed the Groups projected cash outflows at all times.
Surplus funds are placed on fixedor floating-rate deposits depending on the prevailing economic climate at the time with reference to forward interest rates and also on the required maturity of the deposit as driven by the expected timing of the Groups cash receipts and payments over the shortto medium-term.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups shortand medium-term expected cash flows.
This is carried out at both a local and a Group level, with the local subsidiaries being funded by the Group as required.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Between Between Less than six months and one and Over six months one year two years two years m m m m At 31 December 2012: Accounts payable 5.9 Accrued and other liabilities 46.8 Finance lease liabilities 0.8 2.1 2.2 0.7 At 31 December 2011: Accounts payable 8.7 Accrued and other liabilities 45.7 1.7 0.9 The table on the next page analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
Amounts due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
111 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 1c Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk continued Between Over three months Less than three six months and but less than months one year six months m m m Foreign exchange forward contracts held-for-trading at 31 December 2012 Outflow $51.0 $8.0 $12.0 Inflow 31.9 5.0 7.5 Foreign exchange options held-for-trading at 31 December 2012 Outflow maximum $38.9 $37.3 $13.5 Inflow maximum 25.3 24.3 8.6 Foreign exchange forward contracts held-for-trading at 31 December 2011 Outflow $54.0 Inflow 34.7 Foreign exchange options held-for-trading at 31 December 2011 Outflow maximum $76.5 $69.0 $61.5 Inflow maximum 49.2 44.6 40.3 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an appropriate capital structure.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits and capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company, as disclosed on the consolidated balance sheet.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, sell assets to raise cash or take on debt.
The Groups strategy is to have a capital structure that takes into account opportunities to invest in long-term profitable growth, prevailing trading conditions and the desire to improve balance sheet efficiency over time.
The Group introduced a dividend in 2004 which has grown each year since.
Between 2005 and 2008, an ongoing share buyback programme was in place whereby 16% of the issued share capital was bought back at an average price of 1.22.
In 2012, the interim dividend was increased by 20% and the directors are proposing a 35% increase in the final dividend, reflecting the Boards long-term confidence in the business.
No share buybacks were made in the year, though the programme remains in place and will be used as and when the Board believe it is appropriate to do so.
The capital structure is continually monitored by the Group.
Fair value of currency exchange contracts The fair value of currency exchange contracts is estimated using the settlement rates.
The estimation of the fair value of the asset in respect of currency exchange contracts was 1.4 million at 31 December 2012 2011: liability of 1.5 million.
The resulting gains and losses on the movement of the fair value of currency exchange contracts is recognised in the income statement under general and administrative expenses, as shown below: 2012 2011 m m Gain in income statement 8.3 2.7 112 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 1c Financial risk management continued Valuation hierarchy The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m At 31 December 2012 Assets Fair value through the income statement: Currency exchange contracts 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 Available-for-sale: Other long-term financial assets 13.8 13.8 13.8 13.8 Total assets 1.4 13.8 15.2 Liabilities Embedded derivatives 2.5 2.5 Total liabilities 2.5 2.5 Level 1 valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.
Level 2 valued using techniques based significantly on observable market data.
Level 3 valued using information other than observable market data.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m At 31 December 2011 Assets Fair value through the income statement: Embedded derivatives 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 Available-for-sale: Other long-term financial assets 27.3 27.3 27.3 27.3 Total assets 1.2 27.3 28.5 Liabilities Currency exchange contracts 1.5 1.5 Total liabilities 1.5 1.5 Level 3 financial assets 2012 2011 m m At1 January 27.3 20.3 Additions 3.2 8.3 Revaluation recognised through other comprehensive income 0.4 0.4 Disposals 14.9 0.1 Impairment recognised through income statement 1.4 1.6 At 31 December 13.8 27.3 113 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 1d Critical accounting estimates and judgments The preparation of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards requires the directors to make critical accounting estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
These estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experiences and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill The Group tests goodwill for impairment at least annually.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units CGUs to which goodwill is allocated.
As discussed in detail in note 15, estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the CGUs and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present values of those cash flows.
The discount rate is based on an estimate of the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
The Group uses a post-tax discount rate of 10% 2011: 10% pre-tax discount rate of approximately 11% 2011: 11%.
Revenue recognition Revenue from the sale of licence agreements which are designed to meet the specific requirements of each customer is recognised on a  basis.
Use of this method requires the directors to estimate the total project resource requirement and also any losses on uncompleted contracts.
In addition, there are other areas of revenue recognition requiring estimates and judgments, the details of which can be found in the revenue recognition accounting policy on page 103.
Provisions for income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgment is required in determining the world-wide provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
Provision for impairment of trade receivables The Group assesses trade receivables for impairment which requires the directors to estimate the likelihood of payment forfeiture by customers.
Legal settlements and other contingencies Determining the amount to be accrued for legal settlement requires the directors to estimate the committed future legal and settlement fees the Group is expecting to incur, either where suits are filed against the Group for infringement of patents, or where the Group may be required to indemnify a licensee.
The directors assess the extent of any potential infringement based on legal advice and written opinions received from external counsel and then estimate the level of accrual required.
Contingent consideration for an acquisition is recognised as part of the purchase consideration if the contingent conditions are expected to be satisfied.
This requires the directors to estimate the acquirees future financial performance, typically more than one year post-acquisition.
114 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 2 Segmental reporting At 31 December 2012 the Group was organised on a world-wide basis into three main business segments: Processor Division PD, encompassing those resources that are centred around microprocessor cores, including specific functions such as graphics IP, system IP, embedded software and configurable digital signal processing DSP IP.
Physical IP Division PIPD, concerned with the building blocks necessary for translation of a circuit design into actual silicon.
System Design Division SDD, focused on the tools and models used to create and debug software and system-on-chip SoC designs.
This is based upon the Groups internal organisation and management structure and is the primary way in which the CODM is provided with financial information.
Whilst revenues are also reported into four main revenue streams namely licensing, royalties, development systems and services, the costs, operating results and balance sheets are only analysed into these three divisions.
Further, the information provided to the CODM is based on normalised profit before tax and therefore this information is provided as well as the equivalent profit stated under IFRS.
The reconciling items: intangible amortisation: acquisition-related charges: share-based payment costs including payroll taxes: disposal impairment of investments: share of results in joint venture: and Linaro-related charges are analysed below in addition to an analysis of revenues: operating costs: investment income, net of interest payable and similar charges: profit loss before tax: tax: profit loss after tax: depreciation: capital expenditure: total assets and liabilities: net assets and goodwill for each segment and the Group in total.
Business segment information Processor Physical IP System Design Division Division Division Unallocated Group m m m m m For the year ended 31 December 2012 Segmental income statement Revenues 473.9 68.3 34.7 576.9 Operating costs 243.3 82.8 40.1 2.6 368.8 Investment income, net of interest payable and similar charges 13.6 13.6 Share of results in joint venture 0.7 0.7 Profit loss before tax 230.6 14.5 5.4 10.3 221.0 Tax 60.3 60.3 Profit loss for the year 230.6 14.5 5.4 50.0 160.7 Reconciliation to normalised profit loss before tax: Intangible amortisation 2.4 0.8 3.2 Acquisition-related charges 3.1 1.7 0.8 5.6 Share-based payment costs including payroll taxes 30.0 8.6 6.8 45.4 Profit on sale of investments, net of impairment 0.6 0.6 Share of results in joint venture 0.7 0.7 Normalised profit loss before tax 266.7 3.4 1.4 11.8 276.5 Segmental balance sheet Total assets 284.6 409.2 32.5 740.5 1,466.8 Total liabilities 182.6 43.9 15.1 19.1 260.7 Net assets 102.0 365.3 17.4 721.4 1,206.1 Other segmental items Depreciation 6.7 2.5 1.6 10.8 Capital expenditure 22.4 6.3 4.5 33.2 Goodwill 138.0 367.0 14.4 519.4 Revenues USD millions 749.8 108.4 54.9 913.1 115 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting continued Processor Physical IP System Design Division Division Division Unallocated Group m m m m m For the year ended 31 December 2011 Segmental income statement Revenues 397.6 61.3 32.9 491.8 Operating costs 223.8 81.1 41.2 3.2 342.9 Investment income 8.0 8.0 Profit loss before tax 173.8 19.8 8.3 11.2 156.9 Tax 44.3 44.3 Profit loss for the year 173.8 19.8 8.3 33.1 112.6 Reconciliation to normalised profit loss before tax: Intangible amortisation 2.2 1.0 3.2 Acquisition-related charges 2.4 0.6 0.2 3.2 Share-based payment costs including payroll taxes 36.9 12.1 8.7 57.7 Disposal impairment of investments 1.7 0.1 1.8 Linaro-related charges 6.9 6.9 Normalised profit loss before tax 222.2 4.4 0.7 11.2 229.7 Segmental balance sheet Total assets 274.6 419.9 30.9 574.4 1,299.8 Total liabilities 155.3 40.1 15.0 28.2 238.6 Net assets 119.3 379.8 15.9 546.2 1,061.2 Other segmental items Depreciation 4.2 2.6 0.7 7.5 Capital expenditure 7.7 4.1 1.2 13.0 Goodwill 143.7 383.9 14.9 542.5 Revenues USD millions 634.7 97.9 52.4 785.0 There are no inter-segment revenues.
Unallocated operating costs consist of foreign exchange gains and losses.
Unallocated assets and liabilities include: cash and cash equivalents: shortand long-term deposits: available-for-sale financial assets: loans and receivables: embedded derivatives: fair value of currency exchange contracts: deferred tax balances: current tax: and VAT.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and computer software intangible assets.
During the year ended 31 December 2012 one customer within all three business segments accounted for 15% of the Groups total revenues amounting to 84.0 million 2011: one customer accounted for 11%.
The results of each segment have been prepared using accounting policies consistent with those of the Group as a whole.
116 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 2 Segmental reporting continued Geographical information The Group manages its business segments on a global basis.
The operations are based in three main geographical areas.
The UK is the home country of the parent company.
The main operations are in the following principal territories: Europe United States Asia Pacific Analysis of revenue by destination : 2012 2011 m m United States 215.9 187.7 South Korea 95.0 63.8 China 71.2 47.6 Taiwan 69.2 63.6 Japan 46.6 50.0 Netherlands 15.8 15.4 Germany 15.4 21.7 Switzerland 14.0 11.7 Rest of Europe 19.0 12.2 Rest of Asia Pacific 13.6 16.3 Rest of North America 1.2 1.8 576.9 491.8 Destination is defined as the location of the Groups customers operations.
The Groups revenue within the home country of the parent company amounted to 5.5 million and 1.5 million for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 respectively.
The Groups exports from the UK were 560.3 million and 480.1 million for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 respectively.
Analysis of revenue by origin: 2012 2011 m m Europe 567.8 483.5 United States 9.1 8.2 Asia Pacific 0.1 576.9 491.8 Includes the UK which had total revenues of 565.8 million in 2012 2011: 481.6 million.
Analysis of revenue by revenue stream: 2012 2011 m m Royalties 299.8 252.4 Licensing 214.0 180.5 Development systems 34.7 32.9 Services 28.4 26.0 576.9 491.8 117 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting continued Geographical information continued Analysis of non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets : 2012 2011 m m Europe 193.8 122.9 United States 5.2 6.9 Asia Pacific 3.1 3.0 202.1 132.8 Includes the UK which had non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets of 192.8 million in 2012 2011: 122.4 million, of which long-term deposits accounted for 141.3 million 2011: 83.1 million.
3 Key management compensation and directors emoluments Key management compensation The directors are of the opinion that the key management of the Group comprises the executive and non-executive directors of ARM Holdings plc together with the Executive Committee comprising all directors of ARM Limited and certain senior management.
These persons have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly.
At 31 December 2012, key management comprised 19 people 2011: 22.
On 1 January 2013 three new members of the Executive Committee were appointed bringing the total number to 22.
The aggregate amounts of key management compensation are set out below: 2012 2011 m m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 8.9 9.9 Share-based payments 3.4 3.5 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.4 12.5 13.8 Directors emoluments The aggregate emoluments of the directors of the Company are set out below: 2012 2011 m m Aggregate emoluments in respect of qualifying services 5.0 5.5 Aggregate Group pension contributions to money purchase schemes 0.1 0.2 Aggregate gains on exercise of share options 1.8 1.1 Aggregate amounts receivable under the Long Term Incentive Plan 21.2 24.2 28.1 31.0 Detailed disclosures of directors emoluments are shown on page 90.
Details of directors interests in share options and awards are shown on pages 85 to 89 which form part of the financial statements.
118 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 4 Employee information The average monthly number of persons, including executive directors, employed by the Group during the year was: 2012 2011 Number Number By segment Processor Division 1,398 1,225 Physical IP Division 557 488 System Design Division 306 283 2,261 1,996 2012 2011 Number Number By activity Research and development 1,581 1,366 Sales and marketing 367 349 General and administrative 313 281 2,261 1,996 2012 2011 m m Staff costs for the above persons Wages and salaries 161.5 142.2 Medical care costs 5.0 4.4 Share-based payments note 23 37.1 40.5 Social security costs 30.2 26.2 Provision for social security costs on share awards 6.1 4.9 Other pension costs 8.0 6.8 235.7 225.0 119 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Profit before tax: analysis of expenses by nature The following items have been charged credited to the income statement in arriving at profit before tax: 2012 2011 m m Staff costs, including share-based payments note 4 235.7 225.0 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 3.2 2.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets note 14 9.5 7.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment under finance leases note 14 1.3 Amortisation of other intangible assets note 16 Cost of revenues 0.3 0.3 Research and development expenses 2.3 2.4 Sales and marketing expenses 0.9 0.8 General and administrative expenses 3.1 2.2 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets note 13 1.4 1.6 Profit loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 0.8 0.1 Other operating lease rentals payable Plant and machinery 24.0 24.9 Property 7.6 6.8 Accounts receivables impairment including movement in provision 0.4 Fair value movement on embedded derivatives 3.7 1.2 Other foreign exchange gains 1.9 4.2 Services provided by the Groups auditor and its associates During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor and its associates: 2012 2011 m m Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.3 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Groups subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 Audit-related assurance services services pursuant to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 0.3 0.2 Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 Statutory audit, financial reporting and other related services 0.9 0.8 Tax advisory services 0.2 0.1 Tax compliance services 0.1 0.1 All other non-audit services 0.1 0.1 1.3 1.1 All other non-audit services consist predominantly of fees for the performance of royalty audits.
120 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 6 Tax Analysis of charge in the year: 2012 2011 m m Current tax: Current tax on profits for the year 47.5 45.7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.5 0.1 Total current tax 47.0 45.6 Deferred tax 13.3 1.3 Income tax expense 60.3 44.3 Analysis of tax on items charged to equity: 2012 2011 m m Deferred tax charge credit on outstanding share options and awards 9.7 23.2 Current tax benefit on share options and awards 27.4 22.2 Deferred tax credit charge on available-for-sale financial assets 0.1 0.1 The tax charge for the year was different from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, as explained below: 2012 2011 m m Profit before tax 221.0 156.9 Profit before tax at the corporation tax rate of 24.5% 2011: 26.5% 54.2 41.6 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.5 0.1 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 5.0 2.9 Research and development tax credits 5.5 10.2 Permanent differences other 2.4 1.1 Permanent differences derecognition of US deferred tax assets 3.4 Foreign withholding tax 1.0 10.4 Amortisation of other intangible assets 0.1 Impact of share-based payments 0.3 0.9 Total taxation 60.3 44.3 The provisions extending the US federal R&D tax credits into 2012 were signed on 2 January 2013.
However, since the provisions were not enacted until after the year end, the benefit of the 2012 R&D tax credits will be accounted for in 2013.
Includes expenditure disallowable for tax purposes and remeasurement of deferred tax assets due to reduction in UK and US tax rates.
On 6 November 2012, California enacted legislation which changed the way in which US based companies identify the amount of income and profit which is subject to California state tax.
The impact of this change has been to reduce the Group's expected future California tax and a partial valuation allowance has been made against the California R&D tax credits deferred tax asset, as they are now unlikely to be fully utilised.
121 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 6 Tax continued Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate relevant to each tax jurisdiction.
The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 105.9 78.3 Income statement charge credit 13.3 1.3 Adjustment in respect of share-based payments 9.7 23.2 Prior year movement to from current tax assets 11.6 2.6 Exchange differences 1.3 0.6 Revaluation of available-for-sale financial asset 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 70.1 105.9 Deferred tax assets have been partially recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is not probable that the unrecognised portion of these assets will be recovered.
The amount of deferred tax assets unrecognised at 31 December 2012 was 4.4 million 2011: 1.2 million.
The unrecognised deferred tax asset relates to historic losses of an overseas subsidiary that may remain unutilised due to restrictions imposed by local tax legislation and California R&D tax credits referred to above.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of a further 35.0 million 2011: 65.0 million of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the differences and either it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future or no tax is payable on the reversal.
The March 2012 Budget included changes to the main rates of tax for UK companies.
The main rate of corporation tax decreased from 26% to 24% from 1 April 2012.
The Budget also announced the reduction in the main rate of corporation tax from 24% to 23% from 1 April 2013.
This was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012.
These changes have not had a material impact on the deferred tax balances as at 31 December 2012.
The introduction of the new patent box regime is likely to have a significant impact on the Group from a UK tax perspective.
The new regime looks to tax all relevant profits attributable to patented technology at a reduced rate of 10%.
The rules are to be phased in over 5 years from 1 April 2013 a company will be entitled to only 60% of the deduction in financial year 2013 14, rising to 100% by 2017 18.
All deferred tax balances at 31 December 2012 are calculated using statutory corporation tax rates.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
122 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 6 Tax continued Deferred tax assets Amounts Temporary Tax losses relating to differences and R&D tax share-based relating to credits carried Non-deductible payments fixed assets forward reserves Other Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2012 59.5 4.6 30.9 12.7 107.7 Prior year movement to current tax assets 11.6 11.6 Income statement charge credit 0.1 2.0 9.1 3.2 0.6 13.8 Movement on deferred tax arising on outstanding share options and awards 15.9 15.9 Unutilised current year share option deductions 6.2 6.2 Exchange differences 1.3 1.3 At 31 December 2012 prior to offsetting 43.5 2.6 15.1 9.5 0.6 71.3 Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities 1.2 At 31 December 2012 after offsetting 70.1 At 1 January 2011 45.2 5.9 19.9 9.6 80.6 Prior year movement from current tax assets 2.6 2.6 Income statement credit charge 4.3 1.0 4.5 1.9 0.7 Movement on deferred tax arising on outstanding share options and awards 9.1 9.1 Unutilised current year share option deductions 14.1 14.1 Reclassification 0.9 0.3 1.8 1.2 Exchange differences 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2011 prior to offsetting 59.5 4.6 30.9 12.7 107.7 Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities 1.8 At 31 December 2011 after offsetting 105.9 Deferred tax liabilities Temporary difference Amounts relating to on available-for-sale intangible assets financial assets arising on acquisition Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2012 1.3 0.1 0.4 1.8 Movement in respect of amortisation of intangible assets 0.2 0.2 Movement through reserves 0.1 0.1 Other short-term differences 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2012 prior to offsetting 1.1 0.1 1.2 Offsetting of deferred tax assets 1.2 At 31 December 2012 after offsetting At 1 January 2011 1.5 0.8 2.3 Movement in respect of amortisation of intangible assets 0.2 0.2 Movement through reserves 0.1 0.1 Other short-term differences 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2011 prior to offsetting 1.3 0.1 0.4 1.8 Offsetting of deferred tax assets 1.8 At 31 December 2011 after offsetting The deferred tax liability due after more than one year prior to offsetting is 0.8 million 2011: 1.0 million.
123 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 7 Dividends 2012 2011 m m Final 2010 paid at 1.74 pence per share 23.4 Interim 2011 paid at 1.39 pence per share 18.8 Final 2011 paid at 2.09 pence per share 28.8 Interim 2012 paid at 1.67 pence per share 23.0 51.8 42.2 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2012 of 2.83 pence per share which will absorb an estimated 40 million of shareholders funds.
Subject to approval at the 2013 AGM, it will be paid on 17 May 2013 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 19 April 2013.
8 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury stock which are treated as cancelled.
The Company had two categories of dilutive potential ordinary shares during the year: those being share options granted to employees and directors where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and the awards made under the Companys Restricted Stock Unit RSU, Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DAB and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP schemes.
For 2012 and 2011, no shares that were allocated for awards under the LTIP were included in the diluted EPS calculation as the performance criteria could not be measured until the conclusion of the performance period.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are shown on the face of the consolidated income statement.
9 Cash and cash equivalents 2012 2011 m m Cash at bank and in hand 46.3 26.8 The carrying amount approximates to fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments, being no greater than three months.
10 Accounts receivable 2012 2011 m m Trade debtors including receivables from related parties see note 27 119.1 116.4 Less: Provision for impairment of trade debtors 2.4 1.7 Trade debtors, net 116.7 114.7 Amounts recoverable on contracts 7.8 4.9 Current accounts receivable 124.5 119.6 Movements in the Groups provision for impairment of trade debtors are as follows: 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 1.7 2.1 Charge to income statement 0.4 Reclassification utilised 0.4 0.4 Foreign exchange 0.1 At 31 December 2.4 1.7 See also note 19 for further disclosure regarding the credit quality of the Groups gross trade debtors.
124 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 11 Prepaid expenses and other assets 2012 2011 m m Other receivables 10.4 9.3 Prepayments and accrued income 125.2 21.4 Current prepaid expenses and other assets 135.6 30.7 Plus: non-current prepayments and accrued income 2.0 2.3 Total prepaid expenses and other assets 137.6 33.0 Included within prepayments and accrued income is a prepayment amounting to 103.7 million which is the Groups contribution to a consortium to acquire rights to MIPS Technologies, Incs portfolio of patents.
This transaction received MIPS shareholder approval on 6 February 2013.
12 Inventories 2012 2011 m m Finished goods 2.5 2.7 Less: Provision for obsolescence of inventories 0.2 0.2 2.3 2.5 13 Available-for-sale financial assets 2012 2011 m m Long-term investments Net book value At 1 January 27.3 20.3 Additions including capitalised interest in 2012 of 0.2 million 3.2 8.3 Revaluation recognised through other comprehensive income 0.4 0.4 Disposals 14.9 0.1 Impairment recognised through income statement general and administrative expenses 1.4 1.6 At 31 December 13.8 27.3 125 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Available-for-sale financial assets continued Long-term investments Those unlisted companies in which the Group has invested are generally early-stage development enterprises, which are generating value for shareholders through research and development activities, and most do not currently report profits.
The fair value of these investments is considered to approximate to cost or is determined using independent valuation information where available.
The Groups investments include the following companies: Amantys Limited Ambiq Micro Inc. Arteris Holdings Inc. Calxeda Inc.
Carbon Design Systems Inc. Cyclos Semiconductor Inc. eSol Co. Ltd Ideaworks 3D Limited Shanghai Walden Venture Capital Enterprise Thunder Software Technology Co. Ltd Triad Semiconductor Inc During the year the Group disposed of its investments in Cognovo Limited and Nethra Imaging Inc. Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: 2012 2011 m m Unlisted equity securities UK 3.7 1.7 Unlisted equity securities China 2.0 2.0 Unlisted equity securities Japan 0.9 0.9 Unlisted equity securities US 5.9 8.6 Convertible loan notes UK 1.3 13.3 Convertible loan notes US 0.8 Total non-current financial assets 13.8 27.3 Available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: 2012 2011 m m Sterling 12.5 26.5 US dollars 1.3 0.8 Total financial assets 13.8 27.3 126 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 14 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, fittings Assets in the Freehold Leasehold Computer and motor course of buildings improvements equipment vehicles construction Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2012 0.2 18.0 32.5 5.7 0.9 57.3 Additions 1.7 14.0 1.1 12.4 29.2 Transfers 4.9 4.9 9.8 Disposals 1.1 1.8 0.2 3.1 Exchange differences 0.4 0.8 0.2 1.4 At 31 December 2012 0.2 23.1 48.8 6.4 3.5 82.0 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2012 0.1 13.5 21.8 3.8 39.2 Charge for the year 1.8 8.1 0.9 10.8 Disposals 1.1 1.8 0.2 3.1 Exchange differences 0.3 0.6 0.1 1.0 At 31 December 2012 0.1 13.9 27.5 4.4 45.9 Net book value At 31 December 2012 0.1 9.2 21.3 2.0 3.5 36.1 Fixtures, fittings Assets in the Freehold Leasehold Computer and motor course of buildings improvements equipment vehicles construction Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2011 0.2 17.7 25.9 5.3 49.1 Additions 0.6 10.0 0.7 0.9 12.2 Disposals 0.2 2.7 0.2 3.1 Exchange differences 0.1 0.7 0.1 0.9 At 31 December 2011 0.2 18.0 32.5 5.7 0.9 57.3 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2011 0.1 12.2 19.7 3.3 35.3 Charge for the year 1.5 5.2 0.8 7.5 Disposals 0.1 2.7 0.2 3.0 Exchange differences 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.6 At 31 December 2011 0.1 13.5 21.8 3.8 39.2 Net book value At 31 December 2011 0.1 4.5 10.7 1.9 0.9 18.1 Net book value at 1 January 2011 0.1 5.5 6.2 2.0 13.8 Included within computer equipment are assets with net book value of 7.7 million 2011: nil held under finance leases.
127 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Goodwill m At 1 January 2011 532.3 Exchange differences 3.7 Acquisition - Obsidian 3.2 Acquisition - Prolific 3.3 At 31 December 2011 542.5 Exchange differences 23.1 At 31 December 2012 519.4 During the fourth quarter of 2012, the Group tested its balance of goodwill for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of assets.
No impairment charge was recorded as a result of this annual impairment test.
Goodwill is allocated to the Groups CGUs according to business segment.
The carrying amounts of goodwill by CGU at 31 December 2012 are summarised below: Processor Physical IP System Design Division Division Division Group m m m m Goodwill relating to Artisan 121.3 363.9 485.2 Goodwill relating to Falanx 9.4 9.4 Goodwill relating to Axys 7.5 7.5 Goodwill relating to KEG and KSI 6.9 6.9 Goodwill relating to Prolific 3.1 3.1 Goodwill relating to Obsidian 3.1 3.1 Goodwill relating to Logipard 2.1 2.1 Goodwill relating to other acquisitions 2.1 2.1 Goodwill at 31 December 2012 138.0 367.0 14.4 519.4 Goodwill at 31 December 2011 143.7 383.9 14.9 542.5 The recoverable amount for each CGU has been measured based on a value-in-use calculation.
Allocation of goodwill relating to Artisan The directors believed that, in addition to forming the basis of the Physical IP Division PIPD, the Groups acquisition of Artisan in 2004 would provide a benefit to the Processor Division PD for the following reasons: The development of faster and more power-efficient microprocessors as a result of collaboration between PD and PIPD engineering teams.
This is expected to generate more PD licensing deals at higher values: and The potential for PD to win more microprocessor licensing business as a result of ARM being able to offer both processor and physical IP in-house.
The goodwill relating to Artisan was allocated between the two divisions accordingly.
Processor Division PD The Processor Division encompasses those resources that are centred around microprocessor cores, including specific functions such as graphics IP, system IP, embedded software IP and configurable DSP IP.
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were: Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a ten-year forecast period with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2022 of 3% per annum.
Given the long-term nature of the ARM licensing and royalty business model, it is considered appropriate to use a ten-year forecast period to assess the expected future cash flows to be generated from the assets under review.
Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management, taking into account typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARMs historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic conditions.
128 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 15 Goodwill continued Operating margins Operating margins have been assumed to grow steadily over the period of the calculation.
Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.
The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to PD is appropriate and that the assumptions used in estimating its fair value are appropriate.
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation could change, the directors believe that no reasonably foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value.
Physical IP Division PIPD The Physical IP Division is concerned with the building blocks necessary for translation of a circuit design into actual silicon.
This timescale is consistent with ARMs experience in developing the processor licensing and royalty model.
ARM has signed around 960 processor licences with more than 320 customers over the last 20 years with less than half of these paying royalties thus far.
As royalty revenues are a function of cumulative licensing, royalty growth gathers momentum as the licensing base grows ARM processor royalties have increased from $38 million in 2002 to $418 million in 2012.
Since the acquisition of Artisan at the end of 2004, PIPD has accelerated the development of leading-edge physical IP technology.
As semiconductor process geometries shrink, PIPD is expected to have more licensing opportunities across a broader range of foundries and other semiconductor companies.
US dollar licence revenues increased by 6% year-on-year in 2012 and royalty revenues increased by 15%.
The increase in revenues was due mainly to further success in signing licences for leading edge physical IP technology.
As a result, backlog increased by 50% in 2012 compared with the beginning of the year.
This uplift in licensing activity is expected to translate into growth in royalty revenues in future years.
The directors believe that the investment in the physical IP technology portfolio in recent years will not only generate growth in physical IP revenue in future years, but also contribute significantly to the success of PD due to the synergistic benefits of the combined technologies.
An estimate of the increased benefits to PD arising as a result of the combination with physical IP products is taken in to account in calculating the value-in-use for PIPD.
Demand for Processor Optimisation Packs POPs continued to be strong in 2012 with a number of partners taking licences alongside PD processors.
POPs enable an enhanced and deterministic outcome for licensees when implementing ARM processors.
Operating margins Operating margins are assumed to increase gradually over time to in excess of 20% by the end of the forecast period.
In 2012, PIPD continued to make progress and recorded a smaller loss on a normalised basis than for the previous year.
This was mostly as a result of increased revenues offset by continued investment in the development of leading-edge technology.
Margins are expected to improve significantly in future years as licence revenues from leading-edge products gather pace.
Growth in high margin royalty revenues will further improve profitability.
Costs are expected to grow relatively slowly in real terms.
The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to PIPD and the assumptions used in estimating its fair value are appropriate.
The overall assessment is most sensitive to changes in the assumed revenues and benefits provided to the Processor Division.
The directors have considered the impact of a number of scenarios on the overall valuation of the PIPD business, including a considerable reduction in the benefits assumed to be provided to the Processor Division.
The results of this sensitivity analysis showed that applying a range of reasonable variations to the key assumptions would not change the conclusion that no impairment in the carrying value of the goodwill is required at 31 December 2012.
129 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Goodwill continued System Design Division SDD The System Design Division develops and sells the tools and models used to create and debug software and system-on-chip SoC designs.
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were: Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a five-year forecast period with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2017 of 3% per annum.
It is considered appropriate to use a five-year forecast period to properly reflect the weighted average period over which the benefits of the acquisitions of Axys, KEG and KSI are expected to accrue.
Operating margins Operating margins are assumed to grow gradually during the period.
The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to SDD and the assumptions used in estimating its fair value are appropriate.
16 Other intangible assets Existing In-process agreements Computer Patents and research and Developed and customer Core Trademarks and Order software licences development technology relationships technology tradenames backlog Total m m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2012 10.4 25.4 6.2 41.0 55.5 17.6 4.7 2.1 162.9 Additions 4.0 1.4 5.4 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Exchange differences 0.1 0.3 1.4 2.2 0.8 0.2 0.1 5.1 At 31 December 2012 14.1 26.8 5.9 39.6 53.3 16.8 4.5 2.0 163.0 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2012 9.0 20.8 6.2 37.7 54.6 15.3 4.7 2.1 150.4 Charge for the year 1.6 2.3 1.4 0.4 0.9 6.6 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Exchange differences 0.1 0.3 1.4 2.2 0.7 0.2 0.1 5.0 At 31 December 2012 10.3 23.1 5.9 37.7 52.8 15.5 4.5 2.0 151.8 Net book value At 31 December 2012 3.8 3.7 1.9 0.5 1.3 11.2 130 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 16 Other intangible assets continued Existing In-process agreements Computer Patents and research and Developed and customer Core Trademarks and Order software licences development technology relationships technology tradenames backlog Total m m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2011 9.8 25.4 6.2 38.8 55.1 14.8 4.6 2.0 156.7 Additions 0.8 0.8 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2.3 0.2 2.6 5.1 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.4 At 31 December 2011 10.4 25.4 6.2 41.0 55.5 17.6 4.7 2.1 162.9 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2011 8.4 18.7 6.2 35.9 53.9 14.8 4.6 2.0 144.5 Charge for the year 0.8 2.1 1.9 0.5 0.4 5.7 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 At 31 December 2011 9.0 20.8 6.2 37.7 54.6 15.3 4.7 2.1 150.4 Net book value At 31 December 2011 1.4 4.6 3.3 0.9 2.3 12.5 Net book value at 1 January 2011 1.4 6.7 2.9 1.2 12.2 17 Accrued and other liabilities 2012 2011 m m Accruals: Provision for payroll taxes on share awards 16.5 22.6 Employee bonus and sales commissions 23.8 23.7 Other accruals 31.0 31.8 Total accruals 71.3 78.1 Other taxation and social security 3.4 2.8 Other payables 4.6 4.0 79.3 84.9 18 Finance lease liabilities 2012 2011 m m Gross finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments: Within one year 3.1 In the second to fifth years inclusive 3.0 Less: future finance charges 0.3 Present value of lease obligations 5.8 Amounts due for settlement within 12 months 2.9 Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 2.9 Present value of lease obligations 5.8 The Group has entered into a three and a four year finance lease arrangement in respect of certain IT equipment.
131 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Financial instruments a Financial instruments by category The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: Financial assets Assets at fair value through Loans and the income Availablereceivables statement for-sale Total m m m m At 31 December 2012 Cash and cash equivalents 46.3 46.3 Short-term deposits 340.0 340.0 Currency exchange contracts 1.4 1.4 Accounts receivable gross of impairment provision 126.9 126.9 Total current financial assets 513.2 1.4 514.6 Available-for-sale financial assets unlisted 13.8 13.8 Long-term deposits 141.3 141.3 Loans and receivables 2.1 2.1 Total non-current financial assets 143.4 13.8 157.2 Total financial assets 656.6 1.4 13.8 671.8 At 31 December 2011 Cash and cash equivalents 26.8 26.8 Short-term deposits 319.1 319.1 Embedded derivatives 1.2 1.2 Accounts receivable gross of impairment provision 121.3 121.3 Total current financial assets 467.2 1.2 468.4 Available-for-sale financial assets unlisted 27.3 27.3 Long-term deposits 83.1 83.1 Loans and receivables 2.0 2.0 Total non-current financial assets 85.1 27.3 112.4 Total financial assets 552.3 1.2 27.3 580.8 132 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 19 Financial instruments continued a Financial instruments by category continued Financial liabilities 2012 2011 m m Liabilities at amortised cost at 31 December: Accounts payable 5.9 8.7 Accrued and other liabilities 46.8 48.3 Finance lease liabilities 5.8 58.5 57.0 Liabilities at fair value through the income statement at 31 December: Embedded derivatives 2.5 Currency exchange contracts 1.5 Total financial liabilities 61.0 58.5 Non-financial liabilities are excluded from the accrued and other liabilities balance, as this analysis is required only for financial instruments.
Loans and receivables During 2010 the Group invested 2.5 million in an interest-free charitable bond with Future Business.
This was recognised in loans and receivables at its initial fair value of 1.9 million, measured using the effective interest method, which resulted in a charge of 0.6 million being recognised as interest payable and similar charges during 2010.
The carrying value of this investment amounted to 2.1 million at 31 December 2012 2011: 2.0 million, with 0.1 million being recognised as interest receivable during 2012 2011: 0.1 million.
Short-term deposits The effective interest rate on short-term deposits outstanding at the year end was 2.70% 2011: 2.44% and these deposits have an average maturity of 190 days 2011: 197 days.
Long-term deposits The effective interest rate on long-term deposits outstanding at the year end was 3.32% 2011: 3.18% and these deposits have an average maturity of 489 days 2011: 532 days.
b Credit quality of financial assets Trade debtors On a quarterly basis, all trade debtors more than three months overdue are considered for impairment on a line-by-line basis.
Either a provision is made or the lack thereof is justified, with review by senior members of the Groups finance team.
2012 2011 m m Trade debtors gross of impairment provision : Not yet due 80.1 89.5 Under 90 days overdue 27.3 21.1 Over 90 days overdue but not provided for 9.3 4.1 Fully provided for 2.4 1.7 Total 119.1 116.4 As shown above, at 31 December 2012 trade debtors less than 90 days overdue amounted to 27.3 million.
Of those outstanding at 31 December 2012, 13.2 million had been collected by 25 February 2013 and 10.9 million were owed by large, established customers.
Similarly, debtors more than 90 days overdue and not provided for amounted to 9.3 million of which 3.7 million had been collected by 25 February 2013 and 1.3 million was owed by large, established customers.
For the remainder, discussions regarding repayment are ongoing and repayment schedules have been agreed with the customers concerned.
These will be monitored on a quarterly basis in accordance with the control outlined above.
No further analysis has been provided here on the quality of these debts as they are not felt to pose a material threat to the Groups future results.
As shown above, at 31 December 2012, trade debtors fully provided for amounted to 2.4 million 2011: 1.7 million.
Of those provided for at 31 December 2012, 0.6 million relates to trade debtors that are up to six months overdue 2011: 0.3 million and 1.8 million relates to trade debtors that are over six months overdue 2011: 1.4 million.
133 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Financial instruments continued b Credit quality of financial assets continued Highly liquid financial assets Financial instrument counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the directors and such approval is limited to financial institutions with a Moodys rating of at least A2 P-1, a Fitch rating of at least A F1, or UK building societies with over 2 billion in assets, except in certain jurisdictions where the cash holding concerned is immaterial.
At 31 December 2012, 93% 2011: 90% of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits were deposited with major clearing banks and building societies fulfilling these criteria.
20 Share capital 2012 2011 m m Authorised 2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each 2011: 2,200,000,000 1.1 1.1 2012 2011 Number of Number of shares Value shares Value m m m m Issued and fully paid At 1 January 1,351.3 0.7 1,344.1 0.7 Allotted under employee incentive schemes 29.5 7.2 At 31 December 1,380.8 0.7 1,351.3 0.7 During 2012, the aggregate consideration received on issue of new share capital allotted under employee incentive schemes was 5.6 million 2011: 6.6 million.
21 Own shares held Treasury stock m At 1 January 2011 22.1 Issuance of shares 22.1 At 31 December 2011 No shares were repurchased during 2012 and 2011.
There were no shares held as treasury stock at 31 December 2012 or 31 December 2011.
22 Acquisitions There were no acquisitions in 2012, but the following acquisitions were made in 2011: Obsidian Software Inc On 15 June 2011, the Group purchased the entire share capital of Obsidian Software Inc. for $5.6 million in cash, plus a further $9.5 million payable as an earn-out to the shareholders subject to them remaining in employment with ARM for up to three years and meeting certain performance criteria.
The earn-out is being expensed in the income statement, within research and development expenses, as the services are provided.
During 2012, the Group made a payment of 2.2 million in respect of these time-based and performance bonuses due under the acquisition agreement.
This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition.
Obsidian, a company based in Austin Texas, was a market leader in verification and validation products and services used in the design of increasingly complex processors.
The companys RAVEN software has been used by many of the worlds leading semiconductor companies.
As system-on-chip SoC and processors grow in complexity there is an increasing need to develop more sophisticated verification strategies.
This acquisition augments ARM's drive in matching its verification strategies with the rate of change in its high performance, complex SoC IP components.
For these reasons, combined with the ability to hire the entire workforce of Obsidian including the founders and management team, the Group paid a premium for the company giving rise to goodwill.
All intangible assets were recognised at their fair values, with the residual excess over net assets being recognised as goodwill.
All of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
134 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 22 Acquisitions continued The following table summarises the consideration and fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as at 15 June 2011.
There have been no changes to fair values during 2012. m $m Accounts receivable 0.5 0.8 Other current assets 0.1 0.1 Property, plant and equipment 0.1 Intangible assets 2.7 4.4 Deferred revenue 0.4 0.6 Accrued and other liabilities 2.6 4.3 Net assets acquired 0.3 0.5 Goodwill 3.2 5.1 Consideration 3.5 5.6 The consideration was all paid in cash.
All transaction expenses incurred by the Group have been charged to the income statement within general and administrative expenses.
Prolific Inc On 31 October 2011, the Group purchased the entire share capital of Prolific Inc. for $7.7 million in cash, plus a further $8.5 million payable as an earnout to the shareholders subject to them remaining in employment with ARM for up to five years and meeting certain performance criteria.
During 2012, the Group made payments of 0.8 million in respect of these time-based and performance bonuses due under the acquisition agreement.
Prolific, a company based in Newark California, develops leading-edge IC design optimisation software tools that significantly reduce development time and improve the performance of cell-based designs.
The increasing complexity of 20nm and below process technologies is driving the need for automated layout optimisation solutions.
This acquisition augments ARM's strategy to provide innovative physical IP products that will enable the ARM partnership to continue to lead in the implementation of highly integrated, low-power SoC solutions.
For these reasons, combined with the ability to hire the entire engineering workforce of Prolific, including the founders and the management team, the Group paid a premium for the company giving rise to goodwill.
The following table summarises the consideration and fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as at 31 October 2011.
There have been no changes to fair values during 2012. m $m Intangible assets 2.4 3.7 Deferred revenue 0.2 0.3 Accrued and other liabilities 0.5 0.8 Net assets acquired 1.7 2.6 Goodwill 3.3 5.1 Consideration 5.0 7.7 The consideration was all paid in cash.
Other During 2011, the Group made a payment of 0.5 million in respect of final consideration for the acquisition of Keil Elektronik GmbH.
This payment was in respect of a previously accrued liability and therefore had no impact on the income statement.
135 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 23 Share-based payments The Group has several share schemes, whereby shares in the Company can be granted to employees and directors.
The different schemes are described below, but all options are granted with a fixed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares under option at the date of grant, except for those options within the SAYE and ESPP schemes as detailed below.
Furthermore, from 2006, the Company has issued Restricted Stock Units RSUs to employees, which are actual share awards on vesting rather than options to buy shares at a fixed exercise price.
Whilst the Company reserves the right to award options to employees going forward, the majority of awards to employees will be in RSUs.
Under the UK Inland Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan the Executive Scheme, the Company may grant options to employees meeting certain eligibility requirements.
Options under the Executive Scheme are exercisable between three and ten years after their issue, after which time the options expire.
Under the Companys Unapproved Scheme the Unapproved Scheme, for which it has not sought approval from the UK tax authorities, options are exercisable one to seven years after their issue, after which time the options expire.
There is a further scheme for our French employees the French Scheme.
In the French Scheme, options are exercisable between four and seven years after their issue.
Upon the acquisition of Artisan in 2004, the Company assumed the share schemes of Artisan existing at acquisition.
The schemes remained substantially the same as prior to the acquisition, other than the options became options to purchase shares in ARM Holdings plc instead of Artisan Components Inc.
The number and value of options were amended in line with the conversion ratio as detailed in the merger agreement.
The only remaining scheme from those assumed is the 2003 Plan.
Under each plan, there are multiple vesting templates and vesting periods.
The majority of the options were already vested upon acquisition, and the most common template was 25% vesting after one year, and then 6.25% vesting each quarter thereafter, until 100% vest after four years.
Some options vest on a monthly basis, and some vest over five years.
All options lapse ten years from the date of grant.
The Company also offers savings-related share option schemes SAYE for employees and executive directors of the Group.
The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee.
The period of savings is three or five years.
The option price for grants is set at 80% of the market share price prior to the announcement of the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the savings have been completed.
The Company also operates a savings-related option scheme for employees in the US and India, namely the Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP.
The period of savings is six months, with the option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of the scheme.
The main RSU awards to employees in all jurisdictions other than France vest 25% on each anniversary over four years.
RSU awards to our French employees vest 50% after two years, and then a further 25% after three and four years.
Additionally, the Company operates a Deferred Annual Bonus plan DAB.
Under the DAB, which is for directors and selected senior management within the Group, participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus into shares on a compulsory basis.
These shares will be deferred for three years, and then a matching award will be made depending on the achievement of an EPS performance condition over that time.
The Company also operates the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, also for directors and selected senior management, whereby share awards are made and vest depending on the Companys TSR performance compared to two comparator groups over the three year performance period.
As disclosed in note 4, staff expenses arising from these share-based compensation schemes of 37.1 million 2011: 40.5 million were charged to the income statement in the year.
This is in line with the Groups policies for recognition and measurement of the costs associated with these remuneration schemes as outlined in note 1.
136 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 23 Share-based payments continued The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, except for the ESPP whose fair value is the intrinsic value of the award at the date of vest.
The following assumptions for each option grant during 2012 and 2011 were as follows: Grant date 16 Feb 2012 23 Jun 2012 16 Aug 2012 16 Feb 2011 23 Jun 2011 16 Aug 2011 Scheme ESPP SAYE ESPP ESPP SAYE ESPP Share price at grant date 5.905 5.06 5.74 6.225 5.68 5.26 Exercise price 4.42 3.9616 4.876 2.62 4.464 4.471 Number of employees 373 490 372 294 423 319 Shares under option 333,464 720,922 306,497 451,423 552,903 279,806 Vesting period years 3-5 3-5 Expected volatility 38%-43% 42%-43% Expected life years 3-5 3-5 Risk free rate 0.5% 0.5% Dividend yield 0.69% 0.51% Fair value per option 1.485 1.728-2.175 0.864 3.605 2.13-2.423 0.789 The fair value of RSUs, LTIP and DAB awards granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
As all are share awards with no exercise price, all awards have been deemed to have an exercise price of 0.0000001 in the Black-Scholes model.
The expected life is the expected period to exercise.
A reconciliation of option and share award movements over the year to 31 December 2012 is shown below.
Share awards do not have an exercise price and therefore the reconciliation below shows only the number of awards, with no corresponding weighted average exercise prices.
2012 2011 Weighted average RSUs LTIP DAB Weighted average RSUs LTIP DAB Options Number exercise price Number Options Number exercise price Number Outstanding at 1 January 6,581,438 1.221 35,215,06213,452,860 0.899 42,469,526 Granted 1,360,883 4.280 14,448,979 1,284,132 3.815 14,696,383 Forfeited 234,196 3.570 914,068 171,095 1.113 831,400 Lapsed 10,589 0.910 219,847 1.186 Exercised 3,958,614 1.404 25,494,139 7,764,612 1.096 21,119,447 Outstanding at 31 December 3,738,922 1.994 23,255,834 6,581,438 1.221 35,215,062 Exercisable at 31 December 985,557 0.685 3,020,599 0.681 138 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 23 Share-based payments continued The weighted average share price at the date of exercise or vest of the above share options and awards was 5.72 2011: 5.90.
The following options over ordinary shares were in existence at 31 December: 2012 Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average remaining life remaining life Number exercise price Expected Contractual outstanding Years Years Exercise price Outstanding options: 0.47 0.854 1,514,873 0.72 0.87 1.37 1.005 1.055 46,114 1.04 1.03 2.05 1.25 32,813 1.25 0.54 1.08 1.325 4.464 2,145,122 2.93 1.77 1.97 Total 3,738,922 1.99 1.38 1.72 Outstanding RSU LTIP DAB awards: 0.00 RSUs 16,750,069 0.93 0.93 0.00 LTIP 4,189,314 0.82 0.82 0.00 DAB 2,316,451 1.06 1.06 Total 23,255,834 0.92 0.92 2011 Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average remaining life remaining life Number exercise price Expected Contractual outstanding Years Years Exercise price Outstanding options: 0.27 0.4375 129,632 0.35 0.44 0.88 0.47 0.854 4,020,157 0.69 1.16 1.89 1.005 1.055 561,523 1.05 0.27 0.53 1.104 1.25 84,308 1.18 1.12 1.49 1.325 4.464 1,785,818 2.52 1.87 2.23 Total 6,581,438 1.22 1.26 1.84 Outstanding RSU LTIP DAB awards: 0.00 RSUs 23,735,397 1.09 1.09 0.00 LTIP 8,327,095 0.62 0.62 0.00 DAB 3,152,570 0.83 0.83 Total 35,215,062 0.95 0.95 24 Capital and other financial commitments 2012 2011 m m Capital expenditure commitments expenditure on property, plant and equipment 0.6 4.9 Other financial commitments expenditure on investments 0.5 Total contracts placed for future capital and other financial expenditure not provided for in the financial statements 0.6 5.4 139 AR ARM M Holdings Holdings plc plc An Annual R nual Re epo port rt & Acco & Accounts unts 20 2012 12 Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments At 31 December 2012, the Group had commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: 2012 2011 Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total m m m m m m The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Within one year 6.8 20.4 27.2 6.1 19.7 25.8 Later than one year and less than five years 16.9 21.5 38.4 15.5 37.1 52.6 After five years 6.7 6.7 5.4 5.4 At 31 December 30.4 41.9 72.3 27.0 56.8 83.8 The Group leases office buildings and EDA tools software under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The lease terms are between two and ten years, and the majority of lease agreements are renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate.
26 Financial contingencies It is common industry practice for licensors of technology to offer to indemnify their licensees for loss suffered by the licensee in the event that the technology licensed is held to infringe the intellectual property of a third party.
Consistent with such practice, the Group provides such indemnification to its licensees but subject, in all cases, to a limitation of liability.
The obligation for the Group to indemnify its licensees is subject to certain provisos and is usually contingent upon a third party bringing an action against the licensee alleging that the technology licensed by the Group to the licensee infringes such third partys intellectual property rights.
The indemnification obligations typically survive any termination of the licence and will continue in perpetuity.
The Group does not provide for any such indemnities unless it has received notification from the other party that they are likely to invoke the indemnity.
A provision is made if both of the following conditions are met: i information available prior to the issuance of the financial statements indicates that it is probable that a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements: and ii the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
Any such provision is based upon the directors estimate of the fair value of expected costs of any such claim.
At present, the Group is not a party in any legal proceedings in which the directors believe that it is probable that the resolution of such proceedings will result in a material liability for the Group.
Currently, there are legal proceedings against some of the Groups licensees in which it is asserted that certain of the Groups technology infringes third party patents, but in each of those proceedings the Group either presently has no obligation to indemnify, because certain preconditions to indemnification have not been satisfied by such licensees, or to the extent that there is any present obligation to indemnify, the Group does not believe that it is probable that the resolution of such proceedings will result in a material liability for the Group.
If preconditions to indemnification are satisfied then an indemnification obligation may arise which could result in a material liability for the Group.
The Group is presently in discussions with a licensee to re-negotiate the terms upon which the Group will indemnify that licensee.
In the event that there is agreement with that licensee on the terms presently expected, an obligation of up to US$20 million will arise on adoption of the new indemnity terms.
27 Related party transactions During the year, the Group was invoiced 4.2 million 2011: 4.2 million in subscription fees by its associated company, Linaro Limited Linaro.
At 31 December 2012, 1.0 million 2011: 1.1 million was outstanding.
In addition the Group provided consulting and other services to Linaro amounting to 1.7 million 2011: 1.6 million.
All fees have been charged in accordance with the terms of the agreement.
At 31 December 2012, 1.0 million 2011: 0.7 million was owed to the Group.
Further information relating to Linaro is disclosed in note 29.
There were no other related party transactions during 2012 which require disclosure.
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 3.
28 Post-balance sheet events After the year end, the directors proposed payment of a final dividend in respect of 2012 of 2.83 pence per share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 17 May 2013 to shareholders on the register on 19 April 2013.
The final dividend has not been recognised as a distribution during the year ended 31 December 2012.
140 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 29 Principal subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures Subsidiaries Details of principal subsidiary undertakings are shown below.
Not all subsidiaries are included as the list would be excessive in length.
A full list is filed in the Groups Annual Return.
All investments are indirectly held unless otherwise shown.
Proportion of total nominal value of Name of undertaking Country of registration Principal activity issued shares held ARM Limited England and Wales Marketing, and research and development of RISC-based 100 microprocessors and physical IP ARM Inc.
US Marketing, and research and development of RISC-based 100 microprocessors and physical IP ARM KK Japan Marketing of RISC-based microprocessors and physical IP 100 ARM Korea Limited South Korea Marketing of RISC-based microprocessors and physical IP 100 ARM France SAS France Marketing and development of RISC-based microprocessors 100 and physical IP ARM Norway AS Norway Development of graphics IP 100 ARM Sweden AB Sweden Development of graphics IP 100 ARM Germany GmbH Germany Marketing of RISC-based microprocessor IP.
Marketing, 100 and research and development of microcontroller tools ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt.
Limited India Marketing, and research and development of RISC-based 100 microprocessors and physical IP ARM Taiwan Limited Taiwan Marketing, and research and development of RISC-based 100 microprocessors and physical IP ARM Consulting Shanghai Co. Limited PR China Marketing, and research and development of RISC-based 100 microprocessors and physical IP The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited.
Both ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited are 100% owned within the Group.
Associate During 2010, the Group became a founder member of Linaro, a not-for-profit engineering company created to foster innovation in the Linux community.
Linaro is a company limited by guarantee and as such has no shareholders.
The Group controls only 25% of the board and therefore considers Linaro to be an associate rather than a subsidiary.
The Group has not recognised any associate profit or loss, or net assets on the basis that the entity is not-for-profit.
Joint venture On 4 December 2012 Trustonic Limited, a joint venture of which the Group holds a 40% share, commenced trading.
The initial investment value amounted to 7.5 million $12.0 million.
2012 2011 Investment in joint venture m m At 1 January Initial investment 7.5 Share of results for the period 0.7 At 31 December 6.8 The Groups share of the results of the joint venture, and its aggregated assets and liabilities, are as follows: Non-current Expenses Current Current assets assets liabilities Loss for period m m m m At 31 December 2012 -Trustonic Limited 3.7 4.6 1.5 0.7 The Groups share of joint venture capital commitments amount to 0.6 million at 31 December 2012.
141 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Company balance sheet UK GAAP 2012 2011 Note m m At 31 December Fixed assets Investments 4 616.1 593.4 Current assets Debtors 5 0.8 32.8 Cash at bank and in hand 0.9 0.1 1.7 32.9 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 3.0 0.5 Net current liabilities assets 1.3 32.4 Total assets less current liabilities 614.8 625.8 Net assets 614.8 625.8 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 7 0.7 0.7 Share premium account 8 12.2 6.6 Share option reserve 8 61.4 61.4 Profit and loss reserve 8 540.5 557.1 Total shareholders funds 9 614.8 625.8 The financial statements on pages 142 to 148 were approved by the Board of directors on 27 February 2013 and were signed on its behalf by: Sir John Buchanan, Chairman 142 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP 1 Principal accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable Accounting Standards in the UK.
A summary of the more important accounting policies, which have been consistently applied and reviewed by the board of directors in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18, Accounting policies, is set out below: Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are initially recorded at cost.
Where an acquisition satisfies the provisions of section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 for merger relief, the investment is stated at the nominal value of shares issued plus the fair value of any other consideration.
Cash flow statement The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 1 Revised 1996 Cash flow statements which provides that where a company is a member of a group and a consolidated cash flow statement is published, the company does not have to prepare a cash flow statement.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at actual rates of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences have been included in operating profit.
Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments The Company does not have any financial instruments, other than intercompany payables and receivables, and cash.
Due to the short-term nature of these balances, the Company considers the fair value of these items to equal the carrying value.
Because the Company is included in the consolidated financial statements of the ARM Holdings plc Group which are publicly available, and the financial disclosures required by FRS 29 are in those financial statements, no disclosure has been presented in these financial statements.
Share schemes The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments, including an LTIP, to certain employees of subsidiary undertakings.
In accordance with FRS 20, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed in the accounts of the subsidiary companies on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The Company operates Save As You Earn SAYE schemes in the UK and an Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP in the US and India.
Options under the SAYE scheme were at a 20% discount to market price of the underlying shares on the date of announcement of the scheme.
The UK SAYE schemes are approved by the Inland Revenue, which stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available, and has applied the provisions of FRS 20 only to those options granted after 7 November 2002 and which were outstanding at 31 December 2004.
The Company does not have any employees and as such, in accordance with UITF 44, all share-based payments have been recorded as capital contributions to all subsidiaries.
The Company recharges the relevant amount of the share-based payments to its US subsidiary.
Consequently, the amount recharged is offset against the carrying value of its investments.
Treasury shares The Company has a share buyback programme under which the Company is able to purchase its own shares and hold them as treasury shares.
There were no treasury shares in place at 31 December 2012 or 2011.
In accordance with FRS 25, the Company recognises these shares at cost as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds.
143 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP continued 2 Profit for the financial year As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent companys profit and loss account has not been included in these financial statements.
The parent companys loss after taxation, including dividends receivable and before dividends payable was 1.9 million 2011: 1.1 million.
The Company has no employees: all five executive directors as at 31 December 2012 have contracts of service with ARM Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
The emoluments of four of these directors are paid by ARM Limited, and one of the directors is paid by ARM Inc, the details of which are disclosed in the remuneration report within these financial statements.
Audit fees are disclosed in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements on page 120.
3 Dividends paid and proposed 2012 2011 m m Final dividend paid of 2.09 pence per ordinary share in respect of 2011 2011: 1.74 pence in respect of 2010 28.8 23.4 Interim dividend paid of 1.67 pence 2011: 1.39 pence per ordinary share 23.0 18.8 51.8 42.2 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2012 of 2.83 pence per share which will absorb an estimated 40 million of shareholders funds.
It will be paid on 17 May 2013 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 19 April 2013, subject to approval by the shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
4 Investments The cost and net book value of interests in Group undertakings held by the Company was 616.1 million at 31 December 2012 and 593.4 million at 31 December 2011.
The Company took advantage of merger relief in 2004 and did not record the premium on the issue of shares for the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. now ARM Inc. and thus did not record the premium within the value of the investment in the Company balance sheet at that time.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings m Cost and net book value At 1 January 2012 593.4 Capital contributions arising from share-based payments 37.1 Refund of costs related to share issue 2.7 Recharge to subsidiary of share-based payments 11.7 At 31 December 2012 616.1 During 2012, it was confirmed by HMRC that they would not challenge a ruling that the stamp duty incurred on the issue of shares of a UK company to a depositary or clearance system outside the EU was in breach of EU law.
ARM has therefore been able to claim a full refund of 2.7 million for stamp duty incurred on the issue of shares for the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 2004.
Where options and awards over the Companys shares have been issued to the employees of subsidiary undertakings, the fair value of employee services performed equal to the share-based payments has been recorded as a capital contribution.
Interests in Group undertakings Details of subsidiary undertakings are as follows: Proportion of nominal value Country Description of issued of registration of shares held shares held Name of undertaking ARM Limited England and Wales Ordinary 1 shares less than 0.01% ARM Finance UK Limited England and Wales Ordinary $1 shares 100% The principal activity of ARM Limited is the marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and physical IP.
The remaining shares in ARM Limited were held at the balance sheet date by ARM Finance UK Limited AFL and ARM Finance UK Three Limited AFL3 with AFL3 itself being an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of AFL.
The principal activities of both AFL and AFL3 are as intermediate holding companies.
144 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 5 Debtors 2012 2011 m m Amounts owed by Group undertakings 32.4 Prepayments and accrued income 0.5 0.1 Deferred tax assets 0.3 0.3 0.8 32.8 A deferred tax asset in respect of timing differences arising on losses has been recognised, and it is expected that profits will be available in the future to offset these losses.
6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2012 2011 m m Amounts owed to Group undertakings 2.7 Accruals 0.3 0.5 3.0 0.5 7 Called-up share capital 2012 2011 m m Authorised 2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each 2011: 2,200,000,000 1.1 1.1 Allotted, called-up and fully paid 1,380,768,350 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each 2011: 1,351,315,597 0.7 0.7 29,452,753 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each were issued in the year for cash consideration of 5.6 million as a result of the exercise of share options at various times during the year.
All options lapse ten years from date of grant.
146 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements 7 Called-up share capital continued The Company also issues restricted stock units RSUs to employees which are actual share awards on vesting rather than options to buy shares at a fixed exercise price.
These shares will be deferred for three years, and then a further matching award will be made depending on the achievement of an EPS performance condition over that time.
For disclosures relating to the grants in the year and fair value assumptions, reconciliations of opening to closing option balances and related items, please refer to note 23 in the consolidated financial statements.
8 Reserves Share premium Share option Profit and account reserve loss reserve m m m At 1 January 2012 6.6 61.4 557.1 Premium on issue of share options 5.6 Credit in respect of capital contributions arising from share-based payments 37.1 Loss attributable to shareholders 1.9 Equity dividends payable 51.8 At 31 December 2012 12.2 61.4 540.5 The share option reserve represents the fair value of options granted on the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 2004.
The Company considers the share option reserve and share premium account as non-distributable.
Within the profit and loss reserve are credits in respect of FRS 20 employee share-based payments in respect of services performed by employees of subsidiary undertakings and recorded as a capital contribution.
The Company also considers these credits as non-distributable.
As such, approximately 380 million of the profit and loss reserve is deemed distributable.
The Company did not undertake any share buy-backs during 2012.
The quantum and frequency of share repurchases is not predetermined and will take into account prevailing market conditions, the shortto medium-term cash needs of the business and the level of employee share-based remuneration going forward.
At 31 December 2012, there were nil 2011: nil shares in the Company still held from purchases made in prior years.
147 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP continued 9 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 2012 2011 m m Loss attributable to shareholders 1.9 1.1 Equity dividends payable 51.8 42.2 53.7 43.3 Proceeds on issue of treasury shares on exercise of share options 1.9 New share capital issued 5.6 6.6 Credit in respect of capital contributions arising from share-based payments 37.1 40.5 Net reduction addition to shareholders funds 11.0 5.7 Opening shareholders funds 625.8 620.1 Closing shareholders funds 614.8 625.8 10 Capital commitments The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2012 and 2011.
11 Financial commitments and contingencies At 31 December 2012 and 2011 the Company had no annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases.
12 Related party transactions The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosure available to parent companies under FRS 8, Related party disclosures, where transactions and balances between wholly owned Group entities have been eliminated on consolidation.
148 Overview Our marketplaceStrategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial performance approach statements Independent auditors report to the members of ARM Holdings plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Company balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities included in the Directors report, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Charles Bowman Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 27 February 2013 149
