The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
At 29 January 2011 a surplus was recognised on the defined benefit plan in accordance with the requirements of IFRIC 14, which gives guidance as to when defined benefit pension surpluses may be recognised.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
The Group recognises gains and losses on the curtailment or settlement of a defined benefit plan when the curtailment or settlement occurs.
The gain or loss on curtailment comprises any resulting change in the fair value of plan assets, changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation and any related actuarial gains and losses and past service costs that had not previously been recognised.
Share-based compensation The Group grants equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
These are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the grant date.
The fair value of the equity settled share-based payment determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The Group also provides employees with the ability to purchase the Companys ordinary shares at a discount to the current market value through payroll.
The Group records as an expense the fair value of the discount on the shares purchased by the employee as a charge to the income statement and a credit to the share options reserve.
At each year end date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to the share options reserve.
Profit-sharing and bonus plans The Group recognises a liability and an expense for various bonuses based on formulae that take into consideration the profit attributable to the Companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
The Group recognises a provision where there is a contractual obligation or where there is a past practice that has created a .
Provisions A provision is recognised if, as the result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan which has been either announced or has commenced.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
Dividend distributions Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
A. G. BArr p. l. c. Annual report and Accounts 2012 73
