Taxation Return on capital employed for the period The tax charge of 7.3m represents an increased to 22.8% previously 21.4%, effective tax rate of 20.5%.
The effective reflecting the increase in pre exceptional tax rate, as reported in the accounts for profit of 6.2% relative to a slightly reduced the previous year was 25.8%.
results from a tax credit relating to the sale of properties together with the beneficial impact Non Current Assets on deferred tax following the enactment of The residual value of intangible assets of the 25% corporation tax rate, a 2% reduction 74.6m relates to the carrying value of the from the prior year rate, combined with the Strathmore and Rubicon brands, goodwill and reduced corporation tax rate applied to this customer lists.
This has reduced by 0.3m years profits.
from the prior year, reflecting the amortisation of Groupe Rubicon acquired customer lists Earnings Per Share EPS which now have a residual life of seven years.
Basic EPS for the period was 73.43p, In line with the relevant accounting standard up 24.8% on the same period last year.
intangible assets values were tested for Underlying EPS i. e. excluding exceptional impairment at the end of the year.
The test items at 66.84p represents an increase of concluded considerable headroom was 9.1% on the prior year, benefiting from the available with no impairment necessary.
reduced tax rate in the year.
Property, plant and equipment reduced by 3.7m in the year to 54.9m.
Whilst 6.6m Dividends of capital expenditure was undertaken The board is recommending a final dividend during the period, this was offset by 3.3m of 20.65p per share to give a total dividend of disposals, following the closure and for the year ending 28 January 2012 of subsequent sale of the Mansfield site and 27.95p.
This represents an increase of 10% a further 7m of normal depreciation.
The compared to the prior year.
Over the past majority of capital expenditure was invested five years dividends have increased by 47% in plant and equipment at Cumbernauld, with a total of 41.6m having been paid to commercial vehicles and commercial assets, shareholders representing an average payout which included branded vending machines ratio of 40% of basic EPS.
Balance Sheet Review In the forthcoming year we anticipate normal The Groups balance sheet has continued to capital expenditure to be circa 10.0m.
strengthen during the year, with net assets Included within this estimate is 2.0m for increasing from 116.7m to 127.0m.
This has a proposed head office extension, 1.7m mostly been driven by a reduction in current for IT related investment, which includes the and non-current liabilities, notably reduced first phase of an ERP replacement project, trade and other payables, reduced borrowings installation and commissioning of an effluent and lower deferred tax liabilities.
treatment plant and various infrastructure and normal operations based replacement Three themes emerge from a review of the projects.
It is now unlikely that we will be Groups balance sheet.
During the year progressing with the outright purchase redundant assets have been sold making of a wind turbine, however, the Group is the asset base more effective, our ratio of net committed to embracing sustainable energy debt to EBITDA of only 0.2 times has reduced sources and reducing CO emissions and 2 in line with expectation and our defined benefit is currently reviewing alternative routes that pension deficit at 0.4m is very manageable.
will optimise the use of capital.
