Non-current assets classified as held for sale Non-current assets are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continued use, and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the estimated cash flows.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of a bad debt provision account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within administration costs.
When a trade receivable becomes uncollectable it is written off against the bad debt provision.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less impairment in the parent company accounts.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the cash flow statement.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestbearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
During 2008 the Group had entered into an interest rate hedge on its loan liability.
This was designated as a cash flow hedge and has now matured.
At the inception of the transaction, the Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of the derivative instrument used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 12.
Movements on the hedging reserve in shareholders equity are shown in the statement of changes in equity.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as non-current when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months from the statement of financial position date and as current when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months from the statement of financial position date.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within administration costs.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled through the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within administration costs.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised within the income statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
A. G. BArr p. l. c. Annual report and Accounts 2012 71
