Directors Remuneration Report Continued The LTIP performance conditions were chosen to align executive directors share awards to Company performance over a three year period, thereby aligning the interests of the directors with those of the shareholders.
In addition to the above elements of remuneration, there are two further elements which are available to all qualifying employees: All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP The AESOP is HMRC approved and the executive directors participate in both sections of the scheme, which is open to all qualifying employees.
The partnership share element provides that for every three shares a participant purchases in the Company, up to a maximum contribution of 125 per month, the Company will purchase one matching share.
The matching shares purchased are held in trust in the name of the individual.
There are various rules as to the period of time that the shares must be held in trust but after five years the shares can be released tax free to the participant.
The free share element allows participants to receive shares to the value of a common percentage of their earnings, related to the performance of the Group.
The maximum value of the annual award is 3,000 and the shares awarded are held in trust for five years.
Under the terms of this scheme, the matching shares will be forfeited if the participant leaves the employment of the Company within three years of the award.
All other partnership, matching and free shares must be removed from the trust if employment with the Company ceases.
A resolution to re-approve the AESOP for a further ten years will be put to shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE The SAYE is HMRC approved and is available to all qualifying employees, including executive directors.
It is based on a five year savings contract which provides the participant with an option to purchase shares after five years at a discounted price fixed at the time the contract is taken out, or earlier as provided by the scheme rules.
No performance conditions require to be met by any participant in order to exercise their option under the SAYE.
Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS The ESOS was approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM and approved by HMRC on 11 June 2010.
The 2010 ESOS replaced the Companys current Executive Share Option Scheme, which expires on 19 May 2013 2003 ESOS.
To date, no options have been awarded under the 2003 ESOS or the 2010 ESOS.
Share ownership guidelines In order to align the executive directors longer term interests with those of shareholders, share ownership guidelines require executive directors to retain all shares acquired under Company sponsored share plans until the value of their shareholding is equal to their annual gross basic salary.
Until this shareholding is acquired, the executive directors may not, without Remuneration Committee approval, sell shares other than to finance any tax liabilities arising from the vesting of LTIP awards.
Pension schemes Executive directors are all members of the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2008 Pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Scheme.
The Scheme has a defined benefit section and a defined contribution section.
The defined benefit section was closed to new entrants from 14 August 2003.
Details of the entitlements accruing to the two directors who are currently members of the defined benefit section are detailed in the table on page 54.
The contributions paid to the defined contribution section in respect of three directors are disclosed on page 55.
During the year to 28 January 2012, R. A.
B. C. Short joined the A. G. BARR p. l. c. Unfunded Retirement Benefit Scheme URBS with the agreement of the Company.
The URBS was approved by the Remuneration Committee of the Board and is an unfunded employer financed retirement benefits scheme.
It was established to satisfy the Companys contractual obligations to provide retirement benefits for the benefit of these two executive directors.
As a result, from April 2011 employer and employee contributions to the defined benefit section of the Scheme ceased in respect of R. A.
White and employer contributions to the defined contribution section of the Scheme reduced in respect of A.
Non-executive directors remuneration The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by the board within the limits set by the Articles and reviewed annually.
Nonexecutive directors received remuneration for their services during the year as disclosed in the table of directors detailed emoluments on page 52.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Companys share option schemes, share award schemes, or bonus schemes.
With the exception of W. R. G. Barr, the non-executive directors do not participate in the Companys pension schemes.
50 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012
