Partnerships Efficient Operations British Asian Trust We have worked hard with our franchise The underlying growth momentum of Rubicon cricket ambassador Muttiah partners to deliver our key objectives across our brands and the additional impact of the 2011 12 financial year.
increasing numbers of formats and related Muralitharan and British Asian Trust levels of packaging complexity, in addition ambassador Dimitri Mascarenhas Rockstar grew by 18.7% in the period, ahead to the relentless drive for efficiency meant helped deliver a 10,000 donation of a buoyant carbonated energy market which that 2011 12 was a challenging year from an from Rubicon Exotic Juice Drinks to grew by 16.4%.
The Rockstar brand benefited operational perspective.
The planned closure The British Asian Trust at the Finals from further innovation and a great rate of sale of our Mansfield site in March 2011 and its day of the FriendsLife t20 in August.
The combination subsequent sale was successfully achieved.
As part of the Rubicon Love Cricket of the brands consumer position and market The completion of our capacity extension at campaign, Rubicon pledged to donate leading innovation coupled with our strong Cumbernauld and the full commissioning of 250 for every wicket taken by two executional capabilities gave the brand great the equipment proved to be somewhat more of the top bowling stars in this years growth momentum, especially in the second challenging than we initially forecast.
The launch of the Xdurance combination of late delivery of equipment FriendsLife t20.
range in late 2011 and planned format and commissioning challenges in relation to developments for 2012 will ensure that we production packaging equipment in tandem can continue to deliver strong growth in this with the increased complexity of our increasingly important sector of the category.
production requirements led to capacity In the final quarter of 2011 we also agreed to shortfalls and consequential cost the March 2012 launch of Barr Strike energy inefficiencies across the summer of 2011. drink, with our energy partner Rockstar, The team worked hard to minimise the effect enabling us to compete more aggressively in on both customers and from a financial the mid tier, smaller format size sector of the perspective, however our performance energy market.
We have learned numerous lessons and, importantly, we made The Orangina brand continued to make good very good progress across the final quarter progress with its agreed value based strategy of the year to improve our outputs, planning and celebrated 75 years as a successful and customer service levels.
We are pleased brand in 2011. to report that the Cumbernauld sites performance is now meeting and in some Our export business delivered further good cases exceeding our output expectations and performance, growing by 13.4% in the period.
helping to support the growth we anticipate We are pleased to have agreed a new long looking forward.
term contract with PepsiCo for the manufacture and distribution of IRN-BRU During the course of the year we also made across Russia.
We have experienced good progress across our supply chain to continued growth in sales of Rubicon across improve flexibility, capacity and efficiency.
Europe and Scandinavia and we plan to further step up growth in our export business across 2012, building on the solid platform IRN-BRU extends sponsorship which currently exists.
A. G. BARR has agreed an extended deal with the Rugby Football League which will see IRN-BRU remain as the official soft drink of Rugby League and Super League until the end of the 2013 season.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
