The Budget in March 2012 proposed the reduction in the main rate of U. K. Corporation tax to 24%.
Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 22% in April 2014.
These proposed reductions of the main rate of Corporation tax are expected to be enacted separately each year.
These changes have not been substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date and have therefore not been recognised in these financial statements.
It has not been possible to quantify the impact of the changes in these financial statements.
No deferred tax asset is recognised in the statement of financial position for unused capital losses of 1,895,000 2011: 1,895,000.
A further deferred tax asset of 1,115,000 2011: 1,204,000 has not been recognised in respect of acquired tax losses in Taut U. K. Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
23 Lease commitments The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows for the Group and Company: 2012 2011 000 000 No later than one year 1,436 1,033 More than one year but not more than five years 1,482 2,482 Due beyond five years 559 757 Total lease commitments 3,477 4,272 24 Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, cash flow and fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by the finance department in accordance with policies approved by the board of directors.
The Groups finance department identifies, evaluates and manages financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
The board provides guidance on overall market risk management including use of derivative financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity.
In addition, treasury matters are dealt with by the Treasury Committee.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally.
The Group primarily buys and sells in Sterling but does have some purchases and sales denominated in USDollars and Euros.
For the year ended 28 January 2012, if Sterling had weakened strengthened by 10% against the US dollar or Euro, with all other variables held constant, there would have been a negligible effect on post tax profit 29 January 2011: negligible impact on post taxprofit.
The Group periodically enters into forward option contracts to purchase foreign currencies for known capital purchases where the value and volume of trading purchases is known.
Price risk The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk because no such investments are held by the Group.
The Group purchases a wide range of commodities in the ordinary course of business.
Exposure to changes in the market price of certain of these commodities, including sugar, plastic, aluminium and mango, is managed through the use of forward physical supply contracts, primarily to convert floating or indexed prices to fixed prices.
The use of such contracts to hedge commodity exposures is governed by the Groups risk management policies and is continually monitored by the Treasury Committee.
Commodity derivatives also provide a way to meet customers pricing requirements whilst achieving a price structure consistent with the Groups overall pricing strategy.
All of the Groups commodity derivatives are treated as own use contracts, which are outside the scope of IAS 39, since they are both entered into, and continue to be held, for the purposes of the Groups ordinary operations, and are not net settled the Group takes physical delivery of the commodity concerned.
Own use contracts do not require accounting entries until the commodity purchase actually crystallises.
A. G. BArr p. l. c. Annual report and Accounts 2012 95
