Directors service contracts Executive directors are appointed on rolling contracts which do not have a set termination date.
An executive directors contract will terminate following either the Company or the executive director giving the other requisite notice that they wish to terminate the executive directors contract.
It is the Companys current policy that executive directors service contracts have a notice period of not normally more than one year.
The service contract for each of the executive directors provides for a notice period of one year except during the six months following either a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction.
Under these conditions and certain circumstances the notice period reverts to two years for each of the executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee considers that, given the shareholding structure of the Company, this condition is appropriate in order to attract and retain high calibre executive directors.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, subject to annual re-election by shareholders in accordance with the Code.
It is the Companys current policy that non-executive directors may serve a maximum of three consecutive three-year terms, with any term beyond six years being subject to rigorous review.
Their service contracts are terminable by either the Company or the directors themselves upon three months notice.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during business hours and at the AGM.
The executive and non-executive directors have no contractual entitlement to compensation payments in the event of loss of office other than those related to their period of notice.
Details of the service contracts of the executive directors and of the letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are as follows: Effective date of contract Notice period required from director Notice period required from Company Executive R. A.
B. C. Short 28 May 2008 6 months 1 year J. D. Kemp 11 October 2003 6 months 1 year A. L. Memmott 01 March 2008 6 months 1 year Non-executive R. G. Hanna 26 May 2009 3 months 3 months W. R. G. Barr 26 May 2009 3 months 3 months J. Warburton 16 March 2009 3 months 3 months M. A. Griffiths 01 September 2010 3 months 3 months Statement of consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group In determining remuneration, consideration will be given to reward levels throughout the organisation as well as in the external employment market.
The Remuneration Committee aims to reward all employees fairly based on their role, their performance and salary levels in the wider market.
In the year under review, excluding A. L. Memmott, the average base salary increase for the executive directors was 3.7% and for all other staff was 4.8%.
The base salary increase for A. L. Memmott in the year under review was 7.4%.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51
