Inter-company transactions, balances, income and expenses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Profits and losses resulting from inter-company transactions that are recognised in net assets are also eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with those adopted by the Group.
revenue recognition Revenue is the net invoiced sales value exclusive of value added tax of goods and services supplied to external customers during the year.
Sales are recorded based on the price specified in the sales invoices, net of any agreed discounts and rebates.
Revenue is recognised when the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount can be measured reliably.
Sales related discounts and rebates are calculated based on the expected amounts necessary to meet the claims of the Groups customers in respect of these discounts and rebates.
Segment reporting An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components and for which discrete financial information is available.
Segment results that are reported to the management committee as chief operating decision maker include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those which can be allocated on a consistent basis.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Functional and presentation currency items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are re-measured.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement in the same line in which the transaction is recorded.
Exceptional items As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, an item is treated as exceptional if it is considered unusual by its nature and scale and is of such significance that separate disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment charges.
Impairment charges on goodwill are not reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside of goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Brands Separately acquired brands are recognised at cost at the date of purchase.
Brands acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Brands acquired separately or through a business combination are assessed at the date of acquisition as to whether they have an indefinite life.
The assessment includes whether the brand name will continue to trade, and the expected lifetime of the brand.
All brands acquired to date have been assessed as having an indefinite life as they are expected to continue to contribute to the long term future of the Group.
The brands are reviewed annually for impairment, being carried at cost less accumulated impairment charges.
The fair value of a brand at the date of acquisition is based on the Relief from Royalties method, which is a valuation model based on discounted cash flows.
A. G. BArr p. l. c. Annual report and Accounts 2012 69
