Accounting Policies Continued Intangible assets continued Customer relationships Customer relationships acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
The customer relationships have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method over the expected life of the customer relationship.
The closing balance in the current year represents the carrying value of the customer relationships acquired during the acquisitions of the Strathmore Water business and Groupe Rubicon Limited.
The fair value of the customer relationships at the acquisition date was based on the Multiple Excess Earnings Method MEEM which is a valuation model based on discounted cash flows.
The useful lives of customer relationships are based on the churn rate of the acquired portfolio and are up to 10 years corresponding to a yearly amortisation of between 10% and 33%.
Water rights Water rights represent the cost of purchasing the water rights at Pitcox.
This is the source of Findlays Mineral Water.
As the land rights give indefinite access to the water source at no cost, the rights have been given an indefinite life and are tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings comprise mainly factories, distribution sites and offices.
All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of any replaced part is derecognised.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation is charged from the date that assets, other than land, are available for use.
It is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost to the residual values of the related assets using the following rates: Buildings 1% Leasehold buildings Term of lease Plant, equipment and vehicles 10% to 33% The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each year end date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the net proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within administration expenses in the income statement.
Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
The Group has two properties accounted for under an operating lease.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not berecoverable.
An impairment charge is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
70 A. G. BArr p. l. c. Annual report and Accounts 2012
