We have changed our visual safety standards In addition to focusing on improving Advertising as a result of the benchmarking exercise, with operational safety, A. G. BARR, in partnership A. G. BARR fully complies with both the the emphasis shifting towards identifying and with AA DriveTech, commenced a driver letter and the spirit of the codes of practice communicating hazards in order to improve training programme: employees are set out by the Advertising Standards safety standards in high risk areas of the accompanied by a driving instructor from Authority in the Broadcast Committee of business.
the AA to identify areas where driver safety Advertising Practice code for broadcast awareness could be improved.
A safety advertising and the Committee of Advertising At our operational sites we aim to segregate DVD for all Company car drivers has been Practice code for non-broadcast advertising.
people and vehicles, however, in some produced as part of this safety initiative.
instances our logistics and production Quality and Food Safety employees necessarily work in close 3 Our Consumers Two strategies are employed by A. G. BARR proximity to powered trucks.
Our new visual Our goal is to enable consumers to enjoy our to ensure that it maintains good process standards help to communicate the one soft drinks, offering a wide range of brands control and high hygiene standards: firstly metre rule, our minimum safe working which meet a variety of consumer needs to meet the requirements of ISO 9001, distance from any powered truck.
We market our brands in a the internationally recognised Quality responsible manner in order to build trusted Management System, and, secondly to Our commitment to ensuring key personnel consumer relationships.
comply with the British Retail Consortiums are trained in safety continued in 2011, with Global Standard for Food Safety.
10 employees successfully completing the Health and Wellbeing NEBOSH National Examination Board for A. G. BARR provides a comprehensive range On 1 January 2012, the Global Food Standard Occupational Safety and Health certificate.
of soft drinks which offers a wide choice of was upgraded to version 6 in response drinks for all ages, to suit individual needs to retailers requirements for even higher Excellent progress has been made in the and tastes.
Our drinks are available in a wide standards from manufacturers.
We can report overall safety performance of the business range of pack sizes, both for convenience that we retained our Grade A status.
across all sites, with a 31% reduction in the and to exercise portion control.
All of our soft over three day reportable accident levels.
drinks can be enjoyed as part of a balanced Last year we reported the recruitment of diet and a healthy lifestyle.
a new team of Quality Assurance Officers The moving annual total MAT for reportable at our Cumbernauld site.
This team has accidents in 2011 reduced from thirteen Guideline Daily Amount labelling is deployed subsequently had a major impact by to nine, and five of our locations had no across all our packs to provide consumers increasing the detection of and reducing reportable accidents in 2011. with information on the content of our drinks, the potential for errors in the production enabling them to make informed choices.
process, leading to increased confidence Improvement in safety performance has in the quality of the extensive product been made by our Direct to Store Delivery range made at our flagship site.
A safety training day, covering hazard spotting and near miss reporting was rolled out to the 150 employees working in our DSD operation in Scotland.
All participants signed a safety pledge and were invited to put forward safety improvement ideas which have subsequently been implemented.
Left: Investors in People Employees at Middlebrook pictured with their Silver Status IIP certificates.
Right: Safety Rules Visual standards from the one metre rule safety initiative.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33
