Accounting Policies General information A. G. BARR p. l. c. the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group manufacture, distribute and sell soft drinks.
The Group has manufacturing sites in the U. K. and sells mainly to customers in the U. K. but does have some international sales.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in Scotland.
The address of its registered office is Westfield House, 4 Mollins Road, Cumbernauld, G68 9HD.
Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated and parent Company financial statements of A. G. BARR p. l. c. have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
They have been prepared under the historical cost accounting rules.
The directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these accounts for the reasons set out in note 30.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in the accounting policies on page 74.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 and have not presented an income statement for the Company.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures a New and amended standards adopted by the Group There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 30 January 2011 that have a material impact on the Group.
b New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 30 January 2011 and not adopted early The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning after 30 January 2011 unless otherwise stated, but the Group has not adopted them early.
They will be applied from 27 January 2013, subject to endorsement by the E. U. and are not expected to have a material effect on the Groups financial statements: Amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits effective 1 January 2013 IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements effective 1 January 2013 IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities effective 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair value measurement effective 1 January 2013 Consolidation subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls an entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group and for acquisitions prior to 1 July 2009 costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Currently, there are no non-controlling interests in any of the entities within the Group.
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired less liabilities assumed.
If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised as a credit in profit or loss.
68 A. G. BArr p. l. c. Annual report and Accounts 2012
