Explanatory Notes The following notes provide an explanation of the resolutions to be considered at the one hundred and eighth annual general meeting the AGM of A. G. BARR p. l. c. the Company.
Resolutions 1 to 15 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Resolutions 16 and 17 will be proposed as special resolutions.
This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, at least threequarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
resolution 1 receive and approve the reports and accounts Shareholders are being asked to receive and approve the audited accounts of the group and the Company as audited by KPMG Audit plc KPMG for the year ended 28 January 2012 together with the associated reports of the directors and auditors.
resolution 2 Directors remuneration report Shareholders are being asked to approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 28 January 2012 which is set out on pages 49 to 55 of this document.
resolution 3 Final dividend Shareholders are being asked to approve a final dividend of 20.65p per ordinary share of 12.5 pence for the year ended 28 January 2012.
If shareholders approve the recommended final dividend, it will be paid on 1 June 2012 to all shareholders on the Companys register of members on 4 May 2012.
The proposed subdivision of the Companys ordinary shares as described in Resolution 15 below will not affect the aggregate amount of dividend which will be payable to a shareholder in respect of their shareholding following the passing of this resolution.
resolutions 4 to 11 inclusive re-election of directors The board of directors of the Company the Board complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code whereby all directors are subject to annual re-election.
Accordingly, all directors of the Company are retiring and offering themselves for re-election.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 38 and 39 of this document.
The Board has confirmed that, following formal performance evaluation, all of the directors continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The Board therefore unanimously recommends the proposed re-election of the directors.
resolution 12 re-appointment of auditors The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at which accounts are presented to shareholders and KPMG have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Accordingly, shareholders are being asked to re-appoint KPMG as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the audit committee of the Board to fix their remuneration.
resolution 13 Authority to allot shares The directors may not allot shares in the Company unless authorised to do so by shareholders in general meeting.
Subparagraph a of Resolution 13, if passed, will authorise the directors to allot shares having an aggregate nominal value of up to 1,621,788.50, representing approximately one third of the Companys issued share capital as at 25 April 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
The directors have no present intention to exercise this authority.
In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, sub-paragraph b of Resolution 13, if passed, will authorise the directors to allot additional shares in connection with a rights issue having an aggregate nominal value of up to 1,621,788.50, representing approximately one third of the Companys issued share capital as at 25 April 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
The directors have no present intention to exercise the authority sought under sub-paragraph b of this resolution, however, if such authority is obtained, it will give the Company greater flexibility to allot additional shares for the purpose of a pre-emptive rights issue.
This authority will be used when the directors consider it to be in the best interests of shareholders.
The authorities sought under Resolution 13 will expire on the earlier of 31 July 2013 being the latest date by which the Company must hold its annual general meeting in 2013 and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2013.
A. G. BArr p. l. c. Annual report and Accounts 2012 107 Explanatory Notes Continued resolution 14 All Employee Share Ownership Plan At the Companys annual general meeting held in 2001, shareholders were asked to approve the terms of the All Employee Share Ownership Plan known as the AESOP.
The rules of the AESOP allow the Company to make share awards for up to 80 years with the authority to do so expiring in 2081.
Principles of good corporate governance now recommend that schemes such as the AESOP should only exist for a period of 10 years before they end and a company asks its shareholders to consider putting in place a new scheme.
Rather than terminating the existing AESOP and incurring the cost of setting up a new scheme, the Company has decided to seek shareholder approval for the continued operation of the AESOP.
This year is the first year shareholders will be asked to re-approve the AESOP and the Company intends to seek a similar shareholder approval every 10 years.
resolution 15 Approve share subdivision The Board proposes to subdivide the Companys ordinary share capital the Share Subdivision which, as at 25 April 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document, comprised 38,922,926 ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each the Existing Ordinary Shares.
Resolution 15, if passed, would treble the number of shares in issue to 116,768,778 ordinary shares of 4 1 6p each the New Ordinary Shares.
The Board believes that subdividing the Companys ordinary share capital in this way is in the best interests of the existing shareholders of the Company as a whole.
First, the Board believes the Share Subdivision may improve the liquidity and marketability of the ordinary shares.
Secondly, the Board believes that the Share Subdivision may enable the Company to attract more private investors and broaden its shareholder base.
Some frequently asked questions in relation to the Share Subdivision are set out in the Appendix to these explanatory notes.
Save for the costs to be incurred by the Company in implementing the Share Subdivision which the Board believes are insignificant, the Share Subdivision will not alter the underlying assets, business operation, management or financial position of the Company or the proportional interest of each shareholder in the Company.
The Company operates various employee share schemes and share saving schemes together, the Share Schemes.
Currently, awards are made under the Share Schemes in Existing Ordinary Shares.
Following the Share Subdivision, current and future awards under the Share Schemes will be in New Ordinary Shares rather than Existing Ordinary Shares.
Although no amendments are required to any of the Share Schemes, the Company will be required to modify the exercise price of any options granted, and the number of ordinary shares to be awarded, under the Share Schemes.
Certain administrative changes will also be required in respect of each of the Share Schemes to allow for New Ordinary Shares to be issued or transferred as appropriate instead of Existing Ordinary Shares.
As some of the Share Schemes are schemes which have been approved by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC, the Company has sought approval from HMRC for the Share Subdivision.
As at 9 April 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document, HMRC had not approved the consequential adjustments to the Share Schemes required as a result of the Share Subdivision the HMRC Approval.
Without the HMRC Approval, the approved status of the relevant Share Schemes may be prejudiced by the Share Subdivision.
As a result, the Share Subdivision is conditional upon receiving HMRC Approval.
Subject to the passing of Resolution 15 and the Company receiving HMRC Approval, the Official List of the UK Listing Authority the UKLA will be amended to reflect the Share Subdivision of the Existing Ordinary Shares it is intended that this will be done as soon as practicable after HMRC Approval is received.
The Company will make an announcement once HMRC Approval has been received and confirm the date on which the amendment to the Official List of the UKLA and other related matters will take place.
The New Ordinary Shares will have the ISIN code GB00B6XZKY75.
Conditional upon the Share Subdivision becoming effective, shareholders will receive a new share certificate which records the number of New Ordinary Shares held.
If Existing Ordinary Shares are held in uncertificated form a shareholders CREST account will be credited with New Ordinary Shares on the day the Official List of the UKLA is amended.
Conditional upon the Share Subdivision becoming effective, all awards under any of the Share Schemes will be satisfied in New Ordinary Shares.
The Company or the Companys registrars will write to those individuals who are affected by this change to the operation of the Shares Schemes and set out the consequences of the Share Subdivision to their entitlements under the relevant Share Scheme s. 108 A. G. BArr p. l. c. Annual report and Accounts 2012 resolution 16 Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights If the directors wish to allot new shares for cash, the Companies Act 2006 the Act states that the shares must be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
For legal, regulatory and practical reasons, however, it might not be possible or desirable for shares allotted by means of a pre-emptive offer to be offered to certain shareholders, particularly those resident overseas.
Furthermore, it might in some circumstances be in the Companys interests for the directors to be able to allot some shares for cash without having to offer them first to existing shareholders.
To enable this to be done, shareholders statutory pre-emption rights must be disapplied.
Accordingly, Resolution 16, if passed, will empower the directors to allot a limited number of new equity securities without shareholders statutory pre-emption rights applying to such allotment.
The authority conferred by Resolution 16 would also cover the sale of treasury shares for cash.
Sub-paragraph a of Resolution 16 would confer authority on the directors to make any arrangements which may be necessary to deal with any legal, regulatory or practical problems arising on a rights issue, an open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders, for example, by excluding certain overseas shareholders from such issue or offer.
Sub-paragraph b of Resolution 16 would disapply shareholders statutory pre-emption rights by empowering the directors to allot equity securities for cash on a non pre-emptive basis but only new equity securities having a maximum aggregate nominal value of 243,268, representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued share capital as at 25 April 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
The authority sought under Resolution 16 will expire on the earlier of 31 July 2013 being the latest date by which the Company must hold an annual general meeting in 2013 and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2013. resolution 17 Purchase of own shares The Act permits a company to purchase its own shares provided the purchase has been authorised by shareholders in general meeting.
Resolution 17, if passed, would give the Company the authority to purchase any of its own issued ordinary shares at a price of not less than an amount equal to the nominal value of an ordinary share and not more than the higher of: i 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five dealing days before any purchase is made: and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent trade on the London Stock Exchange plc.
The authority will enable the purchase of up to a maximum of 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of the AGM, and will expire on the earlier of 31 July 2013 being the latest date by which the Company must hold an annual general meeting in 2013 and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2013.
The directors will only exercise this buy back authority after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company.
Purchases would be financed out of distributable profits and shares purchased would either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue reduced accordingly or held as treasury shares.
The Company operates two share option schemes under which awards may be satisfied by the allotment or transfer of ordinary shares to a scheme participant.
However, in practice, the Company has always satisfied awards to participants by the transfer of ordinary shares from the trustee of each of the schemes.
As at 1 April 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document, options had been granted over 811,503 Existing Ordinary Shares the Option Shares representing approximately 2.08% of the Companys issued share capital at that date.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares as described in Resolution 17 were exercised in full, the Options Shares would represent approximately 2.32% of the Companys issued share capital as at 1 April 2012.
As at 1 April 2012, the Company did not hold any treasury shares.
A. G. BArr p. l. c. Annual report and Accounts 2012 109
