Accounting Policies Continued Key judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the statement of financial position date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
Due to the nature of estimation, the actual outcomes may well differ from these estimates.
Management has made the following judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies: Interest rate swaption and cash flow hedge note 12 The Group measured the interest rate swaption contract and the cash flow hedge contract at fair value at each statement of financial position date.
The fair value represented the net present value of the difference between the projected cash flows at the swap contract rate and the relevant interest rate for the period from the statement of financial position date to the expiry date of the contract.
The calculation used estimates of present value and future interest rates.
The swaption has now expired.
Retirement benefit obligations note 25 The determination of any defined benefit pension scheme surplus obligation is based on assumptions determined with independent actuarial advice.
The assumptions used include discount rate, inflation, pension increases, salary increases, the expected return on scheme assets and mortality assumptions.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives note 10 Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives must be tested for impairment each year under IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
Determining whether there is any impairment requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill or intangible asset has been allocated.
Value in use calculations require the estimation of the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit along with a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Fair value estimation The carrying values of trade payables and trade receivables less impairment provisions are assumed to approximate their fair values.
74 A. G. BArr p. l. c. Annual report and Accounts 2012
