The Budget in March 2012 proposed the reduction in the main rate of U. K. Corporation tax to 24%.
Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 22% in April 2014.
These proposed reductions of the main rate of Corporation tax are expected to be enacted separately each year.
These changes have not been substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date and have therefore not been recognised in these financial statements.
It has not been possible to quantify the impact of the changes in these financial statements.
No deferred tax asset is recognised in the statement of financial position for unused capital losses of 1,895,000 2011: 1,895,000.
A further deferred tax asset of 1,115,000 2011: 1,204,000 has not been recognised in respect of acquired tax losses in Taut U. K. Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
23 Lease commitments The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows for the Group and Company: 2012 2011 000 000 No later than one year 1,436 1,033 More than one year but not more than five years 1,482 2,482 Due beyond five years 559 757 Total lease commitments 3,477 4,272 24 Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, cash flow and fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by the finance department in accordance with policies approved by the board of directors.
The Groups finance department identifies, evaluates and manages financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
The board provides guidance on overall market risk management including use of derivative financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity.
In addition, treasury matters are dealt with by the Treasury Committee.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally.
The Group primarily buys and sells in Sterling but does have some purchases and sales denominated in USDollars and Euros.
For the year ended 28 January 2012, if Sterling had weakened strengthened by 10% against the US dollar or Euro, with all other variables held constant, there would have been a negligible effect on post tax profit 29 January 2011: negligible impact on post taxprofit.
The Group periodically enters into forward option contracts to purchase foreign currencies for known capital purchases where the value and volume of trading purchases is known.
Price risk The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk because no such investments are held by the Group.
The Group purchases a wide range of commodities in the ordinary course of business.
Exposure to changes in the market price of certain of these commodities, including sugar, plastic, aluminium and mango, is managed through the use of forward physical supply contracts, primarily to convert floating or indexed prices to fixed prices.
The use of such contracts to hedge commodity exposures is governed by the Groups risk management policies and is continually monitored by the Treasury Committee.
Commodity derivatives also provide a way to meet customers pricing requirements whilst achieving a price structure consistent with the Groups overall pricing strategy.
All of the Groups commodity derivatives are treated as own use contracts, which are outside the scope of IAS 39, since they are both entered into, and continue to be held, for the purposes of the Groups ordinary operations, and are not net settled the Group takes physical delivery of the commodity concerned.
Own use contracts do not require accounting entries until the commodity purchase actually crystallises.
A. G. BArr p. l. c. Annual report and Accounts 2012 95 Notes to the Accounts Continued 24 Financial risk management continued The majority of the Groups forward physical contracts and commodity derivatives have original maturities of less than one year.
As all of the commodity contracts qualify for the own use treatment, no sensitivity analysis has been carried out.
Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk As the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets, the Groups income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Groups interest rate risk arises from long term borrowings.
Borrowings obtained at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk, which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
During the year to 28 January 2012 the interest rate swap held by the Group expired.
Due to the low interest rate levels in the year and their expected low level in the coming year no interest rate swaps have been entered into.
The interest rate swaption held by the Group note 13 was allowed to expire as it was not beneficial to the Group to exercise the option.
At 28 January 2012, if interest rates on Sterling-denominated borrowings at that date had been 0.5% higher lower with all other variables held constant, there would have been a negligible change in the post tax profit for the year 29 January 2011: negligible impact.
Credit risk Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to major and direct to store customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
For banks and financial institutions, only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of A are accepted.
If major customers are independently rated, these ratings are used.
Otherwise, if there is no independent rating, risk control processes assess the credit quality of the customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors.
Individual risk limits are set by the management committee based on internal or external ratings.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
Sales to direct to store customers are largely settled in cash in order to manage credit risk from smaller, independent stores.
Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, the Group maintains flexibility in funding by maintaining sufficient cash reserves and the availability of borrowing facilities.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserve which comprises undrawn borrowing facilities and cash and cash equivalents on the basis of expected cash flows.
This is carried out at a Group level and involves projecting cash flows for capital expenditure and considering the level of liquid assets necessary to meet these.
Capital risk management The Group defines capital as being net debt plus equity.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern and maintain an appropriate capital structure to balance the needs of the Group to grow, whilst operating with sufficient headroom within its bank covenants.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group has a number of options available to it including modifying dividend payments to shareholders, returning capital to shareholders or issuing new shares.
In this way, the Group balances returns to shareholders between long term growth and current returns whilst maintaining capital discipline in relation to investing activities and taking any necessary action on costs to respond to the currentenvironment.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the net debt EBITDA ratio.
Net debt is calculated as being the net of cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
The net debt position is discussed in the Financial Review on pages 16 to 25.
The net debt EBITDA ratio enables the Group to plan its capital requirements in the medium term.
The Group uses this measure to provide useful information to financial institutions and investors.
The Group believes that the current net debt EBITDA ratio provides an efficient capital structure and an acceptable level of financial flexibility.
For the year ended 28 January 2012, the net debt EBITDA ratio was 0.2 times year ended 29 January 2011: 0.4 times.
The Group monitors capital efficiency on the basis of the return on capital employed ratio ROCE.
In the financial year ended 28 January 2012, ROCE improved to 22.8% from 21.4%.
96 A. G. BArr p. l. c. Annual report and Accounts 2012
