Training and development On appointment to the board, directors are provided with a full, formal and tailored programme of induction, to familiarise them with the Groups businesses, the risks and strategic challenges the Group faces, and the economic, competitive, legal and regulatory environment in which the Group operates.
The Chairman agrees and regularly reviews the training and development needs of each director.
A programme of strategic and other reviews, together with the other training provided during the year, ensures that directors continually update their skills, their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups businesses, and their awareness of sector, risk, regulatory, legal, financial and other developments to enable them to fulfil effectively their role on the board and committees of the board.
Meetings and attendance Board meetings are scheduled to be held nine times each year.
Between these meetings, as required, additional board meetings may be held to progress the Companys business.
The practice of separate Group strategy discussions out with the normal board meeting schedule has continued in the current year.
In advance of all board meetings the directors are supplied with detailed and comprehensive papers covering the Groups operating functions.
Members of the management team attend and make presentations as appropriate at meetings of the board.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the board for the timeliness and quality of information provided to it.
The Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors during the year without the executive directors being present.
The attendance of directors at board and committee meetings in the year to 28 January 2012 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Maximum 9 Maximum 4 Maximum 2 Maximum 1 Executive R. A.
B. C. Short 9 J. D. Kemp 9 A. L. Memmott 9 Non-executive R. G. Hanna 9 2 1 W. R. G. Barr 8 4 2 1 J. Warburton 7 3 2 1 M. A. Griffiths 9 4 2 1 Conflicts of Interest The Articles were amended at the 2009 annual general meeting to allow the board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise from time to time, subject to certain conditions.
The Company has established appropriate conflicts authorisation procedures, whereby actual or potential conflicts are regularly reviewed and authorisations sought as appropriate.
During the year, no such conflicts arose and no such authorisations were sought.
Committees of the board The terms of reference of the principal committees of the board Audit, Remuneration and Nomination have been approved by the board and are available on the Companys website, www.
Those terms of reference have been reviewed in the current year and are reviewed at least annually.
The work carried out by the Audit and Nomination Committees in discharging their responsibilities is summarised below.
The work carried out by the Remuneration Committee is described within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 55.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45
