Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee During the year, the Remuneration Committee comprised the following non-executive directors: W. R. G. Barr appointed Remuneration Committee chairman 31 January 2011 R. G. Hanna J. Warburton M. A. Griffiths Remit The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining all aspects of executive directors remuneration and for monitoring the remuneration of senior management.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for recommending the remuneration of the Chairman to the board.
No director makes a decision relating to their own remuneration.
Individual directors leave the meeting when their own remuneration is being discussed.
Advisers The Remuneration Committee has access to professional advice, both inside and outside the Company, and consults with the Chief Executive.
During the year,  and Shepherd & Wedderburn LLP were appointed by the Remuneration Committee to provide advice that materially assisted the Remuneration Committee.
 also provided internal audit services and corporate pensions advice to the Company, and Shepherd & Wedderburn also provided legal advice on pensions to the Company and to the trustees of the Groups defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
Remuneration policy The ongoing policy of the Remuneration Committee is to reward the executive directors in line with the current remuneration of directors in comparable businesses taking into consideration the advice of independent benefit consultants in order to recruit, motivate and retain high quality executives within a competitive marketplace.
Consistent with this policy, the benefit packages awarded to executive directors are intended to be competitive and comprise a mix of performance and non-performance related elements designed to incentivise directors and align their longer term interests with those of shareholders.
In the year to 28 January 2012, a significant proportion of the executive directors remuneration was performance related through the annual performance bonus and share awards pursuant to the LTIP.
During the year, the performance related elements of the remuneration package amounted to approximately 60% of the total executives package 2011: approximately 50%.
The executive directors remuneration consists of the following elements: Base salary and benefits Basic salaries and benefits in kind are reviewed within the policy each year.
Basic salaries are reviewed each year to take account of movements in the market place and individual contribution.
Annual bonus This scheme aims to provide focus among the senior executives, including executive directors, on the annual financial performance of the Group.
It is principally based on Profit Before Tax excluding exceptional items : the Remuneration Committees view is that this is the most appropriate performance measure since it represents a key short-term operational driver of the business.
A maximum of 100% of each executive directors base salary is currently payable in cash under the scheme.
As referred to in the annual report of the Group for the year ended 29 January 2011, there has been a change to this policy from the preceding year.
Following an external independent review of the executive directors remuneration during the preceding year, the maximum percentage of each executive directors base salary payable in cash under the scheme was increased from 75% to 100% for the year to 28 January 2012: this policy is expected to continue in future years.
There have been no departures from this policy in the current year.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP This scheme was approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 19 May 2003 and amended by resolution of the shareholders at the AGM held on 26 May 2009.
It is available to reward executive directors by the award of shares if the average earnings per share EPS of the three years running up to and including the year of calculation exceeds the average EPS of the three years preceding that period, both being adjusted for Retail Price Index, by 10% points or more.
No part of an award vests if EPS growth is less than 10% points above RPI growth over the three year period.
20% 99.9% of an award vests on a sliding scale where EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by 10% points or more but by less than 32.5% points.
100% of an award vests where EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by 32.5% points or more.
The maximum value of any award of shares is 100% of basic salary.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49
