Business review Business review Chairmans statement How weve performed Governance What we said What we did Key achievements Both prior to and following our listing, Q The alignment of remuneration New LTIP proposed in line Maintaining focus our approach has been underpinned with shareholder interests with UK best practice by a commitment to high standards Q Board evaluation performed The balance and effectiveness of corporate governance, corporate of the Board and its composition in 2012 responsibility and sustainable on delivery development.
Our undertaking is to Q The active stewardship of risk Performed in-depth review of key deliver progressively more effective management risks and management response stewardship and accountability to all our stakeholders through an ongoing process of review and assessment.
Dividend and the active stewardship of risk management.
For the Board Outlook Bobby Godsell Our dividend policy in 2012 has evolved in response to to maximise its effectiveness it must ensure that the proper The Board is pleased to be able to report on such a Chairman of the increased demand for dividend ow from institutional investors governance and strategy setting procedures are in place so successful year for Polymetal.
We have delivered a very strong Board of Directors across the world.
It also highlighted our ability to generate free that the Company can maintain its ability to sustain financial performance against the operational and strategic objectives cash ow at the current stage of our development.
As a result, that we set ourselves at the time of listing.
We continue to performance, dividend ow to shareholders, and to generate a new dividend policy has been adopted by the Board, raising value to all its stakeholders.
make strong progress on consistent long-term strategic aims, the regular dividend payout ratio to 30% of net earnings, and in particular the development of a third generation of growth introducing interim dividends and an annual consideration of We remain committed to ensuring that the Company is run assets.
Our focus continues to be rmly on delivering results a special dividend.
We rmly believe that the amended in the best interests of all its stakeholders and that the Board and building sustainable value for the long term.
dividend policy will be signicantly more aligned with the is accountable for responsible stewardship, disciplined interests of the Companys stakeholders and global trends performance and sustainable value delivery.
in the sector, reafrming the Companys commitment to capital allocation discipline and value distribution while People retaining exibility to invest in attractive projects.
Polymetals good performance this year is entirely due to the talent, dedication and hard work of all our employees.
Bobby Godsell The Board was delighted to declare, in accordance with the Our strong prospects for future growth are equally dependant Chairman On behalf of the Board, I am delighted new policy that, having considered the performance of the on their continuing commitment.
We are not only highly to be reporting on a year of tremendous Group during the year to date, available free cash ows appreciative of the efforts of our employees at all levels, and future investment requirements, a special dividend but are also absolutely clear that the wellbeing of everyone progress for Polymetal.
In our first full of US$0.50 per ordinary share, representing a total of associated with Polymetal is of critical importance.
This was paid in January 2013. year as a premium listed company on In addition, a final dividend of US$0.31 per share is proposed, the London Stock Exchange, we have representing 30% of our net profit for the year.
successfully delivered on our promises The declaration of the first special dividend in the Companys Board of Directors and committees Summary in terms of production, performance, history and the increased regular payout reafrm our commitment to capital discipline and is also a result Member of the Board governance and the generation Improved governance systems and practices of solid operating and financial results of the Group to date.
of Directors The implementation of our new dividend policy reects the of value for our stakeholders.
Bobby Godsell Experienced Board importance we place on delivering meaningful cash returns Vitaly Nesis to our shareholders and sustainable value creation.
O Jonathan Best Performance Marina Grnberg Talented people throughout the business We have consistently demonstrated strong operational The Board and Governance Leonard Homeniuk O Russell Skirrow performance throughout the year, with total gold equivalent Governance is at the heart of our culture, providing a New dividend policy Konstantin Yanakov production 31% up on 2011 and 6% ahead of original framework within which we can maintain and develop the Jean-Pascal Duvieusart expectations.
This excellent result was driven in particular by values and practices that support our corporate objectives, O Charles Balfour Strong outlook for sustainable value solid performance at our mature mines, robust performance and which ensure that Polymetal reects high levels of ethical at Dukat and successful ramp-ups at Omolon and Albazino.
Chairman Executive Director Non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director While the completion of major projects and significant resource During our first full year as a premium listed company on the Effective leadership O expansion have both contributed signicantly to our success Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee London Stock Exchange we have worked hard to ensure that Nomination Committee during the year and helped to develop a distinctive competitive we reect both the letter and the spirit of the UK Corporate prole for Polymetal, we have also made progress against wider For more information on our Governance Code.
Our approach is designed to achieve strategic objectives.
Throughout the year, we have announced a balance between encouraging positive commercial values, corporate governance several resource increases, the most important being the and applying the appropriate disciplines where required.
twofold resource expansion at Albazino as a result of our ongoing exploration efforts.
In December we announced the We have been particularly focused on the Codes emphasis 88 completion of the acquisition of the Olcha gold-silver deposit on the alignment of remuneration with shareholder interests, See more on pages 88-109 and a greeneld PGM project, our first platinum asset.
the balance and effectiveness of the Board and its composition, 8 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 9 Business review Business review Chief Executives review How weve performed Production What we said What we did Our original production target for Q Increase in production of gold 1,063 A successful year 2012 was 1.0 Moz of gold equivalent.
equivalent of 31% to 1,063 Koz Koz of gold equivalent This represented a 23% increase over Q Target further growth of 1.2 Moz 2011 compared to an 8% increase for 2013 and 1.4 Moz for 2014 achieved in the period of 2011 of delivery and growth over 2010.
31% increase on 2011 We are already implementing the necessary remedial average grade processed and increased volumes, and I am very pleased to report that we experienced zero fatalities Vitaly Nesis measures, and are expecting a gradual improvement coupled with moderate Russian Rouble depreciation against for a second year in a row, and the lost time injury frequency Chief Executive throughout the year with full capacity being achieved by the US Dollar, offset the combined impact of domestic ination rate has also decreased in 2012 by another 6%, following the fourth quarter of 2013.
In the meantime, we will be able and adverse movement in gold silver price ratio.
The tragic loss of the dry-cargo to generate cash ows by continuing concentrate sales freighter Amurskaya, operated by a contractor of one of our to third-party off-takers.
In line with industry best practice, we started to report all-in subsidiaries, which capsized in the Sea of Okhotsk in October cash costs, which comprised US$1,047 GE oz, a 15% 2012, is a matter of lasting sadness and regret for everyone Development and exploration decrease year-on-year, driven mostly by reduction in capital at Polymetal.
We have already taken appropriate steps I am pleased to report that our development projects are well expenditure at our operating mines and stable total cash costs.
to roll-out our safety and risk management procedures on track.
The commissioning of Mayskoye, our most remote to our large supplier and contractor network.
and northerly mine, is scheduled to take place in April 2013.
Net earnings were US$401 million, up 39%, and basic EPS was US$1.03, up 30% year-on-year driven by strong increase We have a long history of involvement and support for the Furthermore, a substantial increase in the gold resource base in adjusted EBITDA.
The net earnings and EPS were negatively communities in which we operate, and which are in any affected by additional tax provisions booked in respect of prior way affected by our activities and operations.
We continue at Albazino to nearly 6 Moz and successful exploration results at Kutyn and Svetloye indicate that we are in a strong position years and 2012 in the amount of US$ 116 million, which are to be committed to playing a significant role in the social not expected to be recurring.
The earnings growth resulted and economic development of communities and indigenous to make decisions on significant new asset developments in the 2012 has proved to be a strong year, second half of 2013 and the beginning of 2014.
These projects, in improved returns on equity and capital employed reaching populations, and have an ongoing programme of investment with a solid set of operating results, if undertaken, will form a third generation of growth assets 20% and 22% respectively.
and financial support in terms of job creation, the development of local and regional infrastructure, health, education, culture, after reaching the target level of 1.4 Moz of gold equivalent favourable market conditions, production on the current asset base, which is expected Net operating cash ow more than doubled to US$496 million welfare and sports.
while capital expenditures declined 24% to US$351 million, significant progress across our key in 2014. resulting in total positive free cash ow of US$139 million.
Looking ahead investment projects and exploration We have a great deal to look forward to the results for 2012, The in-house exploration programme in 2012 and in the beginning of 2013 has been complemented by acquisition Our balance sheet remains strong, and liquidity prole and the strength of our development and exploration activities, targets, and a continuing focus on comfortable, with the net debt adjusted EBITDA ratio further give a good indication as to our prospects for the future.
In the activity, including acquisition of the Olcha deposit, which safety and employee welfare.
reduced from 1.4 to 1.1 during 2012, with 59% of borrowings year ahead, we will be fully focused on unlocking the potential will be part of the Dukat hub: the Svetlobor project, our first being long-term.
of the Amursk POX plant and the launch of Mayskoye, while greeneld project in platinum: and, most recently, Maminskoye, continuing to work on the third generation of growth assets.
a development stage asset in a perfect location with access Robust production results to infrastructure.
Both organic and inorganic growth projects Following the successful performance during 2012, a final This year we achieved total gold equivalent production dividend of US$0.31 per share is proposed by the Board We remain confident in our production guidance of 1.2 Moz are complementary with our business model, with capital of 1.06 Moz 31% up on 2011 and 6% ahead of original in accordance with our new dividend policy, reiterating for 2013 and in our commitment to both cost and capital discipline and commitment to return on capital as the core forecasts, representing our biggest annual increase in absolute our commitment to capital discipline and delivering value discipline.
While there are always risks associated with future numbers to date.
These excellent results were driven by stable criteria of value creation.
The cumulative dividend payout during prospects, we rmly believe that we have the assets, strategy performance at all mature mines, with a notable improvement the last twelve months, including the payment of the first and expertise to continue to build Polymetal as a world class achieved at Dukat, and successful ramp-up at Omolon and Strong financial performance special dividend, puts us among the leaders in the sector business and continue to deliver value to all our stakeholders.
We have achieved excellent financial results for the year Albazino, our key growth projects.
in terms of dividend yield.
driven by robust operating performance and tight cost and capital discipline.
Annual gold production increased to 589 Koz, up 33% Employees and communities compared to 2011, driven principally by robust operating As one of the largest employers and taxpayers in many areas results at Omolon and Albazino, both achieving or exceeding Revenue increased by 40% to US$1,854 million compared of our operations, with more than 9,000 employees in Russia to 2011, driven mostly by robust production growth resulting design capacity.
Silver production was 26.5 Moz also up and Kazakhstan, we are very conscious that our achievements 33% on 2011 as a result of higher grades and recoveries in a 33% increase in sales of gold equivalent ounces.
Metal are totally dependent on their commitment and dedication.
sales exceeded production for both gold and silver as a result at Dukat, successful processing of high-grade Sopka We have a clear focus on the wellbeing of all our staff, and Vitaly Nesis ore at Omolon, and increased grades at Khakanja.
of destockpiling of concentrate inventories at Dukat.
our health and safety procedures are subject to constant Chief Executive scrutiny, assessment and development.
We continue to invest 24 April 2013 We have commissioned our agship Amursk POX plant and Group total cash cost was US$703 GE oz, and remained signicantly in all areas relating to safety systems, procedures poured first gold in April 2012 as planned.
However, while almost at compared to the 2011 level of US$701 GE oz and equipment, which naturally remain central to our culture as a result of intense management focus on cost control throughput reached expected levels in late November, we and working practices.
experienced some operational issues during the ramp-up and despite external and inationary cost pressures.
Strong operating performance, resulting in increased and have not yet achieved expected sustainable performance.
10 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 11
