Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Operational overview with Laurence Bain Operational Our strategic vision remains constant: as a digital enterprise tolead our industry as the trusted global source for engineering solutions.
Achieving this will deliver profitable overview growth, stable margins and lasting shareholder value.
At the heart of our strategy, our four foundational pillars continue to drive profitable growth: The key EDE customer segment Customer needs are at the Our transformation to a web-centric business Expansion into the worlds rapidly growing heart of everything we do developingmarkets atPremier Farnell.
Continuing focus on the profitable MRO market segments Execution of the strategy is achieved through our continuinginvestment in transformation, not only of tangible infrastructure, but of our other vital resources.
By achieving this we will ensure that we are meeting the ever increasing needs of our growing customer base of around two million customer contacts.
Customer focused and web-centric Customer needs are at the heart of everything we do atPremier Farnell.
Consequently, our business supports customers in a way that we offer them a wealth of choice viaatruly multi-channel sales network.
Today this means that, in addition to enjoying the benefit ofourextensive online presence, our customers can also usemore traditional sales channels.
We have industry-leading regional contact centres, local field sales presence, printed Laurence Bain Chief Operating Officer and electronic catalogues and global technology centres, @premierfarnell Achieving our strategic vision will which are central to our ability to offer technical support deliverprofitable growth, stable margins and lasting tocustomers 24 hours a day, five days a week globally.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS However, within our multi-channel offering, the web is 200 technical and engineering resources and are investing MDD has operations in 34 countries where we provide our increasingly our customers channel of choice.
Whether intier one contact centres in every region, attracting the very customers with easy access to information and products and thisisfor research purposes, collaboration or for simply best people in their field to realise our vision.
Their activities consistent, fast and reliable delivery.
We ship over 67,000 line managing their purchasing requirements, the demand for aresupported with industry leading Customer Relationship items per day to anywhere in the world from seven distribution online transactional services continues.
We are now already Management CRM systems thereby ensuring we continually centres.
That is 18million line items per year.
Our shipping seeing the growth of the use of mobile technology throughout grow our market knowledge.
In addition, our international accuracy is 99.7% and, as demanded by our customers, the purchasing process.
Our online presence includes: expansion and market understanding continues to uncover weship 99.6% same day.
To do this we have continued 48websites, 33 of which are local language websites, the growth potential and our sales focus in all regions is toinvest in our global footprint and have sufficient capacity element14 Community, the industrys first online community intelligently targeted, drawing on all the advantages in our inthesupply chain to cope with further growth over the specifically for EDEs, and our latest innovation, the Knode, proposition togrow market share.
which is outlined in greater detail on page 23.
Our combination of channels delivers choice to our customers, All of these capabilities give us considerable competitive Our contact centres, located in Europe, the Americas and providing global access as well as local personal service, advantage and contribute to ensuring we are the distributor AsiaPacific, together with our field sales teams, provide ensuring we are easy to do business with, ready to meet ofchoice in our target markets.
These capabilities also targeted support into all of our key markets.
Globally, we have ourcustomers changing needs.
affordus the opportunity to easily and efficiently access 300 local sales resources, over 900 contact centre resources, newmarkets, as demonstrated by our developing market compound annualised growth rate CAGR of 11.6% over Delivering high service through a world-class thelast three years.
infrastructure We have made significant progress in improving operational Leading through innovation effectiveness across our businesses.
Our industry-leading supply chain capability and a continued focus on operational Success in our highly competitive marketplace today demands efficiency to provide service of the highest quality, continues clarity of purpose, speed of execution, change agility and todeliver industry leading returns.
This is clearly demonstrated organisational resilience.
It also requires dedicated and lasting in our Groups reported return on sales performance, which commitment to innovation so that we remain relevant to the has delivered 11% or more in four of the last five years across changing needs of customers.
The incredible growth of eCommerce has seen our With four million products available to our customers, 465,000 businesstransform into a digital enterprise.
This has allowed of which are from stock, our Marketing and Distribution us to generate greater efficiency in our businesses and Division MDD is a chosen partner of more than 3,500 global driveinvestment in delivering innovative solutions for our EDE franchised suppliers.
Additionally, the web allows us to build a closer relationship with our broad customer base, helping us shape our product and services portfolio to meet their requirements, both now and as they evolve in the future.
Breadth and depth of product With four million products available to our customers, 465,000 of which are from stock, wearea chosen partner of more than 3,500 globalfranchised suppliers.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 16 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS COO overview continued Two and a half years ago we launched the online element14 huge amounts of time in the research and product selection Our strategy was developed in order to realise the profitable Community for engineers that was the first of its kind in our phase of the design cycle.
Premier Farnell is increasingly growth opportunities in the specific markets of EDE and industry.
The first mover advantage ofan innovation like the engaging with EDE customers earlier in the design cycle, MRO.
Although we primarily report it in relation to MDD element14 Community is significant as the site combines providing them with the software and services that they whichaccounted for 93.7% of our revenue, we have seen our unique user generated content from discussion and blogs, needto complete their designs.
These innovations, together Industrial Products Division IPD adopt some of its elements.
with technical documents and information to create a with our online transactional services, converge to deliver Akron Brass grew across the year and has continued to repository of information that is truly competition beating.
aseamless customer experience which does not exist develop internationally and introduce new products to ensure Thepower of such a proposition creates a more intimate anywhere else in our industry.
its proposition remains differentiating in the industrial and customer relationship for us online, which is something fire-fighting equipment industry.
In todays hyper-speed web world, two further elements customers crave as demonstrated by the Community arenecessary for lasting success: first, intimate customer The opportunity for our business to grow is clear.
Our havingreceived 3.8million visits over the past 12 months, knowledge providing crucial insights to sharpen market marketplace is large and fragmented, with a mass of small withover 79,000 customers now registered users of the site.
understanding and to provide invaluable information on andmedium sized distributors competing for the available In another first for our industry, this year we launched the customer preferences for products and services: second, business.
We are executing our strategy and leveraging our Knode, anonline search and knowledge tool.
The Knodes afinely tuned infrastructure that can adjust and flex to customer focused approach, world-class infrastructure and online browsing environment follows the flow of the design themarket.
Our growing expertise in the new disciplines new innovations.
As a result, Premier Farnell is poised to take cycle, while also automatically defining content based on the ofSearchEngine Optimisation SEO and Search Engine advantage of the myriad opportunities our market affords, customers design specifications.
This saves the engineer Marketing SEM serve to accelerate our progress and while also becoming a better returning company, even in meetthese requirements.
thesetimes of shorter, shaper economic cycles.
This unique combination of services harnesses the mega trends of crowd sourcing, social media and the insatiable appetite within our industry for access to high qualityproduct and regulatory information, as well as access toindustry experts, positioning us well for further growth.
Converging commerce andcommunity The first mover advantage of an innovationlike the element14 Community issignificant.
It allows ustocreate a moreintimate customer relationship online.
The Community has received 3.8million visits over the past 12 months.
