60 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued Remuneration policy for all employees, including executive directors The companys remuneration policy for all employees is to provide remuneration packages which reward them fairly and responsibly for their contributions.
Remuneration packages are intended to be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate individuals of the quality required to achieve the groups objectives and thereby enhance shareholder value.
The Committee takes account of the level of remuneration paid in respect of comparable positions in similar companies.
The Committee is informed of pay and conditions throughout the group, including how company-wide pay tracks against the market.
When awarding salary increases to executive directors, the Committee takes account of the salary increases across the group.
While all employees participate in the companys incentive structures, the package of executive directors in particular is structured such that the greater part of total remuneration is delivered through long-term share-based incentives to ensure maximum alignment with shareholders.
These schemes provide a clear link between pay and performance ensuring that superior remuneration is paid only if superior performance is delivered over a six-year period.
Remuneration in 2012 The table below reports a single figure for total remuneration for each executive director for 2012, calculated in accordance with the methodology set out in the draft regulations issued by BIS in 2012.
The value of LTIP awards shown here is different to what has been disclosed under the Directors emoluments table on page 71.
The table below shows the value of LTIP awards for which the performance period ended during 2012, but will be released to participants at a future date.
The Directors emoluments table on page 71 shows the value of LTIP awards that were released to participants during the year.
Mr R A Allan received additional benefits for the year until 30 September 2012, relating to his expatriate position in Singapore.
Mr Allan returned to London in October 2012.
Full details of such benefits are disclosed in the Directors emoluments table on page 71.
LTIP awards reflect an estimated value of the 2010 Performance Share Awards PSA and 2010 Matching Share Awards.
On 19 March 2013, the Committee determined that the 2010 PSA and 2010 Matching Share Award will vest, as soon as the company enters an open period for dealing in shares.
An average share price over the three months to 31 December 2012 3.45 has been used to calculate the value of the LTIP awards.
