Business review Corporate governance Financial statements 12. Business combinations Acquisition of subsidiaries for the year ended 31 March 2012 The Group has not entered into any business combinations for the year ended 31 March 2012.
During the year the Group paid 0.9m in deferred consideration in respect of the prior year Sensoptics Limited acquisition.
Acquisition of subsidiaries for the year ended 31 March 2011 On 16 December 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Sensoptics Limited from its founder management team.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenue for the year ended 31 March 2011 would have been 1,705.0m and Group profit before tax would have been 27.3m.
Acquisitions in the year to 31 March 2011 Contribution post-acquisition Percentage Cash share acquired consideration Revenue Operating profit Acquisition Acquisition date % million million million Sensoptics Limited 16 December 2010 100% 2.8 0.7 0.2 Set out below are the allocations of purchase consideration, assets and liabilities of the acquisition made in the year and the adjustments required to the book values of the assets and liabilities in order to present the net assets of these businesses at fair value and in accordance with Group accounting policies.
Sensoptics Limited Acquisition in the year to 31 March 2011 Book Fair value Fair value at all figures in million value adjustment acquisition Net assets acquired 1.0 2.9 3.9 Goodwill 0.2 3.7 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 2.8 Deferred consideration 0.9 Total consideration 3.7 Sensoptics Limited is a designer of fibre-optic sensing hardware.
It was acquired to combine its technology with QinetiQs OptaSense signal processing capabilities.
The OptaSense solution provides cost-effective round-the-clock distributed acoustic monitoring over long distances.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the business combination relate to the intellectual property embodied within Sensoptics Limiteds existing products and products under development.
Total expected payments are in excess of the fair value of net assets acquired.
Certain potential payments are, however, linked to continuing employment assumptions for the retained founder management team, which would be forfeited in full if they were to leave within the stipulated period.
IFRS 3 revised requires this type of arrangement to be accounted for as remuneration expense as opposed to part of the consideration.
As a result, the acquisition resulted in negative goodwill of 0.2m, which was recognised as a gain in the consolidated income statement within gain loss on business combinations and divestments and disposal of investments.
The discounted fair value of the deferred contingent purchase price payments treated as remuneration was 6.1m which was charged to the consolidated income statement within operating costs significant non-recurring items.
Acquisition-related costs, included in other operating costs excluding depreciation and amortisation, amount to 0.2m.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 75
