NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Significant accounting policies Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented in dealing with items that are considered material in relation to the Groups financial statements.
In the income statement, the Group presents acquisition amortisation and specific non-recurring items separately.
In the judgement of the Directors, for the reader to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information, acquisition amortisation and specific non-recurring items need to be disclosed separately because of their size and incidence.
Specific non-recurring items are referred to in note 4.
Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements, approved by the Directors, have been prepared on a going concern basis as discussed in the Directors Report on page 43 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 103-105.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets and other relevant financial assets and liabilities.
Non-current assets held for sale are held at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Groups reporting currency is sterling and unless otherwise stated the financial statements are rounded to the nearest 100,000.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings to 31 March 2012.
The purchase method of accounting has been adopted.
Those subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the period are included in the consolidated income statement from the date control is obtained to the date that control is lost usually on acquisition and disposal respectively.
A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has the power to govern financial and operating policies in order to obtain benefits.
Potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when determining control.
An associate is an undertaking over which the Group exercises significant influence, usually from 20%-50% of the equity voting rights, in respect of financial and operating policy.
A joint venture is an undertaking over which the Group exercises joint control.
Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method from the date of acquisition to the date of disposal.
The Groups investments in associates and joint ventures are held at cost including goodwill on acquisition and any post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate less any impairment to the recoverable amount.
Where an associate or joint venture has net liabilities, full provision is made for the Groups share of liabilities where there is a constructive or legal obligation to provide additional funding to the associate or joint venture.
The financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are adjusted where necessary to ensure compliance with Group accounting policies.
On consolidation, all intra-Group income, expenses and balances are eliminated.
Revenue Revenue represents the value of work performed for customers, and is measured net of value added and other sales taxes on the following bases: Service contracts The Groups service contract arrangements are accounted for under IAS 18 Revenue.
Revenue is recognised once the Group has obtained the right to consideration in exchange for its performance.
No profit is recognised on contracts until the outcome of the contract can be reliably estimated.
When the outcome of a contract can be reliably estimated, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by the proportion of contract costs incurred for work performed to date compared with the estimated total contract costs after making suitable allowances for technical and other risks related to performance milestones yet to be achieved.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense.
The Group generally does not undertake construction contracts.
Goods sold Sales of goods are recognised in the income statement on delivery of the product or when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer and revenue and costs can be reliably measured.
Royalties and intellectual property Royalty revenue is recognised over the period to which the royalty relates.
Intellectual property revenue can be attributed either to perpetual licences or to limited licences.
Limited licences are granted for a specified period and revenue is recognised over the period of the licence.
Perpetual licences are granted for unlimited time frames and revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer.
62 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
