STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT O& T, E ANNUAL REPORT AND &INANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors are responsible for keeping R D the Annual Report and the Group and adequate accounng records that are A R parent company financial statements in sucient to show and eplain the parent We, the Directors of the Company, confirm accordance with applicable law companys transacons and disclose that to the best of our knowledge: and regulaons.
with reasonable accuracy at any me the The financial statements of the Group financial posion of the parent company Company law requires the Directors hae been prepared in accordance with and enable them to ensure that its financial to prepare group and parent company IFRS as adopted by the Eh, and for the statements comply with the Companies financial statements for each financial year.
Company under h GAAP, in accordance Act 2006.
They hae general responsibility hnder that law they are required with applicable hnited ingdom law, for taking such steps as are reasonably to prepare the Group financial statements and gie a true and fair iew of the assets, open to them to safeguard the assets of in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by liabilies, financial posion and profit the Group and to preent and detect fraud the Eh and applicable law and hae or loss of the Group: and and other irregularies.
elected to prepare the parent company The Directors Report includes a financial statements in accordance hnder applicable law and regulaons, fair reiew of the deelopment and with h Accounng Standards and the Directors are also responsible for performance of the business and the applicable law h Generally Accepted preparing a Directors report, Directors posion of the Group, together with Accounng Pracce.
remuneraon report and corporate a descripon of the principal risks and goernance statement that comply with hnder company law the Directors must not uncertaines that face the Group.
that law and those regulaons.
approe the financial statements unless By order of the Board they are sased that they gie a true and The Directors are responsible for the Mark Ellio fair iew of the state of aairs of the Group maintenance and integrity of the corporate C and parent company and of their profit or and financial informaon included on 24 May 2012 loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Companys website.
Legislaon in the Group and parent company financial the h goerning the preparaon and Leo Quinn statements, the Directors are required to: disseminaon of financial statements may C E O dier from legislaon in other jurisdicons.
24 May 2012 Select suitable accounng policies and then apply them consistently: Daid Mellors Make judgements and esmates that C & O are reasonable and prudent: 24 May 2012 For the Group financial statements, state whether they hae been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Eh: For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable h Accounng Standards hae been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and eplained in the parent company financial statements: Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will connue in business.
56 YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
