KW Z d KE Ks Zs t DELIVERING TECHNICAL ADVICE, SERVICE AND SOLUTIONS h h erices deliered an encouraging airworthiness and acquision support.
h profit and margin performance, despite The diision began operang ranges in reenue being down 7% on an organic candinaia during the year and recently basis, principally as a result of pressure on deliered range control and safety systems customer budgets.
Approimately 19m of for the Australian Woomera range.
Its the organic reducon was due to reenue pipeline includes opportunies to epand in the prior year from the DTR Early Works the proision of test and ealuaon serices contract which has completed.
hnderlying operang profit grew 33% to R&D acity increased oer the year, 63.0m 2011: 47.4m and the underlying parcularly for capabilies in which YineY margin increased to 10.3% 2011: 7.3%, has a leading market posion.
These include as the diision took acon to address its C4I R, where h erices manages key K cost base last year ahead of the epected enabling contracts on behalf of the MOD, market headwinds.
These results show and cryptography, where the business the impact of the 24-month self-help successfully deliered the worlds first programme, with improed customer recepon of an encrypted signal from a 450.3m sasfacon and project management.
Galileo satellite working for the European pace Agency.
Reducons in Goernment At the beginning of the year, YineYs departmental stang leels are also Force Protecon business, which had 41m proiding outsourcing opportunies of reenue during the 2011 financial year, Z to YineY as the h s main supplier of was transferred from Global Products imparal, client-side programme and to h erices to align with customer technical adice.
In August 2011, the h fuel and lubricants business was sold as part The newly created Training and imulaon 610.1m of ongoing porolio reiews.
erices T business is using COT technology to meet customer requirements The majority of h erices reenue is to reduce the cost of training.
Its plaorm deried from long-term managed serices independent and technology-agnosc contracts, including the ong-Term approach enables the business to integrate h Partnering Agreement TPA, under which a broad range of simulaon technologies 180m of saings hae been deliered to to delier operaonal and mission training.
In December 2011, By collaborang with YineYs h erices the diision won a four-year, 38m contract diision, T was awarded a posion on 63.0m in the marime domain which broadens the the approed companies list for a h 2bn Naal Combat ystems Integraon upport IDIY indefinite delieryindenite quanty erices it proides to the MOD.
contract under which the h Naal Air h erices connues to delier alue to its Warfare Center is able to procure training customers by fide-risking the deployment of h and simulaon serices.
This gies the technology for core defence programmes.
business access to the h market as a key In June 2011, it won a 22m mul-year training supplier to the h Nay.
contract to proide test and ealuaon serices for the A400M aircra as it comes 10.3% into serice in 2014.
This contract deliers an end-to-end ealuaon capability, including ight trials, safety adice, Denions of underlying measures of performance are in the glossary on page 107.
Restated to reect the transfer of businesses from Global Products to h erices and h erices at the beginning of the 2012 financial year.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 & h Reenue was down in the year by 7% on had Fz11 reenue of 19m, was transferred d an organic basis at constant currency, from Global Products to h erices to align reecng connued uncertaines in the with customer requirements.
This resulted in the Despite current uncertaines, the h delay of new and incremental orders and Goernment contracng market remains the cancellaon of some re-competes, with large and relaely resilient, and the shorter term etensions being awarded in diision had 109 proposals pending their place.
The organic reenue ariance decision by federal customers at year ecluded a 17m reducon following the end, with a total contract alue of diestment of the &I business in the prior W approimately h 1.3bn.
year but included: Following commencement of work in A reducon of 33m due to completed K March 2011, reenue streams ramped programmes such as the Iraqi Flight up on the NA A E C contract to proide Training chool: engineering support serices at the ennedy 29m reenue impact from Goernment pace Center in Florida.
During the year, insourcing which has now slowed: and 530.3m the team won the re-compete for the A 16m reducon resulng from the h 40m Enhanced aunch Vehicle Imaging switching of some work to small business ystem E VI contract, and earned a set-aside contracts.
100% customer sasfacon rang in both hnderlying operang profit was 32.1m contract support oerall and safetymission Z 2011: 45.9m and the underlying assurance.
Future opportunies eist in margin was 6.0% 2011: 7.6% as a result enhancing NA As capabilies for deep space of the olume impact on reenue, higher eploraon at ennedy, growing YineYs inestment in business deelopment, and presence at other NA A sites and etending 534.5m a change in reenue mi as lower margin core competencies to h Air Force space NA A work replaced higher margin sales.
The award of a h 36.5m IDIY contract to proide epert scienc and The h erices diision was the focus of analycal support at the Patrick Air Force the second year of the Groups 24-month Base in Florida demonstrates the potenal h self-help programme.
To posion for of this approach.
future growth, while responding to market condions, h erices eecuted a major h erices has a broad customer base restructuring programme reducing indirect and is posioned in segments epected 32.1m costs by h 25m.
This programme focused to be relaely resilient to defence cuts.
on eliminang duplicate oerhead costs The years largest award was a e-year, and management layers and has improed h 85m classied contract for the h the ability of the diision to compete Goernment.
The leadership of h erices awards included a contract to proide key h was strengthened by the appointment of components of the IT plaorm for the a single eperienced President and the Public Buildings erice, with a total alue upgrading of the majority of his direct of h 41m if all opons are eercised, and reports.
ey new hires hae included a h 39m h Army IDIY contract for its 6.0% leaders for the newly centralised business architecture characterisaon programme.
deelopment, pricing strategy and proposal The diision connues to inest in its cyber funcons in order to drie sales growth.
At the end of the year, it was selected by the Department of h erices was fully integrated during the Transportaons Volpe Center to proide first half of the year and reorganised into cyber security serices to protect h four business units that report direct to the transportaon control systems and crical President.
During the year, the Marime naonal infrastructure.
and Transportaon erices business, which YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 KW Z d KE Ks Zs t KEd Eh ' W As epected, reenue declined by 24% During the year, businesses that delier d organically at constant currency, following technical serices were transferred to the eceponally strong demand for the h and h erices, enabling the Y-Net ehicle suriability product in the Global Products diision to focus on the preious year.
In July, as part of on-going porolio reiew, the Group Despite the announcement of a metable agreed to dispose of pectro, a supplier of for the drawdown of h troops from oil and fuel analysis instrumentaon based Afghanistan, the Global Products diision in Massachuses, for h 20m.
met its target of generang h 100m of reenue from the Y-Net ehicle To een out its lumpy reenue prole, the suriability product 2011: h 288m with diision connues to increase its porolio products and spares contribung ch 50m of products and the Global Products K each.
To date, Y-Net has been selected framework is deliering a transatlanc to proide protecon on the MRAPite, approach to product commercialisaon.
For tryker, RG31 and MaPro ehicles in the eample, E-y-Drie, a hybrid electric drie h, against such alternaes as bar and slat system deeloped in the h, was selected 245.7m armour, as well as for ehicles in France as part of a consorum for the technology and Poland.
ignicant reenue was also deelopment phase of the h Armys generated by the Precision Air Drop ystem Ground Combat Vehicle Program, and the, suriability products such as PAD first transmission system was deliered at Z A T Armor spall liners, and the TA ON the end of the year.
The diisions Global family of robots, including an order for Integrated Project Team is also targeng oer 100 new Dragon Runner 10 robots future opportunies for h sales of A ARM, from the h Goernments Joint IED Defeat a radar that proides warning of in-coming Organisaon JIEDDO.
rocket re, and further h sales of the 325.0m robot.
lightweight Dragon Runner hnderlying operang profit increased to 66.2m 2011: 52.1m with an underlying The Opta ense bre-opc sensing business profit margin of 20.4% 2011: 11.8%.
The has been incorporated as an independent margin improement principally reects the global business, with new oces in North h mi of h product sales and substanally America and the Middle East.
Opta ense, improed performance in the h where a plaorm technology, is already generang the business was re-aligned with customer reenue in the oil and gas down-hole demand late 201011.
The technology and linear asset markets.
Following the 66.2m porolio is now rigorously tested for the best signing of a three-year, 26.5m contract routes to alue creaon with loss-makers with hell last year, the business agreed a diested, or closed, where they lack a iable global commercial framework agreement business model or suitable market access.
and began commercial hydraulic fracture h monitoring serices on shale wells in North America.
Opta ense now protects more than 6,000km of linear assets, including the worlds single largest pipeline project, which 20.4% connects to 75% of Indias renery capacity.
Denions of underlying measures of performance are in the glossary on page 107.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
