Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Share capital and other reserves Shares allotted, called up and fully paid: Special Share of 1 Ordinary shares of 1p each equity non-equity Total Number Number Number At 1 April 2010 6,604,764 660,476,373 1 1 6,604,765 660,476,374 Issued in the year At 31 March 2011 6,604,764 660,476,373 1 1 6,604,765 660,476,374 Issued in the year At 31 March 2012 6,604,764 660,476,373 1 1 6,604,765 660,476,374 Except as noted below all shares in issue at 31 March 2012 rank pari passu in all respects.
Rights attaching to the Special Share QinetiQ carries out activities which are important to UK defence and security interests.
To protect these interests in the context of the ongoing commercial relationship between the MOD and QinetiQ, and to promote and reinforce the Compliance Principles, the MOD holds a Special Share in QinetiQ.
The Special Share confers certain rights on the holder: a to require the Group to implement and maintain the Compliance System as defined in the Articles of Association so as to make at all times effective its and each member of QinetiQ Controlled Groups application of the Compliance Principles, in a manner acceptable to the Special Shareholder: b to refer matters to the Board or the Compliance Committee for its consideration in relation to the application of the Compliance Principles: c to veto any contract, transaction, arrangement or activity which the Special Shareholder considers: i may result in circumstances which constitute unacceptable ownership, influence or control over QinetiQ or any other member of the QinetiQ consolidated Group contrary to the defence or security interests of the United Kingdom: or ii would not, or does not, ensure the effective application of the Compliance Principles to and or by all members of the QinetiQ Controlled Group or would be or is otherwise contrary to the defence or security interests of the United Kingdom: d to require the Board to take any action including, but not limited to, amending the Compliance Principles, or rectify any omission in the application of the Compliance Principles, if the Special Shareholder is of the opinion that such steps are necessary to protect the defence or security interests of the United Kingdom: e to exercise any of the powers contained in the Articles in relation to the Compliance Committee: and f to demand a poll at any of QinetiQs meetings even though it may have no voting rights except those specifically set out in the Articles.
The Special Shareholder has an option to purchase defined Strategic Assets of the Group in certain circumstances.
The Special Shareholder has, inter alia, the right to purchase any Strategic Assets which the Group wishes to sell.
Strategic Assets are normally testing and research facilities see note 31 for further details.
The Special Share may only be issued to, held by and transferred to H. M. Government or as it directs.
At any time the Special Shareholder may require QinetiQ to redeem the Special Share at par.
If QinetiQ is wound up the Special Shareholder will be entitled to be repaid the capital paid up on the Special Share before other shareholders receive any payment.
The Special Shareholder has no other right to share in the capital or profits of QinetiQ.
The Special Shareholder must give consent to a general meeting held on short notice.
The Special Share entitles the Special Shareholder to require certain persons who hold together with any person acting in concert with them a material interest in QinetiQ to dispose of some or all of their Ordinary Shares in certain prescribed circumstances on the grounds of national security or conflict of interest.
The Directors must register any transfer of the Special Share within seven days.
Changes to the Special Share As announced on 30 March 2012, QinetiQ has obtained MOD consent to changes in its Special Shareholder rights, which are subject to shareholder approval at the 2012 AGM.
These changes include the removal of the MODs right to veto any transaction or activity and the introduction of a less onerous compliance system similar to those of comparable companies.
If approved, the rights detailed in paragraphs b to e detailed above will be amended as follows: b to refer matters to the Board for its consideration in relation to the application of the Compliance Principles: c to require the Board to obtain the Special Shareholders consent: i if at any time when the chairman is not a British Citizen, it is proposed to appoint any person to the office of chief executive, who is not a British Citizen: and ii if at any time when the chief executive is not a British Citizen, it is proposed to appoint any person to the office of chairman, who is not a British Citizen.
94 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
