Business review Corporate governance Financial statements The following new and improved published standards were in issue at the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements but are not yet effective and have not been adopted.
All are subject to EU endorsement and the impact of adopting these standards is under assessment: IFRS 9, Financial Instruments: IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements: IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement: and IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies The following commentary is intended to highlight those policies that are critical to the business based on the level of management judgement required in their application, their complexity and their potential impact on the results and financial position reported for the Group.
The level of management judgement required includes assumptions and estimates about future events that are uncertain and the actual outcome of which may result in a materially different outcome from that anticipated.
Revenue and profit recognition The estimation process required to evaluate the potential outcome of contracts and projects requires skill, knowledge and experience from a variety of sources within the business to assess the status of the contract, costs to complete, internal and external labour resources required and other factors.
This process is carried out continuously throughout the business to ensure that project and contract assessments reflect the latest status of such work.
No profit is recognised on a contract until the outcome can be reliably estimated.
Business combinations Intangible assets recognised on business combinations have been valued using established methods and models to determine estimated value and useful economic life, with input, where appropriate, from external valuation consultants.
Such methods require the use of estimates which may produce results that are different from actual future outcomes.
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
This process relies on the use of estimates of the future profitability and cash flows of its CGUs which may differ from the actual results delivered.
In addition, the Group reviews whether identified intangible assets have suffered any impairment.
Further details on the sensitivity of the carrying value of goodwill to changes in the key assumptions are set out in note 13.
Consolidation of US subsidiaries As described on page 43, the Group and the US Department of Defense DoD have entered into a proxy agreement that regulates the ownership, management and operation of the Groups 100% owned subsidiary, QinetiQ North America, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Having considered the terms of the proxy agreement, the Directors consider that the Group has control over the operating and financial policies of QinetiQ North America and, therefore, consolidates the subsidiaries in the consolidated accounts.
Post-retirement benefits The Groups defined benefit pension obligations and net income statement costs are based on key assumptions, including return on plan assets, discount rates, mortality, inflation and future salary and pension increases.
Management exercises its best judgement, in consultation with actuarial advisors, in selecting the values for these assumptions that are the most appropriate to the Group.
Small changes in these assumptions at the balance sheet date, individually or collectively, may result in significant changes in the size of the deficit or the net income statement costs.
Any change in these assumptions would have an impact on the retirement benefit obligation recognised.
Further details on these assumptions are set out in note 30.
Research and development expenditure Internally-funded development expenditure is capitalised when criteria are met and is written off over the forecast period of sales resulting from the development.
Management decides on the adequacy of future demand and the potential market for such new products in order to justify capitalisation of internally-funded development expenditure.
These can be difficult to determine when dealing with innovative technologies.
Actual product sales may differ from these estimates.
Tax In determining the Groups provisions for income tax and deferred tax, it is necessary to assess the likelihood and timing of recovery of tax losses created, and to consider transactions in a small number of key tax jurisdictions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
To the extent that the final outcome differs from the tax that has been provided, adjustments will be made to income tax and deferred tax provisions held in the period the determination is made.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67
