If you have any queries regarding your shareholding, including dividend payments and change of address nocaons, please contact Equini, either in wring at the address shown on the net page, by telephone on 0871 384 2021 or online at hps: help.
co. uk from here, if you need further assistance, you will be able to email Equini securely.
Equini also oers Shareview, a free of charge service enabling you to access and maintain your shareholding online.
Through Shareview, you can register for electronic communicaons, see details of balance movements and complete certain amendments online, such as changes to dividend mandate instrucons.
To take advantage of Shareview, register online at www.
co. uk, click on Register and follow the steps.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, ecluding Bank Holidays.
Calls to 0871 numbers are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony provider costs may vary.
D If you would like to have your dividend paid directly into a h bank or building society account, please contact Equini or complete the dividend mandate aached to your dividend cheque.
The associated ta voucher will sll be sent to your registered address.
If you live outside the h, Equini oers a global payments service which is available in certain countries and could enable you to receive your dividends direct into your bank account in your local currency.
Further details can be obtained direct from Equini or online at www.
C Starng from the September 2012 proposed dividend payment, shareholders who have dividends paid direct into a bank or building society account will receive a Consolidated Ta Voucher CTV.
A CTV is a ta voucher which details all dividends paid for the year.
hnder this process, a shareholders dividend is paid direct to their bank account each me a dividend is paid and once a year they receive a ta voucher detailing all dividends paid for that year.
Shareholders who would prefer to connue receiving ta vouchers with each dividend payment can write to Equini Registrars to request this.
E QineQ has taken full advantage of changes brought about by the Companies Act 2006 which recognises the growing importance of electronic communicaons and allows companies to provide documentaon and communicaons to shareholders via their websites ecept to those who have specically elected to receive a paper copy.
The wider use of electronic communicaons enables fast receipt of documents, reduces the Companys prinng, paper and postal costs and reduces the Companys environmental impact.
Shareholders can register for electronic communicaons at www.
co. uk and may also cast their vote for the 2012 AGM online quickly and easily using the Sharevote service by vising www.
S' The Orr Mackintosh Foundaon operates a charity donaon scheme for shareholders with small numbers of shares which may be uneconomic to sell.
Details of the scheme are available from ShareGi registered charity no.
W Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment maers.
These are typically from overseas-based brokers who target h shareholders, oering to sell them what oen turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in hS or h investments.
These brokers can be very persistent and etremely persuasive.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Check that they are properly authorised by the Financial Services Authority by vising www.
uk fsaregister: Report the maer to the FSA by calling 0845 606 1234: If the calls persist, hang up.
Please note that, if you deal with an unauthorised rm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensaon Scheme.
108 YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
