Business review Corporate governance Financial statements 31.
Transactions with the MOD The MOD continues to own its Special Share in QinetiQ which conveys certain rights as set out in note 28.
Transactions between the Group and the MOD are disclosed as follows: Recovery of UK restructuring costs QinetiQ reached agreement with the UK MOD in March 2012 involving a payment to QinetiQ of 65m that was received after the year end in April 2012.
The agreement involves the discharging of the MOD from its accumulated liabilities for restructuring costs incurred in previous years, together with MOD agreement to changes in its Special Shareholder rights, and certain other operational issues.
Freehold land and buildings and surplus properties Under the terms of the Groups acquisition of part of the business and certain assets of DERA from the MOD on 1 July 2001, the MOD retained certain rights in respect of the freehold land and buildings transferred.
i Restrictions on transfer of title The title deeds of those properties with strategic assets see below include a clause that prevents their transfer without the approval of the MOD.
The MOD also has the right to purchase any strategic assets in certain circumstances.
ii Property clawback agreement The MOD retains an interest in future profits on disposal following a trigger event.
A trigger event includes the granting of planning permission for development and or change of use, and the disposition of any of the acquired land and buildings.
During the 12 years from 1 July 2001, following a trigger event, the MOD is entitled to clawback a proportion of the gain on each individual property transaction in excess of a 30% gain on a July 2001 professional valuation.
The proportion of the excess gain due to the MOD is based on a sliding scale that reduces over time from 50% to 9% and at 31 March 2012 stood at 16% 2011: 16%.
The July 2001 valuation was approximately 16% greater in aggregate than the consideration paid for the land and buildings on 1 July 2001.
Compliance Regime The Compliance Committee monitors the effective application of the Compliance Regime required by the MOD to maintain the position of QinetiQ as a supplier of independent and impartial scientific technical advice to the MOD and ensures that the required standards are met in trials involving human volunteers.
Strategic assets Under the Principal Agreement with the MOD, the QinetiQ controlled Group is not permitted without the written consent of the MOD, to: i dispose of or destroy all or any part of a strategic asset: or ii voluntarily undertake any closure of, or cease to provide a strategic capability by means of, all or any part of a strategic asset.
The net book value of assets identified as being strategic assets as at 31 March 2012 was 1.5m 31 March 2011: 3.8m.
Long-Term Partnering Agreement On 27 February 2003 QinetiQ Limited entered into a Long-Term Partnering Agreement to provide the Test and Evaluation T&E facilities and training support services to the MOD.
This is a 25-year contract with a total revenue value of up to 5.6bn, dependent on the level of usage by the MOD, under which QinetiQ Limited is committed to providing the T&E services with increasing efficiencies through cost saving and innovative service delivery.
Contingent liabilities and assets Subsidiary undertakings within the Group have given unsecured guarantees of 55.1m at 31 March 2012 31 March 2011: 56.7m in the ordinary course of business.
The Group is aware of claims and potential claims by, or on behalf of, current and former employees, including former employees of the MOD and DERA and contractors, in respect of intellectual property, employment rights and industrial illness and injury, which involve or may involve legal proceedings against the Group.
The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to legal advice received, and the Groups insurance arrangements and provisions carried in the balance sheet, that it is unlikely that these matters will, in aggregate, have a material effect on the Groups financial position, results of operations and liquidity.
The Group has not recognised contingent amounts receivable relating to the Chertsey property which was disposed of during 2004 or the Fort Halstead property disposed of in September 2005.
Additional consideration, subject to clawback to the MOD pursuant to the arrangements referred to in note 31, is potentially due on the purchasers obtaining additional planning consents, with the quantum dependent on the scope of the consent achieved.
The Group has also not recognised contingent amounts receivable relating to property impairments in prior years that may potentially be recovered from the MOD.
Recovery is subject to future negotiations.
It is not considered practicable to calculate the value of this contingent asset.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 101
