Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Segmental information Segmental information is presented according to the Groups management structure and the markets in which it operates.
Segmental results represent the contribution of the different segments to the profit of the Group.
Corporate expenses are allocated to the corresponding segments.
Unallocated items mainly comprise acquisition amortisation, specific non-recurring items, net finance expense and taxation.
Specific non-recurring items are referred to in note 4.
Eliminations represent inter-company trading between the different segments.
Segmental assets and liabilities information is not regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker.
Research and development expenditure Research and development costs incurred on behalf of a customer as part of a specific project are directly chargeable to the customer on whose behalf the work is undertaken.
These costs are recognised within operating costs and revenue is recognised in respect of the R&D services performed.
Internally funded development expenditure is capitalised in the balance sheet where there is a clearly defined project, the expenditures are separately identifiable, the project is technically and commercially feasible, all costs are recoverable by future revenue and the resources are committed to complete the project.
Such capitalised costs are amortised over the forecast period of sales resulting from the development.
All other research and development costs are expensed to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
If the research phase cannot be clearly distinguished from the development phase, the respective project-related costs are treated as if they were incurred in the research phase only and expensed.
Financing Financing represents the financial expense on borrowings accounted for using the effective rate method and the financial income earned on funds invested.
Exchange differences on financial assets and liabilities and the income or expense from interest hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement are included within finance income and finance expense.
Taxation The taxation charge is based on the taxable profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Current tax and deferred tax are charged or credited to the income statement, except where they relate to items charged or credited to equity, in which case the relevant tax is charged or credited to equity.
Deferred taxation is the tax attributable to the temporary differences that appear when taxation authorities recognise and measure assets and liabilities with rules that differ from those of the consolidated financial statements.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Any changes in the tax rates are recognised in the income statement unless related to items directly recognised in equity.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised on all taxable temporary differences excluding non-deductible goodwill.
Deferred tax assets are recognised on all deductible temporary differences provided that it is probable that future taxable income will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only where there is a legally enforceable right to offset and there is an intention to settle balances on a net basis.
Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
The Group measures goodwill as the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred, including the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree, less the net of the acquisition-date fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including contingent liabilities as required by IFRS 3.
Consideration transferred includes the fair values of assets transferred, liabilities incurred by the Group to the previous owners of the acquiree, equity interests issued by the Group to the previous owners of the acquiree, equity interests issued by the Group, contingent consideration and share-based payment awards of the acquiree that are replaced in the business combination.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of contingent consideration that is not classified as equity are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
If a business combination relates to the termination of pre-existing relationships between the Group and the acquiree, then the lower of the termination amount, as contained in the agreement, and the value of the off-market element, is deducted from the consideration transferred and recognised in other expenses.
Transaction costs that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination, such as finders fees, legal fees, due diligence fees, and other professional fees and consulting fees, are expensed as incurred.
Non-controlling interests are measured either at the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised or at fair value.
The method used is determined on an  basis.
Goodwill Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates is included in the carrying value of equity accounted investments.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill related to the entity sold.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63
