& Y Y ' t eeing the first real signs of YineYs success in transforming its h business was ery sasfying.
Our h operaons started their change programme earlier than those in the h, so its no surprise that they are showing signs of recoery sooner, but the h restructuring is now complete and its The My Contribuon producity good to see a strong team shaping up under The goal of building a more compee, programme completed its second year, the new President of h erices.
Both our customer-focused culture began with with more than 9,000 proposed projects: h and h businesses are seeing improed a leaning out of processes and a widethese included h and global iniaes, leels of customer sasfacon, which has ranging upgrade in leadership to ensure such as a Group-wide IT procurement to be the single most important proof.
eery business has clear end-to-end deal with potenal benets of 1.5m: and accountability.
At the same me, measures t The creaon of an elected Employee to engage employees directly in raising YY Engagement Group EEG to gie all producity and customer sasfacon Its about understanding which parts of the h employees a oice in the Company.
were underpinned by the My Contribuon company are making money, and which In March 2012, the MOD recognised programme and widespread commercial hae been losing it.
We know we hae a YineYs progress when it agreed to change ery strong core in YineY businesses training.
These changes were implemented its pecial hareholder rights, so that the which account for around 90% of our in the h during the first 12 months of the Group can operate more compeely reenue.
Most of them fall within our h self-help programme and remoed 50m and commercially.
These changes, which and h erices diisions where our from the cost base.
imilar steps followed in peoples technological know-how helps are subject to shareholder approal at the the h during the past 12 months, when h create deep customer relaonships.
The Groups AGM, will help modernise YineY erices was integrated, reducing indirect profits and cash ows of these businesses through the remoal of the MODs right costs by h 25m.
are relaely stable: the challenge is that to eto any transacon or acity and the Customer sasfacon a key goal of the many of these businesses operate in the introducon of a less onerous compliance transformaon programme connues defence market and, at the moment, system.
The material shareholder to rise strongly in both the h and the h. thats facing seere budgetary pressures.
In those circumstances our first task is to YineYs sasfacon ranking with the retain our market share, and then to use h MOD improed from 17th to 3rd our strength to grow further.
posion oerall, and in the h, NA A performance scores ran at well oer 90% t YY throughout the year on both new and established contracts.
We now hae an organisaon that pecic progress during the year included: enables our managers to do just that manage.
Wee re-organised YineY An 8 percentage point rise in competed into disnct separate businesses, each win rates in the h, and the creaon of of which represents one of our key areas a centralised proposal funcon in h of capability.
These businesses are led by erices, increasing the number and the net generaon of YineY leaders.
quality of bids: h h Theyre totally accountable for their own reenue, profitability, cash and customer relaonships.
They can both reward ecellent performance and take acon.
We also hae My Contribuon, which empowers all our employees to come up with ideas to drie producity, either by increasing sales or reducing costs.
o we hae begun to transform the culture: but in my eperience, it is an ongoing journey.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
