Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued For defined benefit plans, the actuarial cost charged to the income statement consists of current service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets and past service cost.
The finance element of the pension charge is shown in finance income and expenses and the remaining service cost element is charged as a component of employee costs in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in full through the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the Income Statement as incurred.
Share-based payments The Group operates share-based payment arrangements with employees.
The fair value of equity-settled awards for share-based payments is determined on grant and expensed straight line over the period from grant to the date of earliest unconditional exercise.
The fair value of cash-settled awards for share-based payments is determined each period end until they are exercised or lapse.
The value is expensed straight line over the period from grant to the date of earliest unconditional exercise.
The charges for both equity and cash-settled share-based payments are updated annually for non-market-based vesting conditions.
Share capital Ordinary share capital of the Company is recorded as the proceeds received, less issue costs.
Company shares held by the employee benefit trusts are held at the consideration paid.
They are classified as own shares within equity.
Any gain or loss on the purchase, sale or issue of Company shares is recorded in equity.
Restatement of prior periods for finalisation of fair values arising on acquisitions The fair values of the net assets of acquired businesses are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
All fair value adjustments are recorded with effect from the date of acquisition and, consequently, may result in the restatement of previously reported financial results.
Recent accounting developments The following EU-endorsed amendments, improvements and interpretations of published standards are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2011 and have been adopted with no material impact on the Groups financial statements: IAS 24 revised, Related Party Disclosures.
The changes introduced by the standard relate mainly to the related party disclosure requirements for government-related entities, and the definition of a related party.
The change has been applied prospectively.
Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement.
The amendment to IFRIC 14 removes unintended consequences arising from the treatment of prepayments when there is a minimum funding requirement MFR.
The amendment results in prepayments of contributions in certain circumstances being recognised as an asset rather than an expense.
The improvements are included in the list below.
These consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the revised disclosure requirements.
IFRS 3, Business Combinations: IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of IFRS: IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures: IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements: IAS 34, Interim Financial Reporting: IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: and IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the following revised, amended and improved published standards and interpretations, which were in issue at the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, will have no material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group when they become applicable in future periods: IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures: IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of IFRS, subject to EU endorsement: IAS 12, Income Taxes, subject to EU endorsement: IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, subject to EU endorsement: IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, subject to EU endorsement: IAS 28, Investment in associates, subject to EU endorsement: and IAS 32, Financial instruments: presentation, subject to EU endorsement.
66 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
