& y hd s K&& Z d d D Ed KEd Eh d KW YY Y Y t ' hort term growth is impacted by the market in which we operate and our markets are unseled.
Gien the deep eperse of our people and our good track The net phase will connue the disciplines record of deliery, howeer, YineYs core By focusing on cash generaon throughout established during the self-help programme, businesses should be able to gain market the business lifecycle, working capital has including performance improement, share when defence budgets stabilise.
been reduced by more than 200m since balance sheet strength and high cash Oer the medium term, well manage the 31 March 2009.
Net debt has been drien conersion.
Customer sasfacon and the rest of the Group as a alue pipeline down by more than 400m, from 537.9m ecellent engagement of employees will be in other words, a range of new oerings in to 122.2m, and the gearing rao has fallen key internal metrics.
arious stages of deelopment or business from 2.5 to 0.5.
ome of them will eentually Building on the detailed understanding graduate to epand our core: others may foundaon for the future and enables acquired in phase one, the Group will not proe able to nd economically iable selece inestment in medium-term manage its porolio acely by inesng business models.
YineY is not short growth opportunies.
in organic growth supplemented, where of innoaon: for us, the challenge is to pecic progress during the year included: appropriate, by partnerships, alliances and nd ways to turn raw know-how and selece acquisions to delier the strategy technology into commercial businesses.
A package of measures to stabilise the and diersify risk.
This will enable mature omemes the best way to do this is h dened benefit pension scheme, core businesses to win market share and to eploit it ourseles: somemes we including the selecon of CPI as the eplore adjacent markets, while nurturing elect to sell the patent: somemes we inaon inde which reduced its deficit a select number of newer capabilies to retain ownership of the IP and soware by 141.4m.
The year end IA 19 pre-ta determine whether their business models but outsource manufacture, sales and deficit fell to 31.5m 30 eptember 2011: are scalable.
Each opportunity that emerges distribuon in order to reduce our risk.
228.1m: 31 March 2011: 124.6m The key is to hae a disciplined process that will be managed through a disciplined as a result of this change and a 40m enables you to work out the best route to process to idenfy and epand those which cash injecon: market for each idea, or else the best point can generate sustainable returns, or to An agreement with the MOD, which in its deelopment to crystallise its alue.
target the best point at which to crystallise discharges the h Goernment from its their alue.
Through an Organic-Plus t accumulated liabilies for raonalisaon approach, YineY will build out its core YY costs incurred in preious years, the as a leading technology-based soluons Our challenge is to connue to eole our net result of which was a 65m, one-o Group, and will apply the innoaon and business oerings to compete successfully payment to YineY, receied aer the capabilies of its people in targeted sectors.
in the changing defence markets of the year end.
This seles liabilies which h and h, while also diersifying our The strength of the balance sheet will be would otherwise be epected to be porolio by nding new sectors in which applied to inestment choices, with an recoered through reenue rates oer to apply our innoaon and eperse.
increased capacity for capital ependiture approimately ten years: and I beliee, by using a rigorous combinaon and internal research and deelopment of inestment, partnerships and, where The elecon to make early repayment of for the 2013 financial year and a rigorous appropriate, some selece acquisions, h 177m priate placement debt which process for priorising resources and we can build out YineYs core into a will complete aer the year end.
KW eo Yuinn The wide-ranging changes of the past 24 K months hae created a leaner, er Group 24 May 2012 which is now focused on driing alue by growing its sustainable earnings.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
