Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and short-term deposits that are readily convertible into cash.
In the cash flow statement overdraft balances are included in cash and equivalents.
Current and non-current liabilities Current liabilities include amounts due within the normal operating cycle of the Group.
Interest-bearing current and non-current liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and then stated at amortised cost with any difference between the cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
Costs associated with the arrangement of bank facilities or the issue of loans are held net of the associated liability presented in the balance sheet.
Capitalised issue costs are released over the estimated life of the facility or instrument to which they relate using the effective interest rate method.
If it becomes clear that the facility or instrument will be redeemed early, the amortisation of the issue costs will be accelerated.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event which can be reliably estimated, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Where appropriate, provisions are determined by discounting the expected cash flows at the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The derecognition of a financial instrument takes place when the Group no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the financial instrument, when the instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised and thereafter held at fair value, being the market value for quoted instruments or valuation based on models and discounted cash flow calculations for unlisted instruments.
Fair value hedging Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges of currency risk or interest rate risk are recognised in the income statement.
The hedged item is held at fair value with respect to the hedged risk with any gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
Cash flow hedging Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as a cash flow hedge that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where a hedged item results in an asset or a liability, gains and losses previously recognised in equity are included in the cost of the asset or liability.
Gains and losses previously recognised in equity are removed and recognised in the income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction.
Leased assets Leases are classified as finance leases when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are held by the lessee.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present value of minimum lease payments and fair value at the inception of the lease.
Assets are then depreciated over the shorter of their useful economic lives or the lease term.
Obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges arising in future periods, are included under financial liabilities.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at period-end rates.
Any resulting exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
Gains and losses on designated forward foreign exchange hedging contracts are matched against the foreign exchange movements on the underlying transaction.
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in its functional currency.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures, including any related goodwill, are translated to sterling at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures are translated to sterling using the average rates of exchange during the period.
Exchange adjustments arising from the re-translation of the opening net investment and the results for the period to the period-end rate are taken directly to equity and reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Post-retirement benefits The Group provides both defined contribution and defined benefit pension arrangements.
The liabilities of the Group arising from defined benefit obligations, and the related current service cost, are determined using the projected unit credit method.
Valuations for accounting purposes are carried out half yearly for the largest plans and on a regular basis for other plans.
Actuarial advice is provided by external consultants.
For the funded defined benefit plans, the excess or deficit of the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation are recognised as an asset or a liability respectively.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65
