Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued contract, the significant risks and rewards of ownership is distinguished from a prefeasibility study in that some have been transferred to the customer and collection of of the information that would normally be determined in a prefeasibility study is instead obtained from the existing the sales price is reasonably assured.
These criteria are met when the gold leaves the mines smelt houses.
This information when combined with existing knowledge of the mineral property already being sales from gold contracts are subject to customer survey mined or developed allow the directors to conclude that more adjustment, sales are initially recorded on a provisional likely than not the group will obtain future economic benefit basis using the groups best estimate of the contained from the expenditures.
Costs relating to property acquisitions metal.
Subsequent adjustments are recorded in revenue to take into account final assay and weight certicates are capitalised within development costs.
Dividend distribution from the renery, if different from the initial certicates.
Dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is The differences between the estimated and actual recognised as a liability in the groups financial statements contained gold have historically not been significant.
in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Losses on matured hedges are included within revenue board of directors and declared to shareholders.
as these pertain to losses incurred as gold hedges are Earnings per share settled and the actual price received see accounting Earnings per share are computed by dividing net income policy on derivatives.
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in Exploration and evaluation costs issue during the year.
The group expenses all exploration and evaluation Diluted earnings per share expenditures until the directors conclude that a future Diluted earnings per share are presented when the economic benefit is more likely than not of being realised, inclusion of potential ordinary shares has a dilutive effect ie probable.
While the criteria for concluding that an on earnings per share.
expenditure should be capitalised is always probable, the information that the directors use to make that determination 3.
Key accounting estimates and judgements depends on the level of exploration.
Some of the accounting policies require the application Exploration and evaluation expenditure on browneld of significant judgements and estimates by management sites, being those adjacent to mineral deposits which are in selecting the appropriate assumptions for calculating already being mined or developed, is expensed as incurred financial estimates or determining the appropriate until the directors are able to demonstrate that future accounting treatment for a transaction.
economic benets are probable through the completion of a By their nature, these judgements and estimates are prefeasibility study, after which the expenditure is capitalised subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and are based as a mine development cost.
A prefeasibility study consists on historical experience, terms of existing contracts, of a comprehensive study of the viability of a mineral project managements view on trends in the gold mining industry that has advanced to a stage where the mining method, in and information from outside sources.
the case of underground mining, or the pit conguration, in The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk the case of an open pit, has been established, and which, of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts if an effective method of mineral processing has been of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are determined, includes a financial analysis based on reasonable discussed below: assumptions of technical, engineering, operating economic TVA factors and the evaluation of other relevant factors.
The Included in trade and other receivables are taxation debtor prefeasibility study, when combined with existing knowledge receivables of US$119.7 million, consisting primarily of of the mineral property that is adjacent to mineral deposits recoverable VAT balances owing by the scal authorities that are already being mined or developed, allow the directors in Mali and the DRC.
In Mali the Tax on Value Added TVA to conclude that it is more likely than not that the group will owing is being offset against other tax owing to the State, obtain future economic benefit from the expenditures.
as allowed for in the relevant mining conventions.
profit Exploration and evaluation expenditure on greeneld sites, forecasts for the mine, using approved budgets and mine being those where the group does not have any mineral plans, supports recovery of the balance through such deposits which are already being mined or developed, is offsetting by 2015.
We are following the relevant process in expensed until such time as the directors have sufficient the DRC to recoup the VAT balances owing in that country.
information to determine that future economic benets are We are also continuing to engage with authorities in both probable, after which the expenditure is capitalised as a mine countries to accelerate the repayment of the outstanding development cost.
The information required by directors is VAT balances.
typically a feasibility study however a prefeasibility study may Corporation tax claims be deemed to be sufficient where the additional work required The group had received claims for various taxes from to prepare a feasibility study is not significant.
Exploration the State of Mali totalling US$86.2 million, in respect and evaluation expenditure relating to extensions of mineral of the Loulo, Gounkoto and Morila mines.
Having taken deposits which are already being mined or developed, professional advice, the group considers the claims to including expenditure on the denition of mineralisation of be wholly without merit or foundation and is strongly such mineral deposits, is capitalised as a mine development defending its position, including following the appropriate cost following the completion of an economic evaluation legal process for disputes within Mali.
The companies have equivalent to a prefeasibility study.
This economic evaluation legally binding mining conventions which guarantee scal Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 168 | stability, govern the taxes applicable to the companies be capitalised or expensed.
Management exercises this judgement based on the results of economic evaluations, and allow for international arbitration in the event a dispute prefeasibility or feasibility studies.
Costs are capitalised cannot be resolved in the country.
Management continues where those studies conclude that more likely than not to engage with the Malian authorities at the highest level to the group will obtain future economic benefit from the resolve this issue.
Future rehabilitation obligations Depreciation The net present value of current rehabilitation estimates There are several methods for calculating depreciation, have been discounted to their present value at 2.5% per ie the straight line method, the production method using annum 2011: 2.5% being the prevailing risk free interest ounces produced and the production method using tonnes rates.
Expenditure is expected to be incurred at the end of milled.
The directors believe that the tonnes milled method the respective mine lives.
The Morila rehabilitation estimate using proven and probable reserves is the best indication at 31 December 2012 includes the impact of the approved of plant and infrastructure usage.
tailings storage facility retreatment programme, which Stockpiles, gold in process and product extends the assets life and changes its cost prole.
For inventories further information, including the carrying amounts of the Costs that are incurred in or benefit the productive liabilities, refer to note 15.
A 1% decrease in the discount process are accumulated as stockpiles, gold in process rate on the groups rehabilitation estimates would result and product inventories.
Net realisable value tests are in an increase of US$6.6 million 2011: US$4.2 million performed at least annually and represent the estimated on the provision for environmental rehabilitation and future sales price of the product based on prevailing spot associated asset, and a decrease of US$0.4 million 2011: metals prices at the reporting date, less estimated costs to US$0.4 million on the statement of comprehensive income.
complete production and bring the product to sale.
Gold price assumptions Stockpiles are measured by estimating the number of The following gold prices were used in the mineral reserves tonnes added and removed from the stockpile, the number of contained gold ounces based on assay data, and the optimisation calculations: estimated recovery percentage based on the expected processing method.
Stockpile tonnages are veried by US$ oz 2012 2011 periodic surveys.
Morila 1 000 1 000 Carrying values of property, plant and Loulo: open pit 1 000 1 000 equipment and mineral properties Loulo: underground 1 000 1 000 The group assesses at each reporting period whether Tongon 1 000 1 000 there is any indication that these assets may be impaired.
If Kibali 1 000 1 000 such indication exists, the group estimates the recoverable Massawa 1 000 1 000 amount of the asset.
The recoverable amount is assessed Gounkoto 1 000 1 000 by reference to the higher of value in use being the net present value of expected future cash ows of the relevant cash generating unit and fair value less cost to sell.
Changes in the gold price used could result in changes The estimates used for impairment reviews are based on in the mineral reserve optimisation calculations.
Mine detailed mine plans and operating plans.
Future cash ows modelling is a complex process and hence it is not feasible are based on estimates of: to perform sensitivities on gold price assumptions.
Q Determination of ore reserves the quantities of the reserves and mineral resources for The group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources which there is a high degree of confidence in economic based on information compiled by competent persons extraction: Q future production levels: as dened in accordance with the Australasian Code for Q future commodity prices: Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the JORC code.
Q future cash cost of production, capital expenditure, Reserves determined in this way are used in the calculation close down, restoration and environmental clean-up: of depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, and Q as well as the assessment of the carrying value of mining future gold prices a gold price of US$1 300 was used for the current years impairment calculations 2011: assets.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves and assumptions that are valid at US$ 1 300. the time of estimation may change signicantly when new Post production open cast mine stripping information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast Following the adoption of IFRIC 20, the group capitalises prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs costs, associated with stripping activity, to expose the or recovery rates may change the economic status of ore body, within mining assets.
The group subsequently reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being depreciates the asset as that section of the ore body is restated.
For further information refer to annual resources mined.
This requires judgement over the eligible costs and reserves declaration on page 70 of this annual report.
and the relevant section of the ore block for depreciation.
Share-based payments Accounting for Gounkoto priority dividend Refer to note 18 for the key assumptions used in determining The group has recognised assets and liabilities associated the value of share-based payments.
with priority dividends to the State of Mali at Gounkoto, as Exploration and evaluation expenditure per its accounting policy.
The directors consider the asset The group has to apply judgement in determining to be recoverable based upon cash ows, profitability and whether exploration and evaluation expenditure should expectation of future dividends from Gounkoto.
