Operational risks KPI Impact Policies and systems Mitigation Risk: Sustained resource and exploration failure Resources and The groups mining Resources and reserves The group publishes its resources and reserves operations may yield committee.
Resources reserves calculations based on gold less gold under actual and reserves policy.
prices which are lower than the current production conditions Adherence to industry market prices.
Review at committee and than indicated by its standards.
board level of the gold price during the gold reserves gures, year as well as any changes to the cost which are estimates of production.
Close monitoring and based on a number of reconciliation of resource to mined ore on assumptions, including a continuous basis.
mining and recovery factors, production costs and gold price.
Risk: Environmental, health, safety and security incident No significant Failure to maintain Environmental, health, Formal safety system in place.
environmental, health safety and security Recording and certication of training.
Lost time injury and safety standards policies.
Environmental, Reporting procedures in place with frequency rates.
resulting in a significant health, safety and breaches reported to the executive environmental or safety security team.
committee if necessary on a weekly incident or deterioration Monitoring system of basis and quarterly reporting to the in safety incident rates incidents.
Leadership accountability for or deterioration in safety incidents throughout the group by setting performance standards of environmental, health and safety resulting in loss of life performance targets.
or significant loss of time and disruption or damage to operations.
Risk: Risks associated with underground mining Ore tonnes produced.
The groups underground Annual business plan.
Assistance with the underground Cost per tonne.
projects at the Loulo Monthly reporting.
operations from a third party mining mine in Mali and at Annual strategic review.
Close management by the Kibali mine in the executive team and monthly review of Democratic Republic performance against budget.
Board of Congo are subject review of actual performance against plan to the risks associated on a continuous basis.
with underground mining which may affect the profitability of the group.
