Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Nature of operations The company and its subsidiaries the group together with IASB as adopted by the European Union and in accordance its joint ventures carry out exploration and gold mining with Article 105 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Currently there are three operating mines in Mali, consolidated financial statements also comply with IFRS as West Africa: the Morila gold mine, which started production issued by the IASB, as is required as a result of our listing in October 2000, the Loulo gold mine, which started on NASDAQ in the US.
The differences between IFRS as production in November 2005 and the Gounkoto mine, adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the which began production in June 2011 together the LouloIASB have not had a material impact on the consolidated Gounkoto gold mine complex.
The group also operates financial statements for the years presented.
The a fourth mine in Cte dIvoire, Tongon, which started consolidated financial statements have been prepared under production in December 2010.
Randgold has a portfolio of the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation exploration projects in West and Central Africa.
The group of available-for-sale financial assets, and certain financial also holds an effective interest of 45% in Kibali Goldmines assets and financial liabilities which are carried at fair value.
SPRL Kibali, the holder of the Kibali gold project in the The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Democratic Republic of Congo following the acquisition by IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
the company of a joint venture interest in Moto Goldmines It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the Limited Moto in 2009, in conjunction with AngloGold process of applying the companys accounting policies.
Socit Minire fide Kilo-Moto SARL SOKIMO areas involving a high degree of judgement or complexity, holds the remaining 10% in the Kibali project.
Development or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant at Kibali has progressed rapidly and is on schedule for first to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in gold production at the end of 2013. note 3.
The going concern basis has been adopted in The interests of the group in its operating mines are held preparing the financial statements.
The directors have no through Socit des Mines fide Morila SA Morila which reason to believe that the group and company will not be a owns the Morila mine, Socit des Mines fide Loulo SA going concern in the foreseeable future based on forecasts Loulo which owns the Loulo mine, Socit des Mines and available cash resources.
The viability of the company fide Tongon SA Tongon which owns the Tongon mine and and the group is supported by these financial statements.
Socit des Mines fide Gounkoto SA Gounkoto which owns The group and company has adopted the following the Gounkoto mine.
Randgold holds an effective 40% changes, standards and amendments to standards and interest in Morila, following the sale to AngloGold Ashanti interpretations which are effective for the first time this year.
Limited on 3 July 2000 of one-half of Randgolds subsidiary, The impact is shown below: Morila Limited.
Management of Morila Limited, the 80% Change in accounting policy - production phase shareholder of Morila SA, is effected through a joint venture stripping costs committee, with Randgold and AngloGold Ashanti each The group changed its accounting policy on stripping appointing one-half of the members of the committee.
From costs in the production-phase of opencast mining effective the date of acquisition, a subsidiary of AngloGold Ashanti, 1 January 2012.
As such, all eligible production-phase was the operator of Morila.
On 15 February 2008, Randgold deferred stripping the process of removing waste from a assumed responsibility for the operatorship.
Randgold surface mine in order to gain access to mineral deposits holds an effective 80% interest in Loulo and Gounkoto.
costs associated with a stripping campaign are capitalised The remaining 20% interest is held by the State of Mali.
and depreciated over the life of the relevant section of the Randgold is the operator of the Loulo and Gounkoto mines.
orebody on a tonnes milled basis.
This is in line with the Randgold holds an effective 89% interest in Tongon, 10% is recently issued IFRIC 20 which endeavours to standardise held by the State of Cte dIvoire while the remaining 1% is reporting across the mining industry, which the group held by a local Ivorian company.
Randgold is the operator adopted early following its recent endorsement by the of the Tongon mine.
The group has various exploration EU in 2012.
IFRIC 20 requires that, to the extent that the programmes ranging from substantial to early stage in the benefit from the stripping activity is realised in the form of Democratic Republic of Congo, Mali, Senegal, Burkina Faso inventory produced, the directly attributable costs of that and Cte dIvoire.
activity should be treated as ore stockpile inventory.
To the extent that the benefit is the improved access to ore, 2. significant accounting policies the directly attributable costs are treated as a non-current The principal accounting policies applied in the stripping activity asset.
All stripping costs incurred since preparation of these consolidated and company financial 1 January 2010 have been capitalised to the related asset statements are set out below.
These policies have been in the relevant year.
consistently applied to all the years presented, unless IFRIC 20 includes transitional provisions which permit the otherwise stated.
group to capitalise eligible costs incurred from the start of Basis of preparation the earliest period presented, which will be 1 January 2010 The consolidated financial statements of Randgold Resources Limited and its subsidiaries and joint ventures within US 20-F lings for 2012.
Total eligible productionhave been prepared in accordance with International Financial phase stripping costs of US$12.1 million were incurred Reporting Standards and Interpretations collectively IFRS in the fourth quarter of 2011, relating to the Yalea South issued by the International Accounting Standards Board pushback, and have now been capitalised.
