Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Nature of operations The company and its subsidiaries the group together with IASB as adopted by the European Union and in accordance its joint ventures carry out exploration and gold mining with Article 105 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Currently there are three operating mines in Mali, consolidated financial statements also comply with IFRS as West Africa: the Morila gold mine, which started production issued by the IASB, as is required as a result of our listing in October 2000, the Loulo gold mine, which started on NASDAQ in the US.
The differences between IFRS as production in November 2005 and the Gounkoto mine, adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the which began production in June 2011 together the LouloIASB have not had a material impact on the consolidated Gounkoto gold mine complex.
The group also operates financial statements for the years presented.
The a fourth mine in Cte dIvoire, Tongon, which started consolidated financial statements have been prepared under production in December 2010.
Randgold has a portfolio of the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation exploration projects in West and Central Africa.
The group of available-for-sale financial assets, and certain financial also holds an effective interest of 45% in Kibali Goldmines assets and financial liabilities which are carried at fair value.
SPRL Kibali, the holder of the Kibali gold project in the The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Democratic Republic of Congo following the acquisition by IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
the company of a joint venture interest in Moto Goldmines It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the Limited Moto in 2009, in conjunction with AngloGold process of applying the companys accounting policies.
Socit Minire fide Kilo-Moto SARL SOKIMO areas involving a high degree of judgement or complexity, holds the remaining 10% in the Kibali project.
Development or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant at Kibali has progressed rapidly and is on schedule for first to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in gold production at the end of 2013. note 3.
The going concern basis has been adopted in The interests of the group in its operating mines are held preparing the financial statements.
The directors have no through Socit des Mines fide Morila SA Morila which reason to believe that the group and company will not be a owns the Morila mine, Socit des Mines fide Loulo SA going concern in the foreseeable future based on forecasts Loulo which owns the Loulo mine, Socit des Mines and available cash resources.
The viability of the company fide Tongon SA Tongon which owns the Tongon mine and and the group is supported by these financial statements.
Socit des Mines fide Gounkoto SA Gounkoto which owns The group and company has adopted the following the Gounkoto mine.
Randgold holds an effective 40% changes, standards and amendments to standards and interest in Morila, following the sale to AngloGold Ashanti interpretations which are effective for the first time this year.
Limited on 3 July 2000 of one-half of Randgolds subsidiary, The impact is shown below: Morila Limited.
Management of Morila Limited, the 80% Change in accounting policy - production phase shareholder of Morila SA, is effected through a joint venture stripping costs committee, with Randgold and AngloGold Ashanti each The group changed its accounting policy on stripping appointing one-half of the members of the committee.
From costs in the production-phase of opencast mining effective the date of acquisition, a subsidiary of AngloGold Ashanti, 1 January 2012.
As such, all eligible production-phase was the operator of Morila.
On 15 February 2008, Randgold deferred stripping the process of removing waste from a assumed responsibility for the operatorship.
Randgold surface mine in order to gain access to mineral deposits holds an effective 80% interest in Loulo and Gounkoto.
costs associated with a stripping campaign are capitalised The remaining 20% interest is held by the State of Mali.
and depreciated over the life of the relevant section of the Randgold is the operator of the Loulo and Gounkoto mines.
orebody on a tonnes milled basis.
This is in line with the Randgold holds an effective 89% interest in Tongon, 10% is recently issued IFRIC 20 which endeavours to standardise held by the State of Cte dIvoire while the remaining 1% is reporting across the mining industry, which the group held by a local Ivorian company.
Randgold is the operator adopted early following its recent endorsement by the of the Tongon mine.
The group has various exploration EU in 2012.
IFRIC 20 requires that, to the extent that the programmes ranging from substantial to early stage in the benefit from the stripping activity is realised in the form of Democratic Republic of Congo, Mali, Senegal, Burkina Faso inventory produced, the directly attributable costs of that and Cte dIvoire.
activity should be treated as ore stockpile inventory.
To the extent that the benefit is the improved access to ore, 2. significant accounting policies the directly attributable costs are treated as a non-current The principal accounting policies applied in the stripping activity asset.
All stripping costs incurred since preparation of these consolidated and company financial 1 January 2010 have been capitalised to the related asset statements are set out below.
These policies have been in the relevant year.
consistently applied to all the years presented, unless IFRIC 20 includes transitional provisions which permit the otherwise stated.
group to capitalise eligible costs incurred from the start of Basis of preparation the earliest period presented, which will be 1 January 2010 The consolidated financial statements of Randgold Resources Limited and its subsidiaries and joint ventures within US 20-F lings for 2012.
Total eligible productionhave been prepared in accordance with International Financial phase stripping costs of US$12.1 million were incurred Reporting Standards and Interpretations collectively IFRS in the fourth quarter of 2011, relating to the Yalea South issued by the International Accounting Standards Board pushback, and have now been capitalised.
Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 161 | Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The capitalised stripping costs have been depreciated on a unit of production basis, over the expected useful life of the Yalea orebody and depreciation began in July 2012, in line with the mine plan.
No other production-phase stripping costs were incurred between 1 January 2010 and 30 September 2011 and therefore no third statement of financial position as at 1 January 2011 is presented.
Loulo and therefore the Loulo-Gounkoto complex as well was the only mine affected by the restatement which applies only to comparative gures and related to the fourth quarter of 2011.
In line with IFRIC 20, the companys 2012 results now include a restatement of the 2011 year as shown below: Impact of IFRIC 20 12 months ended US$000 31 Dec 2011 Income statement Decrease in mine production costs 12 100 Increase in income tax expenses 3 630 Increase in net profit 8 470 Statement of financial position Increase in retained earnings 6 776 Increase in non-controlling interests 1 694 12 100 Increase in property, plant and equipment Increase in deferred tax 3 630 Earnings per share Increase in basic earnings per share cents per share 7 Increase in fully diluted earnings per share cents per share 7 The net cash ow effect was nil, having increased net cash generated from operating activities by US$12.1 million and having increased net cash used by investment activities by US$12.1 million.
Details of non-GAAP measures affected by the restatement are provided on page 190 of this annual report.
The group and company have adopted the following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations which are effective for the first time this year.
The impact is shown below: Effective period commencing on Impact on or after group Q IFRS 7 Amendment Transfer of Financial Asset 1 July 2011 No Q Amendment Severe hyperination and removal of xed dates IFRS 1 1 July 2011 No Q IAS 12 Amendment Recovery of Underlying Assets 1 January 2012 No Q IFRIC 20 Interpretation Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine 1 July 2013 Yes The group has chosen to early adopt IFRIC 20 and is permitted to do so.
Details of the restatement of comparative results associated with the early adoption are detailed above.
Certain new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the groups accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2013 or later periods to which the group has decided not to adopt early when early adoption is available.
These are: Effective period commencing on or after Q IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income 1 July 2012 Q IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2013 Q IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2013 Q IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2013 Q IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 Q IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2013 Q IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2013 Q IAS 19 Employee Benets 1 January 2013 Q IFRS 7 Amendment Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2013 Q IFRS 1 Amendment Government Loans 1 January 2013 Q Improvements to IFRS 2009-2011 Cycle 1 January 2013 Q IFRS 10, 11 and 12 Amendments Transition Guidance 1 January 2013 Q IAS 32 Amendment Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014 Q IFRS 10,12 and IAS 27 Amendments Investment Entities 1 January 2014 Q IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2015 Not yet endorsed by the European Union.
Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 162 | The company and group are currently assessing the impact the companys proportionate share in joint ventures using of these standards on the financial statements.
Those uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other events in similar circumstances.
anticipated being of signicance to the company and group are as follows: Subsidiaries Q IFRS 11: The principle in IFRS 11 is that a party to a Subsidiaries are entities over which the group has the power joint arrangement recognises its rights and obligations to govern the financial and operating policies, generally arising from the arrangement rather than focusing on accompanying an interest of more than one-half of the the legal form.
The application of the principle results in voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the the following: date on which control is transferred to the group.
They Where the parties have rights to the assets are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The and obligations for the liabilities relating to the purchase method of accounting is used to account for the arrangement, they are parties to joint operations.
acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
The cost of an A joint operator accounts for assets, liabilities and acquisition is measured at the fair value of the assets given, corresponding revenues and expenses arising equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed from the arrangement.
Where the parties have rights to the net assets of Identiable assets acquired including mineral property the arrangement, they are parties to a joint venture.
interests and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a A joint venturer accounts for an investment in business combination are measured initially at their fair values the arrangement using the equity method under at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any nonIAS 28 Investments in Associates.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over There will no longer be an option to use proportionate the fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets consolidation, which is the groups current accounting acquired is recorded as goodwill or other identiable intangible policy and this will give rise to a significant change assets.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of in the presentation of the groups financial results.
the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is With effect from reporting periods starting 1 January recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
2013, the groups share of joint ventures will be Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains accounted for using the equity method rather than on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
proportionately consolidated, from the beginning of Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction the earliest period presented 1 January 2011.
The groups share of its joint ventures will be disclosed as provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
a single line item as investments in equity accounted Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed joint ventures on the consolidated statement of where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies financial position measured at the aggregate of the adopted by the group.
carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities that Joint ventures had previously proportionately consolidated, with Joint ventures are those entities in which the group holds the movement in its share of the net assets being a long term interest and which are jointly controlled by accounted for in the statement of comprehensive the group and one or more joint venture partners under a income as share of the post tax profits losses of contractual arrangement.
In the consolidated The groups interest in such jointly controlled entities is cash ow statement, the groups cash ows from the accounted for by proportionate consolidation.
Under this joint ventures will be disclosed separately.
method the group includes its share of the joint ventures Ref er to note 11 for details of the investments in joint individual income and expenses, assets and liabilities and ventures.
cash ows on a line by line basis with similar items in the Q IFRS 12: The new standard amends disclosures groups financial statements.
Inter-company accounts and regarding interests in other entities including subsidiaries, transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
joint arrangements, associates and unconsolidated The group recognises the portion of gains or losses on structured entities.
The disclosures are intended to help the sale of assets by the group to the joint venture that is users understand the judgements and assumptions attributable to the other joint venture partners.
The group made by a reporting entity when deciding how to does not recognise its share of profits or losses from the classify its involvement with another entity: help users joint venture that result from the purchase of assets by the understand the interest that non-controlling interests group from the joint venture until it resells the assets to an have in consolidated entities: and help users assess independent party.
However, if a loss on the transaction the nature of the risks associated with interests in other provides evidence of a reduction in the net realisable entities.
value of current assets or an impairment loss, the loss is The group anticipates changes to its disclosure as a recognised immediately.
The results of joint ventures are result of this standard and is currently assessing the included from the effective dates of acquisition and up to impact.
the effective dates of disposal.
Consolidation The consolidated financial information includes the The cost of a joint venture acquisition is measured at the financial statements of the company, its subsidiaries and fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 163 | Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Q assets and liabilities for each statement of financial Identiable assets acquired including mineral property position presented are translated at the closing rate at interests and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed the date of that statement of financial position: in a joint venture acquisition are measured initially at their Q income and expenses for each statement of comprehensive income are translated at average fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest.
The excess of the cost of exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill, prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case mineral properties or other identiable intangible assets.
income and expenses are translated at the rate on the If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the dates of the transactions : and Q net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is all resulting exchange differences are recognised recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive in other comprehensive income.
Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred.
exchange differences on translation of subsidiaries Investment in subsidiaries and joint ventures recognised in 2011 and 2012.
Investment in subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated Intangible assets at cost less any provisions for impairment in the financial Mineral properties statements of the company.
Dividends are accounted for Mineral properties acquired are recognised at fair value at when the company becomes entitled to receive them.
Mineral properties are recognised the disposal of an investment, the difference between the at fair value if acquired as part of a business combination, net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount is charged whereas they are recognised at cost if acquired as an asset.
or credited to the statement of comprehensive income.
Mineral properties are tested annually for impairment on the Segmental reporting same basis that property, plant and equipment are when An operating segment is a group of assets and operations there is an indication of impairment.
Mineral properties will engaged in performing mining or advanced exploration that be amortised on a units of production basis when the related are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of mine commences production.
Other parts of the business are aggregated Property, plant and equipment and treated as part of a corporate and exploration segment.
Undeveloped properties The group provides segmental information using the same Undeveloped properties upon which the group has not categories of information the groups chief operating decision performed sufficient exploration work to determine whether maker utilises.
The groups chief operating decision maker is significant mineralisation exists are carried at original considered by management to be the board of directors.
Where the directors consider that there The group has only one business segment, that of gold mining.
is little likelihood of the properties being exploited, or the Segment analysis is based on individual mining operations value of the exploitable rights has diminished below cost, and exploration projects that have a significant amount of an impairment is recorded.
capitalised expenditure or other xed assets.
Long-lived assets and mine development costs Foreign currency translation Long-lived assets including development costs and Functional and presentation currency mine plant facilities are initially recorded at cost.
Where Items included in the financial statements of each of the relevant the estimated cost of dismantling the asset and groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary remediating the site is included in the cost of property, economic environment in which the entity operates the plant and equipment, subsequently they are measured at functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
are presented in US dollars, which is also the functional Development costs and mine plant facilities relating to currency of the company and its significant subsidiaries.
existing and new mines are capitalised.
Development costs Transactions and balances consist primarily of direct expenditure incurred to establish Foreign currency transactions are translated into the relevant or expand productive capacity and are capitalised until functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at commercial levels of production are achieved, after which the date of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and the costs are amortised.
losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and Stripping costs from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary Pre-production stripping costs are included in long-lived assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are assets.
Refer to page 161 of this annual report for the recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in groups accounting policy in respect of post-production other income and other expenses.
phase stripping for open cast mining.
Group companies Short-lived assets The results and financial position of material group entities Short-lived assets including non-mining assets are shown none of which has the currency of a hyper-inationary at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
economy that have a functional currency different from the Depreciation and amortisation presentational currency are translated into the presentation Long-lived assets include mining properties, such as currency as follows: freehold land, metallurgical plant, tailings and raw water Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 164 | dams, power plant and mine infrastructure, as well as mine cost method using related production costs.
Depreciation and amortisation are gold inventories include all mining costs incurred up until charged over the life of the mine or over the remaining useful production of an ounce of gold such as milling costs, life of the asset, if shorter based on estimated ore tonnes mining costs and directly attributable mine general and administration costs but exclude transport costs, rening contained in proven and probable reserves, to reduce the costs and royalties.
Net realisable value is determined with cost to estimated residual values.
Proven and probable reference to current market prices.
Morila used a selective ore reserves reect estimated quantities of economically mining process and thus has a number of stockpile grade recoverable reserves, which can be recovered in the future categories although only marginal ore mineralised waste from known mineral deposits.
Total proven and probable are remaining at Morila.
Marginal ore is dened as ore reserves are used in the tonnes milled units of production below 1.4g t but greater than 1.0g t. Mineralised waste depreciation calculation.
Any changes to the expected is dened as greater than 0.7g t but less than 1.0g t. For life of the mine or asset are applied prospectively in Loulo, high grade open pit ore is dened as ore above calculating depreciation and amortisation charges.
Short- 3.5g t and medium grade is dened as ore above 1.2g t. lived assets which include motor vehicles, ofce equipment Low grade ore from Gara is classied as ore above 0.5g t, and computer equipment are depreciated over estimated while 0.7g t is used for Yalea.
For Loulo, Yalea material useful lives of between two to five years but limited to the less than 0.7g t is classied as mineralised waste and is remaining mine life.
Residual values and useful lives are not in inventory, while material less than 0.5g t from Gara reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each statement of is regarded as mineralised waste and is not in inventory.
Changes to the estimated residual At Gounkoto, ore is classied into full grade ore above values or useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
1.71g t, marginal ore above 1g t and mineralised waste Impairment between 0.7g t and 1.0g t. At Tongon, ore is classied into The carrying amount of the property, plant and equipment high grade ore above 4.0g t, medium grade above 2.0g t, of the group is compared to the recoverable amount of low grade above 0.9g t and mineralised waste is material the assets whenever events or changes in circumstances less than 0.9g t. All stockpile grades are currently being indicate that the net book value may not be recoverable.
processed and all ore is expected to be fully processed.
The recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and the The processing of ore in stockpiles occurs in accordance fair value less cost to sell.
In assessing the value in use, the with the life of mine processing plan that has been optimised expected future cash ows from the assets is determined based on the known mineral reserves, current plant capacity by applying a discount rate to the anticipated pre-tax future and mine design.
Ore tonnes contained in the stockpile cash ows.
The discount rate used reects risks specic which exceeds the annual tonnes to be milled as per the to the cash generating units.
Conservative gold price mine plan within the year, are classied as non-current in assumptions have been used as detailed on page 169 of the statement of financial position when relevant.
An impairment is recognised in the and materials consist of consumable stores and are valued statement of comprehensive income to the extent that the at weighted average cost after appropriate impairment of carrying amount exceeds the assets recoverable amount.
redundant and slow moving items.
Consumable stock The revised carrying amounts are amortised in line with for which the group has substantially all the risks and group accounting policies.
rewards of ownership are brought onto the statement of A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if the financial position as current assets.
recoverable amount increases as a result of a reversal of the Interest borrowing costs conditions that originally resulted in the impairment.
This Interest is recognised on a time proportion basis, taking reversal is recognised in the statement of comprehensive into account the principal outstanding and the effective rate income and is limited to the carrying amount that would have over the period to maturity.
Borrowing cost is expensed as been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment incurred except to the extent that it relates directly to the loss been recognised in prior years.
Assets are grouped at construction of property, plant and equipment during the the lowest levels for which there are separately identiable time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for cash ows cash-generating units for purposes of its intended use, when it is capitalised as part of property, assessing impairment.
The estimates of future discounted plant and equipment.
Borrowing cost is capitalised as part cash ows are subject to risks and uncertainties including of the cost of the asset where it is probable that the asset the future gold price, reserve and production estimates, will result in economic benefit and where the borrowing cost capital expenditure and cost estimates and are based on can be measured reliably.
No interest or borrowing costs the approved Life of Mine plans.
It is therefore reasonably have been capitalised during the year.
possible that changes could occur which may affect the Financial instruments recoverability of mining assets.
Financial instruments are measured as set out below.
Inventories Financial instruments carried on the statement of financial Inventories include ore stockpiles, gold in process and position include cash and cash equivalents, trade and supplies and spares and are stated at the lower of cost or other receivables, trade and other payables, borrowings, net realisable value.
The cost of ore stockpiles and gold available for sale financial assets, loans to and from produced is determined principally by the weighted average subsidiaries and joint ventures and loans to minorities.
Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 165 | Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Trade and other receivables costs is provided for in the financial statements and Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at capitalised within mining assets on initial recognition.
There is a rebuttable presumption that the Rehabilitation will generally occur on closure or after transaction price is fair value unless this could be refuted closure of a mine.
Initial recognition is at the time of by reference to market indicators.
Subsequently, trade and the disturbance occurring and thereafter as and when other receivables are measured at amortised cost using the additional disturbances take place.
The estimates are effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A reviewed annually to take into account the effects of ination provision for impairment of trade receivables is established and changes in estimates and are discounted using rates when there is objective evidence that the group will not be that reect the time value of money.
Annual increases in able to collect all amounts due according to the original the provision due to the unwinding of the discount are terms of receivables.
significant financial difficulties of the recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as a debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy finance cost.
The present value of additional disturbances or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency and changes in the estimate of the rehabilitation liability in payments are considered indicators that the trade are capitalised to mining assets against an increase in the receivable may be impaired.
The amount of the provision rehabilitation provision.
The present value of additional is the difference between the assets carrying amount disturbances and changes in the estimate of the and the present value of estimated future cash ows, rehabilitation liability are added to deducted from mining discounted at the effective interest rate.
The rehabilitation asset is amortised as noted provision is recognised in mining and processing costs in the statement of comprehensive income.
Rehabilitation projects undertaken, included Cash and cash equivalents in the estimates, are charged to the provision as incurred.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the statement of Environmental liabilities, other than rehabilitation costs, financial position at cost.
For the purpose of the cash ow which relate to liabilities arising from specic events, are statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on expensed when they are known, probable and may be hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short term reasonably estimated.
highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months Provisions or less at the date of purchase and bank overdrafts.
In Provisions are recognised when the group has a present the statement of financial position, bank overdrafts are legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events included in borrowings in current liabilities.
Deposits where it is probable that an outow of resources embodying which do not meet these criteria are classied separately economic benets will be required to settle the obligation, as restricted cash.
and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can Available-for-sale financial assets be made.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that Current tax are either designated in this category or not classied in Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial taxable income for the year calculated using rates and assets are designated on acquisition.
They are normally laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted included in current assets and are carried at fair value.
by the statement of financial position date.
It includes Where a decline in the fair value of an  for tax expected to be payable or recoverable sale financial asset constitutes objective evidence of impairment, the amount of the loss or the cumulative in respect of previous periods.
fair value reduction held within reserves is recognised Deferred taxation in the statement of comprehensive income within other Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on expenses, other movements in fair value are recognised temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets in other reserves within equity.
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated Borrowings financial statements.
However, if the temporary difference Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently transaction other than a business combination that at the time stated at amortised cost: any difference between the of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption or loss, it is not recognised.
Deferred tax is determined using value is recognised in the statement of comprehensive tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively income over the period of the borrowings using the effective enacted by the statement of financial position date and are interest method.
Borrowings are classied as current expected to apply when the temporary differences reverses.
liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the probable that future taxable profit will be available against statement of financial position date.
which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Accounts payable Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising Accounts payable and other short term monetary liabilities, on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Rehabilitation costs controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary The net present value of estimated future rehabilitation difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 166 | obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a Accounting for Gounkoto non-controlling constructive obligation.
interest priority dividends Following the conclusion of a new mining convention with Share-based payments The fair value of the employee services received in exchange the State of Mali in respect of the Gounkoto mine, a liability for the grant of options, restricted shares or participation payable to the non-controlling interest is being accrued within trade and other payables as profit arises, based in the groups Co-Investment Plan is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the upon 10% of profits of Socit des Mines fide Gounkoto vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value SA in accordance with the mining convention and mining of the options or restricted shares or awards granted under code.
An equivalent amount receivable is being recognised the Co-Investment Plan, as determined at the grant date: within trade and other receivables, as the priority dividend Q including any market performance conditions for is deducted from future dividend payments.
example, the correlation used between the HSBC Contingent liabilities Global Gold Index and the company TSR : and The group discloses contingent liabilities when possible Q obligations exist as a result of past events, unless the excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, possible outows of economic benets as a result of reserve growth targets and remaining an employee of the the past event are considered remote.
By their nature, contingencies will often only be resolved when one or more entity over a specified time period.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment of such about the number of options that are expected to become contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgement and estimates of the outcome of future events.
exercisable or the number of shares that the employee will ultimately receive.
This estimate is revised at each statement In certain circumstances, to provide transparency, the of financial position date and the difference is charged or group voluntarily elects to disclose information regarding claims for which any outow of economic benefit is credited to the statement of comprehensive income, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Share capital conditions are included in the fair value assumptions on Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs the grant date with no subsequent adjustment.
When the options are exercised, the company issues new shares.
directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable Employee benets transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Pension obligations The group has dened contribution plans.
A dened Transfers are made between other reserves and share contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group premium when options are exercised and shares vest.
Leases pays xed contributions into a separate entity.
The group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further Determining whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an assessment of whether fullment of the arrangement is pay all employees the benets relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
For dened contribution dependent on the use of a specic asset or assets and plans, the group pays contributions to publicly or privately whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Leases of plant and equipment where the group assumes administered provident funds on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The group has no further payment a significant portion of risks and rewards of ownership are obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The classied as a finance lease.
Finance leases are capitalised contributions are recognised as employee benefit expenses at the estimated present value of the underlying lease when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and the finance charges to achieve a constant rate as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
on the finance balance outstanding.
The interest portion Termination benets of the finance payment is charged to the statement of comprehensive income over the lease period.
The plant Termination benets are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever and equipment acquired under the finance lease are an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for depreciated over the useful lives of the assets, or over the lease term if shorter.
The group recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably committed to either: terminating Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards the employment of current employees according to a of ownership are retained by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination benets as a result of an offer made to are charged to the statement of comprehensive income on encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benets falling due more a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
than 12 months after statement of financial position date are Revenue recognition discounted to present value.
The company enters into contracts for the sale of gold.
profit-sharing and bonus plans Revenue arising from gold sales under these contracts is The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses.
recognised when the price is determinable, the product The group recognises a provision where contractually has been delivered in accordance with the terms of the Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 167 |
