Statement of directors responsibilities and approval of the annual financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the annual financial statements in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The directors are also required to prepare financial statements and committees of the board.
The directors believe that all for the group in accordance with International Financial representations made to the independent auditors during their Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
audit were valid and appropriate.
BDO LLPs audit report is The directors have chosen to prepare financial statements presented on page 155 of this annual report.
for the company in accordance with IFRS.
The directors have also chosen to prepare the financial statements for the The maintenance and integrity of the companys website is group in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International the responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by Accounting Standards Board IASB.
the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any The directors are responsible for the maintenance of proper changes that may have occurred to the report since it was accounting records and the preparation, integrity and fair initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Jersey and the presentation of the financial statements of Randgold Resources United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination Limited company and its subsidiaries and joint ventures of the financial information may differ from other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement pursuant to The directors also prepared the other information included in DTR4 the annual report and are responsible for both its accuracy and The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: its consistency with the financial statements.
Q The financial statements, presented on pages 156 to 191, have been prepared in accordance with International The directors also have general responsibility for selecting Financial Reporting Statements as endorsed by the suitable accounting policies and applying them consistently, European Union, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the and for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to requirements of Companies Jersey Law 1991 and give a safeguard the assets of the group and prevent and detect fraud true and fair view of the profit of the group for the year ended and other irregularities.
The going concern basis has been 31 December 2012 and of the assets, liabilities, financial adopted in preparing the financial statements.
The directors position of the group and parent company as at have no reason to believe that the group and company will not 31 December 2012. be a going concern in the foreseeable future based on forecasts Q The annual report includes a fair review of the development and available cash resources.
The viability of the company and and performance of the business and the financial position the group is supported by the financial statements.
of the group and the parent company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that The financial statements have been audited by the independent they face.
accounting rm, BDO LLP, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including The financial statements were approved by the board of minutes of all meetings of shareholders, the board of directors directors on 14 March 2013 and are signed on its behalf by: Mark Bristow Philippe Litard Chief executive Chairman 154 Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources |
