FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS or complexity, where assumptions and estimates are significant 1 General information and to the consolidated financial statements, are set out below.
accounting policies a Estimated impairment of goodwill, intangible assets General information and property, plant and equipment The Rank Group Plc the Company and its subsidiaries The Group tests annually whether assets that have an together the Group operate gaming and betting services in indefinite useful life, including goodwill and gaming licences, Great Britain including the Channel Islands, Spain, Belgium have suffered any impairment.
The Group also reviews assets and Malta and provide business services to a gaming operator that are subject to amortisation or depreciation for events or in a number of additional markets.
changes in circumstances that indicate the carrying amount The Company is a public limited company which is listed on of the asset may not be recoverable.
Further details of the Groups accounting policy in relation to impairment are the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under registration number 03140769. disclosed in note 1.14.
The address of its registered office is Statesman House, The application of the policy requires the use of accounting Stafferton Way, Maidenhead, Berkshire, SL6 1AY.
estimates and judgements in determining the recoverable amount of cash-generating units to which the intangible On 21 October 2011, the Company changed its accounting reference date to 30 June by extending the current accounting assets and property, plant and equipment are associated.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs period to 18 months to cover the period from 1 January 2011 to 30 June 2012.
The comparative period covers the 12-month to sell and value in use.
Estimates of fair value less costs to sell are performed internally by experienced senior management period to 31 December 2010.
This change brings the Companys accounting reference date into line with its supported by knowledge of similar transactions and advice from external estate agents or, if applicable, offers received.
Value in use is calculated using estimated cash flow projections from financial budgets, discounted by selecting an appropriate Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of rate for each cash-generating unit.
Further details of the assumptions and estimates are disclosed in note 12. these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented.
b Classification of casino and other gaming licences 1.1 Basis of preparation as intangible assets with an indefinite life As disclosed in note 1.13 certain casino and other gaming The consolidated and Company financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
licences have been classified as intangible assets with an indefinite life.
This assumption is based on managements 1.1.
1 Statement of compliance belief that there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the licences are expected to generate net cash inflows The consolidated and Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting and that each licence holds a value outside the property in which it resides.
As a consequence, each licence is reviewed Standards IFRS and IFRIC Interpretations as adopted by the European Union, and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to annually for impairment.
c Recoverability of deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 1.1.
2 Going concern In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the probable future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The key area of consolidated financial statements, the directors have considered the issues impacting the Group during the period as detailed judgement is therefore an assessment of whether it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits against which any in the directors report on pages 3 to 55 and have reviewed the Groups projected compliance with its banking covenants deferred tax assets can be utilised.
Further details of deferred tax assets recognised are disclosed in note 20. detailed within the finance review on page 49.
Based on the Groups cash flow forecasts and operating budgets, and d Income taxes assuming that trading does not deteriorate considerably from current levels, the directors believe that the Group will generate The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions, including jurisdictions of now discontinued operations.
There sufficient cash to meet its borrowing requirements for at least the next 12 months and comply with its banking covenants.
are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
3 Accounting estimates and judgements for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final outcome of The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also these matters is different from the amount recognised, such differences will impact the financial statements in the period requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The resulting such determination is made.
Further details of income tax are disclosed in note 17. accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the actual results.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED e Provisions IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Offsetting Provisions are recognised in accordance with the policy Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments disclosed in note 1.11.
In calculating onerous property lease to IFRS7 Effective 1 January 2013 provisions, estimates are made of the discounted cash flows IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements Effective associated with the property and its associated operations 1 January 2013 including sub-let income.
Estimates have also been made in determining the amount and timing of disposal provisions, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Effective 1 January 2013 including legacy industrial disease and personal injury claims.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities Effective Further details of provisions made are disclosed in note 21.
1 January 2013 f Contingent assets and liabilities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Effective 1 January 2013 Management is required to apply judgement in assessing the probability of the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Amendments to IAS1 Effective 1 July 2012 Company.
This judgement is supported by external advice IAS 12 Income Taxes Amendment Deferred Taxes: and precedent case law where appropriate and is continually Recovery of Underlying Assets Effective 1 July 2012 assessed to ensure that developments are appropriately reflected in the financial statements.
Further details of contingent assets IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised Effective 1 January 2013 are disclosed in note 30 and contingent liabilities are disclosed in note 31.
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements Effective 1 January 2013 1.1.
4 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures a Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing Effective 1 January 2013 standards adopted by the Group The following new standards, amendments and interpretations IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting to existing standards are mandatory for the first time for the Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments financial period beginning 1 January 2011. to IAS32 Effective 1 January 2014 IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amendment It is not anticipated that the adoption of the above standards, amendments and interpretations will have a material impact IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification on the Group or Company financial statements in the period of Rights Issues Amendment of initial application.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes Determining the None of these standards, amendments or interpretations has fair value of credit awards been early adopted by the Group or Company.
IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Amendment 1.2 Consolidation Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with to govern the financial and operating policies, generally Equity Instruments accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights Improvements to IFRSs issued May 2010 that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered The Group has not been materially impacted by the adoption when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
of any of these standards, amendments or interpretations.
All subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated The Group has not early adopted any other standard, from the date that control ceases.
amendment or interpretation that was issued but is not yet effective.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
b Standards, amendments to and interpretations of Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction existing standards that are not yet effective provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The following standards, amendments to and interpretations Accounting policies as applied to subsidiaries have been of existing standards have been published and are mandatory changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012: policies adopted by the Group.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and The Group has no material associates or joint ventures.
Measurement Effective 1 January 2015 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendment Effective 1 July 2011 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.5 Segment reporting 1 General information and accounting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with policies continued the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible 1.3 Business combinations and goodwill for allocating resources and assessing performance of the Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition operating segments, has been identified as the management method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate team the composition of which is disclosed on page 58 of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date that makes strategic and operational decisions.
fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and 1.6 Foreign currency translation included in administrative expenses within exceptional items.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in UK Sterling, which is also the Companys functional currency.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer a Transactions and balances is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the which is deemed to be an asset or liability are recognised in transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change the settlement of such transactions and from the translation to other comprehensive income.
at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the income statement in finance costs or income, except when aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration deferred in equity where hedging criteria are met.
transferred over the fair value of the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange b Group companies for the business combination.
Identifiable intangible assets The results and financial position of all the Group companies are recognised separately from goodwill.
none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary If the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the economy that have a functional currency different from consideration transferred is lower than the fair value of the the presentation currency are translated into the presentation assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities in the business currency as follows: acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet date.
The 1.4 Revenue recognition closing Euro rate against UK Sterling was 1.24 2010: 1.17 Revenue consists of the fair value of sales of goods and services and the closing US Dollar rate against UK Sterling was 1.56 net of VAT, rebates and discounts.
2010: 1.57 : a Gaming win ii income and expenses for each income statement are Revenue for casinos includes the gaming win before deduction translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not of gaming duty.
Revenue for bingo is net of prizes and VAT a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the where applicable before deduction of gross profits tax.
rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income Revenue for Rank Interactive, including sports betting and and expenses are translated at the rates prevailing on the dates interactive games, represents gaming win.
The fair value of of the transactions.
The average Euro rate against UK Sterling free bets, promotions and customer bonuses are also deducted was 1.15 2010: 1.17 and the average US Dollar rate against from all revenue streams.
UK Sterling in the period was 1.60 2010: 1.54 : and Although disclosed as revenue, gaming win is accounted for iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a and meets the definition of a gain under IAS 39 Financial separate component of equity.
b Food and beverage Revenue from food and beverage sales is recognised at the point of sale.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the 1.8 Financial liabilities translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as borrowings and other currency instruments designated as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
borrowings, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
The Group determines the are recognised in the income statement, net of hedging, as part classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Groups financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings including bank overdrafts, 1.7 Financial assets and financial guarantee contracts.
Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans a Trade and other payables and receivables, held to maturity investments, available for Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and sale financial assets, or as derivatives designated as hedging subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
b Loans and borrowings After initial recognition at fair value, interest bearing loans A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost the cash flows from the asset have expired, been transferred using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are or an obligation to pay the cash flows received to a third recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are party without material delay has been assumed, and either: derecognised as well as through the effective interest rate Substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have method amortisation process.
been transferred: or Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any Substantially all the risks and rewards have neither been discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that retained nor transferred, but control has been transferred.
are an integral part of the effective interest rate method.
The effective interest rate method amortisation is included The Groups financial assets include loans and receivables in finance costs in the income statement.
and cash and cash equivalents.
c Financial guarantee contracts Company only a Loans and receivables Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company are Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in the holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor an active market.
They are included in current assets, when fails to make a payment when due in accordance with the the asset is expected to be realised in the normal operating terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantee contracts cycle, otherwise they are classified as non-current assets.
are initially measured at fair value by applying the estimated Loans and receivables are classified as other receivables in probability of default to the cash outflow should default the balance sheet.
occur and subsequently amortising over the expected length of the guarantee.
Other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective d Onerous contracts interest method, less provision for impairment.
Details of the policy in respect of onerous contracts are disclosed in note 1.11. b Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet include cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within loans and borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the 1 General information and accounting provision due to passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
policies continued a Onerous contracts 1.9 Derivative financial instruments and The Group is party to a number of leasehold property contracts.
hedging activities Provision has been made against those leases where the The Group held no derivative financial instruments at either property is now vacant and the unavoidable costs under the reporting date.
lease exceed the economic benefit expected to be derived from The Group used a loan as a hedge of its exposure to foreign potential sub-letting arrangements.
Provision has also been made against leases where impairment testing has indicated exchange risk on its investments in foreign subsidiaries.
The gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to that, after recognising an impairment charge, the estimated discounted cash flows derived from the property and its the effective portion of the hedge were recognised as other comprehensive income while any gains or losses relating to the associated operations are insufficient to cover the unavoidable lease costs and the lease is therefore deemed onerous.
ineffective portion were recognised in the income statement.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of b Provision on disposal any such gains or losses recorded in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Further details are disclosed in note 19.
Following the disposal of an operation, provision is made for the estimated future costs attributable to the disposal.
1.10 Leases c Provision for restructuring Leases are tested at inception to determine whether the lease is a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly.
For Once the Group is committed to the restructuring of an operation, provision is made for the unavoidable future leases entered into prior to 1 January 2005, inception is deemed to be 1 January 2005 in accordance with the transitional costs associated with the restructuring.
Property leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of buildings within a single contract are 1.12 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of split into their two component parts before testing.
Such cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of a Finance leases Leases of property, plant and equipment which transfer the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased property, plant and equipment or the can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial present value of minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to period in which they are incurred.
achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining Depreciation is calculated on assets using the straight line balance of the liability for each period.
The corresponding method to allocate their cost less residual values over their rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in loans estimated useful lives, as follows: and borrowings.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under freehold and leasehold 50 years or lease term if less finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life property of the asset or the lease term.
refurbishment of property 5 to 20 years b Operating leases fixtures, fittings, plant and 3 to 20 years Leases of property, plant and equipment which do not machinery transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are classified as operating leases.
Operating Land is not depreciated.
lease payments including any lease incentives or premiums Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each balance are recognised as an expense in the income statement on sheet date, and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
a straight line basis over the lease term.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised 1.11 Provisions upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on or constructive obligation as a result of past events if it is more derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
is included in the income statement.
Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the expenditures required to settle the obligation.
If the effect of the time value Pre-opening costs are expensed to the income statement of money is material, provisions are discounted using a pre-tax as incurred.
rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 96 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.13 Intangible assets 1.14 Impairment of intangible assets and property, a Goodwill plant and equipment Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
amortised cost as at 1 January 2004 plus cost for any acquisition An impairment loss is recognised as the amount by which completed after 1 January 2004 less accumulated impairment an assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold, except less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing where goodwill has been previously written off directly to impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which reserves under previous GAAP.
there are separately identifiable cash inflows cash-generating Goodwill is allocated to the relevant cash-generating unit or units.
The expected cash flows generated by the assets are group of cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment discounted using appropriate discount rates that reflect the testing.
A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable time value of money and risks associated with the groups group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely of assets.
independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups If an impairment loss is recognised, the carrying amount of of assets.
the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable Goodwill arising on acquisitions made before 31 December amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an exceptional 1997 has been written off directly to reserves.
expense in the income statement immediately.
Any impairment is allocated equally across all assets in a CGU b Casino and other gaming licences and concessions unless there is an indication that a class of assets should be The Group capitalises acquired casino and other gaming impaired in the first instance or a fair market value exists for licences and concessions.
The amount capitalised is the one or more assets.
Once an asset has been written down to difference between the price paid for a property or business its fair value less costs to sell then any remaining impairment and the associated licence or concession, and the fair value of is allocated equally amongst all other assets.
Casino licences a similar property or business without a licence or concession.
are generally not impaired as they have an indefinite life and Management believes that licences, with the exception of the a fair market value in excess of their carrying value.
two casino concessions in Belgium, have indefinite lives as there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the licences are expected to generate net cash inflows and each carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is licence holds a value outside the property in which it resides.
increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, Each licence is reviewed annually for impairment.
but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been In respect of the two casino concessions in Belgium, their determined had no impairment loss been recognised for carrying value is amortised over the expected useful life of the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised within Any costs in renewing licences or concessions are expensed exceptional items in the income statement immediately.
1.15 Employee benefit costs c Other a Pension obligations Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the The Group operates a defined contribution plan under basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the which the Group pays fixed contributions to a separate specific software.
These costs are amortised on a straight line entity.
The Group has no further payment obligations once basis over their estimated useful lives three to four years.
the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are Costs associated with maintaining computer software recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
The Group also has an unfunded pension commitment Costs that are directly associated with the production and relating to three former executives of the Group.
The amount development of identifiable and unique software products recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the commitment controlled by the Group, and that will probably generate is the present value of the obligation at the balance sheet date, economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are together with adjustment for actuarial gains or losses.
The recognised as intangible assets for both externally purchased Group recognises actuarial gains and losses immediately in and internally developed software.
Direct costs include the statement of comprehensive income.
The net cost arising specific employee costs for software development.
on the commitment is recognised in net finance costs.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives three to five years.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED c Share-based compensation Company 1 General information and accounting The Company operates share-based payment schemes for policies continued employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The fair value of shares awarded to employees of the Company are recognised b Share-based compensation as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees for equity.
The Company also makes awards of its own shares to awards granted after 7 November 2002 is measured by reference employees of its subsidiaries and as such recognises an increase to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
The in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the fair value is determined by using an appropriate pricing model, equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its further details of which are given in note 27. subsidiaries financial statements with the corresponding The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together credit being recognised directly in equity.
with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled.
d Bonus plans The Group recognises a liability in respect of the best estimate The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date of bonuses payable where contractually obliged to do so or where a past practice has created a constructive obligation.
reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments 1.16 Inventories that will ultimately vest.
The income statement expense or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost of inventory is determined on expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately The cost of finished goods comprises goods purchased vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which for resale.
are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other course of business.
When necessary, provision is made for performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are 1.17 Taxation modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if the terms had not been modified, if the original terms a Current tax Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior of the award are met.
An additional expense is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair value of the periods are measured as the amount expected to be paid or to be recovered from the taxation authorities.
The tax rates share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, by the reporting date.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not Current tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not the income statement.
yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within Management evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, subject to interpretation at each reporting date and establishes and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is provisions where appropriate.
granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in b Deferred tax the previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equity-settled Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on transaction awards are treated equally.
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, if deferred tax arises from the initial additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects The proceeds received net of any directly attributable neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal for.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that value and share premium when the options are exercised.
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 1.19 Discontinued operations and held for sale assets probable that future taxable profit will be available against Operations of the Group are recognised as discontinued which the temporary differences can be utilised.
operations if the operations have been disposed of or meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale and represents a Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations.
legally enforceable right to set off current taxation assets against Operations held for sale are held at the lower of their carrying current taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these amount on the dates they are classified as held for sale and fair on a net basis.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the c Sales tax sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
of sales tax except: 1.20 Dividends Where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or Dividends proposed by the board of directors and unpaid at the services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in period end are not recognised in the financial statements until which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of they have been approved by shareholders at the annual general acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
applicable: and 1.21 Exceptional items Receivables and payables that are stated with the amount The Group defines exceptional items as those items which, of sales tax included.
by their size or nature in relation to both the Group or The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, individual segments, are separately disclosed in order to give the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or a full understanding of the Groups financial performance payables in the balance sheet.
and aid comparability of the Groups result between periods.
1.18 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares as defined by IAS 32, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Segmental reporting a Segment information operating segments Grosvenor Casinos 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Continuing operations Revenue before adjustment for free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 379.2 238.6 Free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 2.5 1.0 Segment revenue 376.7 237.6 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 63.0 36.0 Exceptional operating loss profit 2.5 3.6 Segment result 60.5 32.4 Finance costs Finance income Other financial losses Profit before taxation Taxation Profit for the period from continuing operations Assets and liabilities Intangible assets: Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives 76.0 76.0 Intangible assets with nite useful lives 5.4 6.9 Property, plant and equipment 103.3 80.7 Other segment assets 10.7 9.8 Segment assets 195.4 173.4 Unallocated assets: Deferred tax assets Income tax receivable Cash and short-term deposits Total assets Segment liabilities 38.0 38.7 Unallocated liabilities: Income tax payable Loans and borrowings Deferred tax liabilities Total liabilities Net assets Other segment items continuing operations Capital expenditure 43.6 19.4 Depreciation and amortisation 21.6 10.0 Impairment charge see note 4 1.5 11.2 Impairment reversal see note 4 0.7 Net charge from provision for onerous leases see note 4 0.6 0.3 Share-based payment charge 0.1 At 30 June 2012, the Groups continuing operations are organised into four main operating segments: Grosvenor Casinos, Mecca Bingo, Rank Interactive and Top Rank Espana.
The activities of the segments are described in the Group overview section of the directors report.
The areas of operation are principally the operation of bingo clubs, casinos and online gaming and bookmaking services.
Costs that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis are combined within Central costs.
There are immaterial sales between the business segments.
Segment liabilities include trade and other payables, provisions and retirement benefit obligations.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives include 53.4m 31 December 2010: 53.4m of goodwill relating to Rank Interactive.
Capital expenditure comprises expenditure on property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets, including those acquired under finance leases.
To increase transparency the Group has provided additional disclosure analysis for the 12 months to 30 June 2012 and the 12 months to 30 June 2011 in the unaudited appendix to the financial statements on pages 140 to 148.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Segmental reporting continued b Segment information geographical information The Group operates in two main geographical areas UK and Continental Europe.
i Segment revenue from external customers by geographical area based on location of customer 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m UK 787.2 491.3 Continental Europe 67.7 53.2 Total revenue 854.9 544.5 ii Segment non-current assets by geographical area based on location of assets As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m UK 334.6 313.9 Continental Europe 40.8 58.6 Segment non-current assets 375.4 372.5 Unallocated assets: Deferred tax assets 3.5 22.1 Total non-current assets 378.9 394.6 With the exception of the UK no individual country contributed more than 10% of consolidated sales or assets.
c Total revenue and profit from continuing and discontinued operations Revenue Profit 18 months 12 months 18 months 12 months ended ended ended ended 30 June 31 December 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 2012 2010 Note m m m m From continuing operations 854.9 544.5 164.1 48.9 From discontinued operations 4 3.4 4.3 854.9 544.5 167.5 53.2 d Total cost analysis by segment The directors are of the opinion that a cost analysis for the 18 months to 30 June 2012 and the 12 months to 31 December 2010 would not provide meaningful information to the users of the financial statements.
However, to increase transparency the Group has provided additional disclosure analysing total costs by type and segment for the 12 months to 30 June 2012 and the 12 months to 30 June 2011 in the unaudited appendix to the financial statements on pages 140 to 148.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 Profit for the period analysis by nature The following items have been charged credited in arriving at the profit for the period before financing and taxation from continuing operations: 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 Note m m Employee benefit expense 26 270.6 179.8 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 32.9 19.4 Amortisation of intangibles including 1.2m 2010: 0.8m within cost of sales 10 8.8 3.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11 owned assets including 41.3m 2010: 21.1m within cost of sales 44.5 25.6 under finance leases included within cost of sales 3.9 0.9 Operating lease rentals payable minimum lease payments 64.8 44.5 sub-lease income 6.5 4.7 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 Exceptional operating costs 4 36.8 25.1 Exceptional operating income 4 84.9 38.5 Auditors remuneration for audit services 0.4 0.3 In the period, the Groups auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, including its network firms, earned the following fees: 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.1 Other services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 tax services 0.3 0.1 transaction support services 0.5 other services 0.1 0.1 1.3 0.5 22,000 2010: 20,000 of the audit fees related to the parent company.
It is the Groups policy to balance the need to maintain auditor independence with the benefit of taking advice from the leading firm in the area of advice being taken and the desirability of being efficient.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4 Exceptional items 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 Note m m Exceptional items relating to continuing operations Impairment charges 10,11,12 19.3 12.7 Impairment reversals 11,12 3.7 3.2 Charge to provision for onerous leases 21 4.7 15.9 Release from provision for onerous leases 21 0.6 4.3 Change in discount rate for onerous leases 21 4.8 1.9 VAT agreement cost 4.6 VAT partial exemption accrual release 4.5 Bid response costs 4.3 Transaction costs 5.0 Restructuring costs 3.0 2.0 Exceptional operating costs 36.8 25.1 VAT refunds net of gross profits tax and associated costs 84.9 38.5 Exceptional operating income 84.9 38.5 Finance income 5 81.0 5.6 Taxation 6 26.5 8.3 Exceptional items relating to continuing operations 102.6 10.7 Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations Additional profit arising on previously disposed subsidiary undertakings 2.2 0.6 Change in discount rates for disposal provisions 21 0.3 Finance income 2.7 0.4 Taxation 6 1.2 3.3 Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations 3.4 4.3 Total exceptional items 106.0 15.0 18 month period ended 30 June 2012 exceptional items Continuing operations Impairment charges Following the introduction of a full smoking ban at the start of the period and the difficult economic conditions in Spain, an impairment charge of 14.7m has been recognised.
It is possible that further impairment charges may be required if the future performance of individual bingo clubs is not in line with expectations.
The Group also recognised an impairment charge of 2.8m in the UK, of which 1.5m relates to Grosvenor Casinos and 1.3m to Mecca Bingo.
The only individually significant charge of 0.8m was in respect of the E-casino in Liverpool.
The club has not performed in line with expectations and closed on 15 February 2012.
Rank Interactives investment in the development of its online Spanish gaming brand has been fully impaired by 1.8m as legislation has not developed as anticipated.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 104 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Impairment reversals The Group has reversed previous impairment charges of 3.7m, of which 3.0m relates to Mecca Bingo and 0.7m to Grosvenor Casinos.
The reversal in Mecca Bingo is in respect of five clubs where performance has seen a sustained improvement following conversion to the Full House concept or competitor closure and the reclassification of one freehold property to held for sale assets at its fair value less costs to sell see note 11.
The reversal in Grosvenor Casinos follows the successful conversion of one casino to the G-Casino concept.
Onerous leases The Group recognised a total charge of 9.5m in relation to provision for onerous leases in the period.
This includes a charge of 4.8m as a consequence of a reduction in the discount rate used on existing provisions.
The total charge also includes 2.2m in respect of unavoidable rental payments resulting from the restructuring activities outlined below.
A further 1.2m has been recognised in respect of one Mecca Bingo club where expected income no longer exceeds the unavoidable costs, and the remainder of 1.3m is in respect of sites in which there has been a reduction in expected sub-let income as a consequence of the financial position of the associated tenants.
The Group has also released 0.6m in relation to Grosvenor Casinos following the favourable settlement of a number of lease obligations arising from previously closed clubs.
Bid response costs During the period, the Group recognised an exceptional cost of 4.3m relating to the professional fees and other related costs for the response to the Guoco Group Limited offer for the shares of the Company see also note 32.
Transaction costs On 12 May 2012, the Group announced it had conditionally agreed to acquire Gala Casinos from Gala Coral Group Limited for a total cash consideration of 205.0m.
The Group has recognised the costs of the proposed acquisition committed at 30 June 2012 of 5.0m as an exceptional cost.
Further costs relating to the proposed acquisition, committed after 30 June 2012, will be recognised as an exceptional cost in the next financial year.
Restructuring costs During the period, the Group recognised an exceptional cost of 3.0m relating to the closure of six Mecca Bingo clubs, three Grosvenor casinos and continued restructuring of Top Rank Espaa.
The cost includes the creation of restructuring provisions of 0.9m.
VAT refunds net of associated costs During the period, the Group received 88.1m in overpaid VAT from HMRC, together with associated interest of 81.0m.
The repayment covers VAT paid on games of interval and main stage bingo between 1973 and 1996, main stage bingo between 2003 and 2004 and on the disposal of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme in 2008.
The interval and main stage bingo repayments followed successive rulings in the Groups favour in both the First-tier Tribunal and Upper Tribunal or High Court.
HMRC appealed these decisions and as a result the case was referred to the European Court of Justice ECJ.
On 10 November 2011, the ECJ released its findings on the Groups VAT case on fiscal neutrality.
The Group and HMRC have agreed that the ECJ found in favour of the Group on its bingo claims.
The ECJ also ruled on the Groups amusement machines claim relating to a claim for overpaid VAT on amusement machines.
The ECJs decision on the amusement machines claim was not conclusive and was therefore referred back to the UK courts.
Further details of the exceptional gain arising on the VAT repayments are disclosed in the table below: Interval and Main stage main stage bingo bingo VAT on 2003 to 2004 1973 to 1996 pensions Total m m m m Cash repayment received 7.1 74.8 6.2 88.1 Costs, including contingent fees, irrecoverable VAT and related bonuses 0.6 1.8 0.8 3.2 Exceptional gain before financing and taxation 6.5 73.0 5.4 84.9 Finance income 1.4 79.5 0.1 81.0 Taxation 2.0 33.0 35.0 Total exceptional gain on VAT refund 5.9 119.5 5.5 130.9 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4 Exceptional items continued Discontinued operations Additional net profit arising on previously disposed subsidiary undertakings During the period, the Group also recognised an exceptional profit of 2.2m, together with associated interest of 2.7m, following the successful outcome of certain VAT claims relating to previously disposed subsidiary undertakings.
In addition a charge of 0.3m has been recognised in respect of the reduction in discount rate used on provisions connected with previously disposed subsidiary undertakings.
12 months ended 31 December 2010 exceptional items Continuing operations Impairment charges The Group recognised an impairment charge of 1.5m against one vacant freehold property following an external market valuation of the Groups freehold properties.
The Group also recognised an impairment charge of 11.2m against the carrying value of its two casino concessions in Belgium.
The impairment charge was recognised due to a reduction in the expected useful life of the concessions following a change in the anticipated process for concession renewal in Belgium.
Impairment reversals The Group reversed previous impairment charges of 3.2m in relation to seven Mecca Bingo clubs primarily where performance has seen a sustained improvement from the adverse impact of the smoking bans in the UK and the loss of section 21 gaming terminals in 2007.
Onerous leases The Group recognised an additional charge of 17.8m in relation to the provision for onerous property leases.
This included a charge of 15.9m primarily in relation to vacant sites following a reduction in the expected sub-let income.
These sites have proved increasingly difficult to sub-let and a number of tenants have gone into liquidation or have difficulty in paying their rents.
The reduction in the discount rate used in the calculation of the onerous lease provisions also resulted in a 1.9m charge.
The Group also released 4.3m in relation to two Mecca Bingo leases where the discounted cash flows derived from the property are now expected to exceed the unavoidable lease costs.
VAT agreement cost In September 2010, the Group entered into an agreement with a third party that would have resulted in the receipt of 40.5m in the event that the ECJ had found in favour of HMRC on the interval bingo claim.
This agreement was funded by a payment of 4.6m which was recognised as an exceptional cost.
VAT partial exemption accrual release The Group has been in negotiation with HMRC for several years on the means by which it calculates the amount of irrecoverable VAT in Grosvenor Casinos.
Since July 2007, the Group had accounted for irrecoverable VAT on the basis that HMRC were correct.
As a result, the amount of irrecoverable VAT suffered by Grosvenor Casinos exceeded the amount that the Group believed was due.
The point of dispute between the Group and HMRC was the subject of litigation by another, similar, taxpayer.
In that case, the Court of Appeal ruled that HMRCs position was incorrect.
This was the latest in a string of appeals on this point.
Precedent case law indicates that the Groups position is correct and on that basis the irrecoverable VAT accrual was reduced by 4.5m.
In the event this was not the case, the Group would have to pay the VAT in dispute.
See note 31 for further details.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Restructuring costs The Group recognised an exceptional pre tax loss of 2.0m following the restructuring of the Top Rank Espaa business and closure of the Grosvenor Casino at Hove.
VAT refund net of gross profits tax and associated costs On 21 May 2010, the Group received 42.5m in overpaid VAT from HMRC.
The repayment covered VAT paid on games of main stage bingo between 2004 and 2009 and amusement machines between 2002 and 2005.
On 7 June 2010, the Group received 5.6m of interest in respect of the repayment.
The repayment followed successive rulings in the Groups favour in both the Firsttier Tribunals tax chamber formerly the VAT and Duties Tribunal and the Upper Tribunal.
HMRC appealed these rulings to the ECJ.
Further details of the exceptional gain arising on the VAT refunded are disclosed in the table below: Main stage Amusement bingo machines Total m m m Cash repayment received 16.1 26.4 42.5 Increase in gross profits tax payable 2.5 2.5 Costs, including contingent fees, irrecoverable VAT 0.8 0.3 1.1 Irrecoverable input VAT 0.3 0.1 0.4 Exceptional gain before financing and taxation 12.5 26.0 38.5 Finance income 1.2 4.4 5.6 Taxation 3.8 8.6 12.4 Total exceptional gain on VAT refund 9.9 21.8 31.7 Discontinued operations Additional profit arising on previously disposed subsidiary The Group also recognised an exceptional profit of 0.6m, together with associated interest of 0.4m, following the successful outcome of certain VAT claims relating to a previously disposed subsidiary.
Taxation Details of exceptional taxation are disclosed in note 6.
Details of exceptional items for the 12 months to 30 June 2012 and the 12 months to 30 June 2011 are provided in the unaudited appendix to the financial statements on pages 140 to 148.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 Financing 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Continuing operations: Finance costs: 1 Interest on debt and borrowings 4.0 4.3 Amortisation of issue costs on borrowings 0.4 0.9 Interest payable on finance leases 1.6 0.9 Unwinding of discount in onerous leases provisions 2.1 1.2 Unwinding of discount in disposal provisions 0.4 0.2 Total finance costs 8.5 7.5 Finance income: 1 Interest income on short term bank deposits 0.9 0.5 Finance income 0.9 0.5 Other financial losses 0.4 0.5 Total net financing cost for continuing operations before exceptional items 8.0 7.5 Exceptional finance income 81.0 5.6 Total net financing income cost for continuing operations 73.0 1.9 1 Calculated using the effective interest method.
Further details of the exceptional finance income are disclosed in note 4.
A reconciliation of total net financing costs to adjusted net interest included in adjusted profit is disclosed below: 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Total net financing cost for continuing operations before exceptional items 8.0 7.5 Adjust for: Unwinding of discount in disposal provisions 0.4 0.2 Other financial losses including foreign exchange 0.4 0.5 Adjusted net interest payable 7.2 6.8 Details of financing for the 12 months to 30 June 2012 and the 12 months to 30 June 2011 are provided in the unaudited appendix to the financial statements on pages 140 to 148.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 108 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6 Taxation 18 months ended 30 June 2012 12 months ended 31 December 2010 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total m m m m m m Current income tax Current income tax UK 5.8 5.8 13.1 13.1 Current income tax overseas 0.8 0.8 1.8 1.8 Current income tax charge 6.6 6.6 14.9 14.9 Current income tax on exceptional items 38.5 1.1 39.6 8.0 8.0 Amounts under provided in previous period 0.3 0.3 Amounts over under provided in previous period on exceptional items 7.0 0.1 6.9 2.8 2.8 Total current income tax charge credit 38.1 1.2 39.3 23.2 2.8 20.4 Deferred tax Deferred tax UK 18.1 18.1 1.6 1.6 Deferred tax overseas 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Restatement of deferred tax from 27.0% to 24.0% 1.1 1.1 0.8 0.8 Deferred tax on exceptional items 5.0 5.0 0.3 0.3 Amounts over provided in previous period 0.2 0.2 1.5 1.5 Amounts over provided in previous period on exceptional items 0.5 0.5 Total deferred tax charge credit note 20 13.9 13.9 1.4 0.5 0.9 Tax charge credit in the income statement 52.0 1.2 53.2 24.6 3.3 21.3 The tax on the Groups profit before taxation on continuing operations differs from the standard rate of UK corporation tax in the period of 26.0% 2010: 28.0%.
The differences are explained below: 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Profit before taxation on continuing operations 216.1 73.5 Tax charge calculated at 26.0% on profit before taxation on continuing operations 2010: 28.0% 56.2 20.6 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.4 5.0 Difference in overseas tax rates 0.3 0.6 Restatement of deferred tax from 27.0% to 24.0% 1.1 0.8 Adjustments relating to prior periods 7.2 1.2 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 0.2 Tax charge in the income statement on continuing operations 52.0 24.6 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6 Taxation continued Tax on exceptional items continuing operations The taxation impacts of exceptional items are disclosed below: 18 months ended 30 June 2012 12 months ended 31 December 2010 Current Deferred Current Deferred income tax tax Total income tax tax Total m m m m m m Impairment charges 4.5 4.5 Impairment reversals 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.3 Charge to provision for onerous leases 1.3 1.3 4.5 4.5 Release from provision for onerous leases 0.1 0.1 1.2 1.2 Change in discount rates for onerous leases 1.2 1.2 0.5 0.5 VAT agreement cost 1.3 1.3 VAT partial exemption accrual release 1.3 1.3 Bid response costs Transaction costs Restructuring costs 1.2 0.6 1.8 0.6 0.6 VAT refund net of gross profits tax and associated costs 35.0 35.0 12.4 12.4 Tax charge credit on exceptional items continuing operations 31.5 5.0 26.5 8.0 0.3 8.3 Tax on exceptional items discontinued operations The current income tax charge on discontinued exceptional items in the 18 months ended 30 June 2012 of 1.2m primarily relates to tax payable on VAT refunds.
The deferred tax credit on discontinued exceptional items in the 12 months ended 31 December 2010 of 2.8m included a 0.8m US tax refund and 2.0m arising from the reassessment of potential tax liabilities that are attributable to disposed entities.
Tax effect of items within other comprehensive income 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Current income tax credit on exchange movements offset in reserves 0.6 Deferred tax charge on exchange movements offset in reserves 0.5 Deferred tax credit on actuarial movement on retirement benefits 0.1 Total tax credit charge on items within other comprehensive income 0.7 0.5 The credit in respect of employee share schemes included within the Statement of Changes in Equity includes a deferred tax credit of 0.2m 2010: Nil and a current tax credit of 0.7m 2010: Nil.
Factors affecting future taxation UK corporation tax is calculated at 26% 2010: 28% of the estimated assessable profit for the period.
Taxation for overseas operations is calculated at the local prevailing rates.
On 23 March 2012, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced the reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 24% with effect from 1 April 2012.
This change was enacted on 26 March 2012 under the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968.
The effect of the rate reduction creates a reduction in the net deferred tax asset which has been included in the figures above.
On 23 March 2012, the Chancellor of the Exchequer also announced the reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 23% for the year starting 1 April 2013 and a further 1% reduction to 22% in April 2014.
This change was substantively enacted in July 2012.
The proposed rate reductions will reduce the amount of cash tax payments to be made by the Group.
Overall the reduction in the corporate tax rate from 24% to 22% is expected to reduce the Groups net deferred tax asset by approximately 0.3m.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 110 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 Results attributable to the parent company The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the parent company income statement.
The profit for the 18 months ended 30 June 2012 for the Company was 123.5m 12 months ended 31 December 2010: 54.2m.
The profit includes an impairment reversal of 157.5m 2010: Nil in respect of its investment in subsidiary undertakings.
Further details are provided in note 13.
8 Dividends 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Dividends paid to equity holders Final for 2009 paid on 5 May 2010 1.35p per share 5.3 Interim for 2010 paid on 10 September 2010 0.74p per share 2.9 Final for 2010 paid on 4 May 2011 1.66p per share 6.5 1st Interim for 2011-12 paid on 12 September 2011 1.00p per share 3.9 2nd Interim for 2011-12 paid on 29 March 2012 1.10p per share 4.3 Refund of unclaimed dividends 0.1 14.7 8.1 A dividend in respect of the 18 months ended 30 June 2012 of 2.50p per share, amounting to a total dividend of 9.8m, is to be recommended at the annual general meeting on 19 October 2012.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
9 Earnings per share a Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held as treasury shares, as defined by IAS 32 see note 22.
18 months ended 30 June 2012 12 months ended 31 December 2010 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total Profit attributable to equity shareholders Continuing operations 61.5m 102.6m 164.1m 38.2m 10.7m 48.9m Discontinued operations 3.4m 3.4m 4.3m 4.3m Total 61.5m106.0m167.5m 38.2m 15.0m 53.2m Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 390.3m 390.3m 390.3m 389.5m 389.5m 389.5m Basic earnings per share Continuing operations 15.8p 26.3p 42.1p 9.8p 2.8p 12.6p Discontinued operations 0.9p 0.9p 1.1p 1.1p Total 15.8p27.2p43.0p 9.8p 3.9p 13.7p The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9 Earnings per share continued b Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The only category of dilutive potential ordinary shares are share options.
For share options, a calculation is made to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market share price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options.
The number of shares calculated is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming exercise of the share options.
There is no difference in the profit used to determine diluted earnings per share from that used to determine basic earnings per share.
The potential dilutive impact of share options on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and diluted earnings per share is shown below.
18 months ended 30 June 2012 12 months ended 31 December 2010 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 390.3m 390.3m 390.3m 389.5m 389.5m 389.5m Dilutive potential ordinary shares 0.2m 0.2m 0.2m 2.1m 2.1m 2.1m 390.5m 390.5m 390.5m 391.6m 391.6m 391.6m Diluted earnings per share Continuing operations 15.7p 26.3p 42.0p 9.8p 2.7p 12.5p Discontinued operations 0.9p 0.9p 1.1p 1.1p Total 15.7p27.2p42.9p 9.8p 3.8p 13.6p c Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings is calculated by adjusting profit attributable to equity shareholders to exclude discontinued operations, exceptional items, other financial gains or losses, unwinding of the discount in disposal provisions and the related tax effects.
Adjusted earnings is one of the business performance measures used internally by management to manage the operations of the business.
Management believes that the adjusted earnings measure assists in providing a view of the underlying performance of the business.
Adjusted net earnings attributable to equity shareholders is derived as follows: 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Profit attributable to equity shareholders 167.5 53.2 Adjust for: Discontinued operations net of taxation 3.4 4.3 Exceptional items after tax on continuing operations 102.6 10.7 Other financial losses 0.4 0.5 Unwinding of discount in disposal provisions 0.4 0.2 Taxation on adjusted items and impact of reduction in tax rate to 24.0% 2010: 27.0% 1.0 1.0 Adjusted net earnings attributable to equity shareholders m 63.3 39.9 Adjusted earnings per share p basic 16.2p 10.2p Adjusted earnings per share p diluted 16.2p 10.2p Details of adjusted earnings per share for the 12 months to 30 June 2012 and the 12 months to 30 June 2011 are provided in the unaudited appendix to the financial statements on pages 140 to 148.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 112 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10 Intangible assets Casino and other Rank gaming Interactive licences and goodwill concessions Other Total m m m m Group Cost At 1 January 2010 53.8 124.4 36.2 214.4 Exchange adjustments 1.7 1.7 Disposal of business 0.4 1.0 1.4 Disposals 2.6 2.6 Additions 6.8 6.8 At 31 December 2010 53.4 122.7 39.4 215.5 Exchange adjustments 2.7 2.7 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Additions 10.5 10.5 At 30 June 2012 53.4 120.0 49.8 223.2 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2010 8.8 27.6 36.4 Exchange adjustments 0.3 0.3 Disposal of business 0.4 0.4 Charge for the year 3.8 3.8 Disposals 2.6 2.6 Impairment charges 11.2 11.2 At 31 December 2010 19.7 28.4 48.1 Exchange adjustments 2.2 2.2 Charge for the period 1.1 7.7 8.8 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Impairment charges 13.1 1.8 14.9 At 30 June 2012 31.7 37.8 69.5 Net book value at 31 December 2009 53.8 115.6 8.6 178.0 Net book value at 31 December 2010 53.4 103.0 11.0 167.4 Net book value at 30 June 2012 53.4 88.3 12.0 153.7 Other intangible assets comprise other licences, computer software and development technology and customer lists.
These include internally generated computer software and development technology with a net book value of 3.8m 2010: 2.2m.
indefinite life intangible assets have been reviewed for impairment as set out in note 12.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, ttings, Land and plant and buildings machinery Total m m m Group Cost At 1 January 2010 134.1 357.1 491.2 Exchange adjustments 0.4 1.9 2.3 Additions 2.5 39.5 42.0 Disposals 0.4 2.0 2.4 At 31 December 2010 135.8 392.7 528.5 Exchange adjustments 0.8 3.4 4.2 Additions 3.5 65.7 69.2 Disposals 3.4 15.0 18.4 Transfer to assets held for sale 3.9 3.9 At 30 June 2012 131.2 440.0 571.2 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2010 70.6 233.1 303.7 Exchange adjustments 1.1 1.1 Charge for the year 3.0 23.5 26.5 Impairment charges 1.5 1.5 Impairment reversals 2.0 1.2 3.2 Disposals 0.2 1.7 1.9 At 31 December 2010 72.9 252.6 325.5 Exchange adjustments 0.1 2.2 2.3 Charge for the period 4.8 43.6 48.4 Impairment charges 1.1 3.3 4.4 Impairment reversals 1.7 2.0 3.7 Disposals 2.8 14.1 16.9 Transfer to assets held for sale 2.0 2.0 At 30 June 2012 72.2 281.2 353.4 Net book value at 31 December 2009 63.5 124.0 187.5 Net book value at 31 December 2010 62.9 140.1 203.0 Net book value at 30 June 2012 59.0 158.8 217.8 Finance leases The net book value of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases was: As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Land and buildings 6.1 7.1 Fixtures, fittings, plant and machinery 7.5 1.2 Net book value at end of period 13.6 8.3 There were 9.2m 2010: 1.4m of additions under finance leases during the period.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 114 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Borrowing costs There were no qualifying assets in either period and therefore no borrowing costs have been capitalised in either period.
Assets under construction There were no material assets under construction at either reporting date.
Held for sale assets As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Land and buildings 1.9 Assets held for sale comprise a single freehold property in respect of a closed club within Mecca Bingo.
An impairment reversal of 0.4m has been recognised within exceptional items in respect of this property.
It is expected that this property will be sold for its carrying value within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
12 Impairment review The pre-tax discount rate applied to all cash ow projections is 11.0% 2010: 11.0%.
The discount rate calculation is based on the specific circumstances of the Group and its cash generating units and is derived from its weighted average cost of capital.
Management believes that the discount rate is appropriate for each cash-generating unit CGU as they operate in gaming markets with similar risks as set out below.
As the Group operates in the UK, Spain and Belgium, country risk has been recognised in the cash flow forecasts, rather than adjusting the discount rate.
a Impairment review of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
In accordance with IAS 36, goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment.
In addition, the Group classifies casino licences with the exception of its concessions in Belgium and Spanish bingo licences as intangible assets with an indefinite life.
i Goodwill At 30 June 2012, the Group has goodwill with a carrying value of 53.4m 2010: 53.4m arising from the acquisition of Rank Interactive.
For impairment testing, the whole of Rank Interactive is treated as a single CGU.
The recoverable amount has been determined based on a value in use calculation using 20 year cash ow projections based on the Groups budget for 2012-13, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of 2.0% 2010: 2.0% thereafter.
Both the Groups budget and strategic plan have been approved by the board of directors.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use are settled stakes, gaming win margins, gaming duty and the discount rate.
Settled stakes represent monies placed by customers for betting and interactive games and are estimated taking into account the product mix, major sporting events and industry developments.
Gaming win margins are based on values achieved in the past and amended for any anticipated changes in the budget period.
Gaming duty is based upon statutory rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
The calculation also assumes that revenue from UK domiciled customers is not subject to UK duty or VAT until the introduction of remote gaming duty on a place of consumption basis in December 2014.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12 Impairment review continued As a result of the impairment testing, the directors do not believe that the carrying value of the goodwill was impaired as the value in use significantly exceeded the carrying value of goodwill.
The key factors which impact the calculation of the carrying value include: Key factors Key assumption impacted Increased or improved competition Settled stakes, Gaming win margin Poor or decreased marketing Settled stakes Failure to respond to technological advances Settled stakes Deterioration in economic environment Settled stakes Changes in regulation Settled stakes, Gaming win margin Changes in taxation Gaming duty Prolonged period of adverse sporting results Gaming win margin Changes in settled stakes and gaming win margin impact gaming win and consequently the cash flow projections used to determine the recoverable amount.
The directors do not consider that there is a reasonably possible change that would lead to an impairment.
ii Casino licences The carrying value of indefinite life casino licences as at 30 June 2012 was 76.0m 31 December 2010: 76.0m.
The inherent value of casino licences are deemed to be an intrinsic part of the value of the operation of casinos as a whole and is therefore not split out from each Grosvenor casino in an impairment review.
Each Grosvenor casino has been treated as a separate CGU, and tested for impairment on that basis.
The recoverable amount of each Grosvenor casino, including the licence, has been determined based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use has been determined using cash flow projections, over the length of the associated lease or 50 years for freehold properties, based on the Groups budget for 2012-13, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of 2.0% 2010: 2.0% thereafter.
Estimates of the fair value less costs to sell are performed internally by experienced senior management supported by knowledge of similar transactions or, where applicable, offers received.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use are customer visits, spend per visit, casino duty, and the discount rate.
Customer visits are the number of discrete visits by members to the casino and have been based on historic trends.
Spend per visit comprises the average amount of money net of winnings spent per visit on gaming tables, machines and food and beverages.
This has also been determined by historic trends.
Casino duty is levied in bands of between 15% and 50% depending upon the level of gaming win at each casino.
The bands and rates have been assumed to remain at current levels without indexation, details of which are provided on page 55.
As a result of the impairment review, the directors do not believe the carrying value of the UK casino licences to be impaired.
However, there are possible changes in key assumptions that could cause the carrying value of individual licences to exceed their recoverable amount.
These are: Key factors Key assumption impacted Increased or improved competition Customer visits Poor or decreased promotional activity Customer visits Failure to respond to technological advances Customer visits, Spend per visit Deterioration in economic conditions Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in regulation Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in taxation Casino duty With the exception of a prolonged non-operation of a UK casino licence arising from one or more of the possible changes outlined above, the directors do not believe that there are any reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions that would result in a material impairment of a UK casino licence.
In the prior period the treatment of the two casino concessions in Belgium was modified.
The Group previously treated the concessions as intangible assets with indefinite lives.
However, following a re-evaluation of the anticipated process for concession renewal in Belgium, expected useful lives and the associated cash flows the directors no longer considered this was appropriate.
This resulted in an impairment charge of 11.2m in the prior period.
The remaining carrying value is being amortised over the expected useful life of nine years.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 116 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED iii Spanish bingo licences The carrying value of Spanish bingo licences as at 30 June 2012 was 7.1m 31 December 2010: 20.5m.
The inherent value of each Spanish bingo licence is deemed to be an intrinsic part of the value of a club as a whole and is not therefore split out from the assets of each individual bingo club in an impairment review.
Each individual bingo club has been treated as a separate CGU, and tested for impairment on that basis.
The recoverable amount of each Spanish bingo club, including the licence, has been determined based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use calculation has been determined using cash flow projections, over the length of the associated lease or 50 years in the case of freehold properties, based on the Groups budget for 2012-13, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of 2.0% 2010: 3.0% thereafter.
The projections include the expected recovery from the short-term impacts of the full smoking ban implemented on 2 January 2011.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use are customer visits, spend per visit, bingo tax and the discount rate.
Customer visits are the number of discrete visits to the bingo club and have been based on recent trends.
Spend per visit comprises the average amount of money net of winnings spent by a member on bingo games, machines and food and beverages.
This has been determined by recent trends.
Bingo tax is based upon statutory rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
As a result of the impairment review, impairment charges of 13.1m have been recognised against the value in use of five bingo licences reflecting the significant impact of the full smoking ban, and difficult economic conditions in Spain.
However, there are possible changes in the key assumptions that could cause further impairments.
These are: Key factors Key assumption impacted Increased or improved competition Customer visits Poor or decreased promotional activity Customer visits Failure to respond to technological advances Customer visits, Spend per visit Deterioration in economic conditions Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in regulation Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in taxation Bingo tax As outlined above, each Spanish bingo licence has been tested for impairment as part of the club as a whole.
Accordingly, the sensitivity of each licence to future impairments, arising from changes in the key assumptions, varies at each club.
For the clubs previously impaired, a one percentage point reduction in expected future net income would generate an incremental impairment of 0.2m.
b Impairment review of property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are grouped into CGUs which are defined as individual clubs for Mecca Bingo, Top Rank Espaa and Grosvenor Casinos and the whole operation for Rank Interactive.
The key assumptions and sensitivities in the impairment reviews for Rank Interactive, Casinos and Bingo are the same as outlined above for intangible assets.
The recoverable amount of each CGU, including the licence if applicable, has been determined based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use has been determined using cash ow projections from the Groups budget for 2012-13, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of 2.0% 2010: 2.0% except for Top Rank Espaa where a growth rate of 3.0% was used thereafter.
Estimates of the fair value less costs to sell are performed internally by an experienced surveyor supported by external estate agent advice or, where applicable, offers received.
c Impairment recognised during the period Impairments of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are recognised as an exceptional item in operating costs in the income statement.
The impairments recognised during the period were as follows: 2011-12 Mecca Bingo The Group recognised an impairment charge of 1.3m in the period.
No charge in respect of any individual bingo club is individually significant.
The Group also reversed previous impairments of 3.0m in respect of five clubs where performance has seen a sustained improvement following conversion to the Full House concept or competitor closure, and the reclassification of one further freehold property to held for sale assets at its fair value less costs to sell see note 11.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12 Impairment review continued Grosvenor Casinos The Group recognised an impairment charge in the period of 1.5m.
The only individually significant charge was 0.8m in respect of the E-casino in Liverpool which closed in early 2012.
The Group also reversed previous impairment charges of 0.7m in respect of the casino in Cardiff where performance has seen a sustained improvement following the successful conversion to the G-Casino concept.
Top Rank Espaa Following the introduction of a full smoking ban at the start of the period and the difficult economic conditions in Spain a cumulative impairment charge of 14.7m has been recognised.
Rank Interactive Rank Interactives investment in the development of its proposed online Spanish gaming brand has been fully impaired by 1.8m as legislation has not developed as anticipated.
2010 Mecca Bingo The Group recognised an impairment charge of 1.5m against one vacant Mecca Bingo freehold property following an external market valuation of the Groups freehold properties.
The Group also reversed previous impairment charges of 3.2m in relation to seven Mecca Bingo clubs primarily where performance has seen a sustained improvement from the adverse impact of the smoking bans in the UK and the loss of section 21 gaming terminals in 2007.
Grosvenor Casinos The Group recognised an impairment charge of 11.2m against the carrying value of its two casino concessions in Belgium.
The residual carrying value is being amortised over the remaining expected useful life of nine years.
13 Investments in subsidiaries As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Company Cost At start of period 1,516.9 1,515.6 Additions 0.9 1.3 At end of period 1,517.8 1,516.9 Provision for impairment At start of period 489.3 489.3 Reversal of impairment 157.5 At end of period 331.8 489.3 Net book value at end of period 1,186.0 1,027.6 The additions in the period relate to the fair value of services recognised by subsidiary undertakings arising from share options granted by the Company.
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 33.
The Company has recognised an impairment reversal of 157.5m following a period of sustained improvement in earnings used as a basis for the annual impairment review of the carrying value of the Companys investments in subsidiary undertakings, together with the exceptional VAT refunds received in the period.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 118 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14 Inventories Group As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Raw materials 0.2 0.3 Finished goods 2.9 3.1 3.1 3.4 There were no write downs of inventory in either period.
15 Other receivables Group Company As at As at As at As at 30 June 31 December 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 2012 2010 m m m m Current Other receivables 4.5 8.8 Less: provisions for impairment of other receivables 0.1 0.3 Other receivables net 4.4 8.5 Prepayments 26.3 18.5 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings repayable on demand 43.6 43.6 30.7 27.0 43.6 43.6 Non-current Other receivables 3.9 2.1 3.9 2.1 Receivables with a carrying value of 2.5m as at 31 December 2010 have been reclassified as other receivables.
Group The carrying values of other receivables are assumed to approximate to their fair values due to their short-term nature.
As at 30 June 2012, other receivables of 0.5m 31 December 2010: 0.7m were past due but not impaired.
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in other operating costs in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the provision for impairment are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Company The carrying values of amounts due from subsidiary undertakings are assumed to equate to their fair value as all amounts are repayable on demand.
The amounts are denominated in UK Sterling and relate to subsidiary undertakings for which there is no history of default.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16 Trade and other payables Group Company As at As at As at As at 30 June 31 December 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 2012 2010 m m m m Current Trade payables 14.2 18.1 Social security and other taxation 23.4 23.0 Other payables 62.8 56.9 1.5 1.9 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings repayable on demand 756.4 705.2 Trade and other payables current 100.4 98.0 757.9 707.1 Non-current Other payables 0.1 0.2 Trade and other payables non-current 0.1 0.2 17 Income tax Group As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Income tax receivable 0.1 0.2 Income tax payable Continuing operations 49.8 34.1 Income tax payable Discontinued operations 20.6 30.0 Income tax payable 70.4 64.1 Net income tax payable 70.3 63.9 Income tax payable has been analysed between current and non-current as follows: Current 31.3 28.5 Non-current 39.1 35.6 Total 70.4 64.1 Income tax payable on discontinued operations relates to potential tax liabilities that are attributable to disposed entities with historic tax audits.
The liability represents managements current estimate of the payments that will be required to settle the various issues.
Income tax payable included within non-current liabilities relates to ongoing tax issues in continuing operations that may be challenged by the relevant tax authority and ongoing tax exposure in discontinued operations in overseas jurisdictions.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 120 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18 Financial assets and liabilities a Interest bearing loans and borrowings Group As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 Maturity m m Current interest-bearing loans and borrowings Bank overdraft On demand 2.9 6.5 Obligations under finance leases Various 3.0 1.2 Other current loans Accrued interest July 2012 0.5 0.7 Unamortised facility fees bond Various 0.1 0.3 Total current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 6.3 8.1 Non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 7.125% Yankee bonds 2018 9.1 9.1 Syndicated loan facility 2012 168.6 Obligations under finance leases Various 15.7 12.0 Other non-current loans Unamortised facility fees bond Various 0.2 0.3 Total non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 24.6 189.4 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 30.9 197.5 Sterling 21.8 119.8 Euros 68.6 US Dollars 9.1 9.1 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 30.9 197.5 Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are for short-term funding and are repayable on demand.
Bi-lateral loan facilities New five year facilities were signed in January 2012 and consist of four 20.0m multi-currency revolving credit bi-lateral facilities totalling 80.0m.
Interest is payable on a periodic basis depending on the loan drawn.
The facilities carry floating rates of interest which are LIBOR dependent.
The new bi-lateral loan facilities replace the syndicated loan facility that was due to expire on 14 April 2012.
No drawings have been made on the facilities during the period.
Syndicated loan facility The previous five year facility was signed on 14 April 2007 and consisted of a 100.0m term loan and a 200.0m multi-currency revolving credit facility.
Interest was payable on a monthly or quarterly basis depending on the loan drawn.
The facility carried a floating rate of interest which was LIBOR dependent.
The syndicated loan facility was repaid in full and cancelled on 13 January 2012.
Yankee bonds Interest on the Yankee bonds is payable half yearly in January and July at a rate of 7.125%.
The Group complied with all its covenants during the period.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued Company The Company did not hold any external interest bearing loans or borrowings at 30 June 2012 31 December 2010: nil.
The Company holds interest bearing loans with other Group companies at 30 June 2012 of 756.4m 31 December 2010: 705.2m.
b Hedging activities The Group has in the past used foreign currency denominated borrowings to manage some of its translation exposure in relation to net investments in foreign operations.
On repayment of the syndicated facilities on 13 January 2012 the Group decided to cease the hedging of its translation exposure.
Included in loans at 31 December 2010, was a borrowing of 80.0m, which was designated as a hedge of the net investment in the subsidiaries in Europe and was used to hedge the Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
Gains or losses on the retranslation of this borrowing were transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on the translation of the net investments in the subsidiaries.
c Fair values The table below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Group and Companys financial instruments at 30 June 2012 and 31 December 2010.
Carrying amount Fair value As at As at As at As at 30 June 31 December 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 2012 2010 m m m m Group Financial assets: Loans and receivables Other receivables 0.9 2.5 0.9 2.5 Cash and short-term deposits 72.5 74.0 72.5 74.0 Total 73.4 76.5 73.4 76.5 Financial liabilities: Other financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Obligations under finance leases 18.7 13.2 18.7 13.2 Floating rate borrowings 168.6 168.6 Fixed rate borrowings 9.1 9.1 9.0 10.3 Other 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 Trade and other payables 77.0 75.0 77.0 75.0 Bank overdrafts 2.9 6.5 2.9 6.5 Onerous property leases 46.0 41.9 46.0 41.9 Lease disposal settlements 1.2 2.2 1.2 2.2 Total 155.1 316.6 155.0 317.8 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 122 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Carrying amount Fair value As at As at As at As at 30 June 31 December 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 2012 2010 m m m m Company Financial assets: Loans and receivables Other receivables 43.6 43.6 43.6 43.6 Cash and short-term deposits 0.1 0.1 Total 43.7 43.6 43.7 43.6 Financial liabilities: Other financial liabilities Trade and other payables 757.9 707.1 757.9 707.1 Financial guarantee contracts 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Total 758.0 707.2 758.0 707.2 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: Cash and short-term deposits, other receivables, bank overdrafts and other financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings is based on price quotations at the reporting date.
The fair value of floating rate borrowings and obligations under finance leases approximate to their carrying amounts.
The fair value of onerous property leases and lease disposal settlements approximate their carrying amount as they are discounted at current rates.
19 Financial risk management objectives and policies Financial risk factors The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings, trade and other payables.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Groups operations.
The Group has other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that derive directly from its operations.
The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall financial risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group, where appropriate, has used financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The Groups senior management oversees the management of these risks.
The Groups senior management is supported by the finance committee that advises on financial risks and the appropriate financial risk governance framework for the Group.
The finance committee provides assurance to the Groups senior management that the Groups financial risk-taking activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and the financial risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with Group policies and Group risk appetite.
The board of directors review and agree policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below.
a Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings and deposits.
The sensitivity analyses in the following sections relate to the position at 30 June 2012 and 31 December 2010.
The sensitivity analyses have been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating rates of the debt and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the hedge designations in place at 30 June 2012 and 31 December 2010.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued i Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Groups operating activities when revenue or expense is denominated in a different currency from the Groups functional currency and the Groups net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
The Group has in the past hedged its exposure to fluctuations on the translation of its euro denominated foreign operations by holding euro borrowings.
Group policy was to hedge 90% of material, identified exposures.
Foreign currency sensitivity The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of a possible change in the US dollar and euro, with all other variables held constant, to the Groups profit before tax and the Groups equity.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
Effect on profit before tax Effect on equity As at As at As at As at 30 June 31 December 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 2012 2010 m m m m Change in US$ rate: 3.0% 0.3 0.3 -3.0% 0.3 0.3 Change in euro rate: 3.0% 1.2 -3.0% 1.2 ii Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Groups longterm debt obligations with floating interest rates.
At 30 June 2012 the Group had no long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates and therefore the Groups exposure to interest rate risk is not material.
Historically the Group had managed its interest rate risk by having a balanced portfolio of fixed and variable rate loans and borrowings with a policy of maintaining between 40% and 60% of its borrowings at fixed rates of interest.
At 30 June 2012 91% of the Groups borrowings were at a fixed rate of interest 2010: 11%.
iii Interest rate sensitivity The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to a possible change in interest rates on income and equity for the year when this movement is applied to the carrying value of loans, borrowings and short-term deposits.
Effect on profit before tax As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Sterling: 100 basis point increase 0.3 0.9 200 basis point increase 0.7 1.8 Euro: 100 basis point increase 0.7 200 basis point increase 1.4 There was no impact on equity in either period.
Due to current low interest rates, any further decline would not have a material impact on income and equity for the period.
As such, sensitivity to a decrease in interest rates has not been presented.
The Group did not enter into any fixed-to-floating or floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps in either year.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 124 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities primarily for other receivables and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments.
Financial instruments and cash deposits Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Groups treasury department in accordance with the Groups policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty.
Counterparty credit limits are reviewed by the finance director, and may be updated throughout the period subject to the approval of the Groups finance committee.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through potential counterparty failure.
The credit worthiness of each counterparty is checked against independent credit ratings on at least a weekly basis, with a minimum rating of BBB required.
The Group predominantly invests with its lending banks when appropriate.
Sales to retail customers are settled in cash or using major credit cards and therefore the exposure to credit risk is not considered significant.
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period and management does not expect any material losses from non-performance of its counterparties.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have sufficient funds to meet its liabilities.
Cash forecasts identifying the liquidity requirements of the Group are produced quarterly.
The cash forecasts are sensitivity tested for different scenarios and are reviewed regularly.
Forecast financial headroom and debt covenant compliance is reviewed monthly during the month-end process to ensure sufficient financial headroom exists for at least a 12 month period.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
A four-year strategic forecast is prepared annually to facilitate planning for future financing needs.
Management actively manages the Groups financing requirements and the range of maturities on its debt.
The Groups core debt facility is a 80.0m 2010: 300.0m bank facility comprising four 20.0m bi-lateral bank facilities which expire in January 2017.
The Group proactively manages its relationships with its lending group.
The funding policy of the Group is to maintain, as far as practicable, a broad portfolio of debt diversified by source and maturity, and to maintain committed facilities sufficient to cover seasonal peak anticipated borrowing requirements.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Less than On demand 12 months 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m At 30 June 2012 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2.9 4.6 4.5 10.4 17.8 40.2 Trade and other payables 77.0 77.0 Onerous property leases 4.4 3.6 9.7 46.4 64.1 Lease disposal settlements 0.7 0.5 1.2 2.9 86.7 8.6 20.1 64.2 182.5 At 31 December 2010 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 6.5 4.5 171.7 4.8 18.5 206.0 Trade and other payables 75.0 75.0 Onerous property leases 3.6 3.8 9.5 49.9 66.8 Lease disposal settlements 0.7 0.7 1.0 2.4 6.5 83.8 176.2 15.3 68.4 350.2 Interest payments on the interest bearing loans and borrowings have been projected until the instruments mature.
The syndicated facility interest payments were based on current LIBOR rates as at 31 December 2010.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 125 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Capital management As a result of the difficult conditions that developed in the global capital markets in recent years, the Groups objectives when managing capital has been to ensure continuing access to existing debt facilities and to manage the borrowing cost of those facilities in order to minimise the Groups interest charge.
Consistent with others in the gaming industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of leverage ratio.
The ratio is calculated as net debt divided by EBITDA.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings including loans and borrowings as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less cash and short-term deposits, accrued interest and unamortised facility fees.
EBITDA is calculated as operating profit before exceptional items, depreciation and amortisation.
The leverage ratios at 30 June 2012 and 31 December 2010 were as follows: As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Total loans and borrowings note 18 30.9 197.5 Less: Cash and short-term deposits 72.5 74.0 Less: Accrued interest 0.5 0.7 Less: Unamortised facility fees 0.3 0.6 Net cash debt 41.8 123.4 Continuing operations Operating profit before exceptionals 65.5 62.0 Add: Depreciation and amortisation 38.9 30.3 EBITDA 104.4 92.3 Leverage ratio 0.4 1.3 The leverage ratio at 30 June 2012 is based on unaudited financials for the 12 months to 30 June 2012.
Taking into consideration both the Groups capital investment requirements and the stability of the wider economic environment the Group considers its progressive dividend policy to be appropriate.
The board recommends dividends with the intention that the Group achieves a dividend cover of at least 3 times over the medium term.
Collateral The Group did not pledge or hold any collateral at 30 June 2012 2010: nil.
Company The Company is exposed to credit risk on amounts owed by related undertakings.
The performance of all subsidiary undertakings of the Group are monitored at Group level, including frequent projections of future performance to ensure funding to related undertakings provide a suitable return and remains recoverable.
Where losses are forecast actions are taken to mitigate the loss and maximise the recoverability of receivables.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of its receivables of 43.6m 2010: 43.6m.
The Company does not have any other significant exposure to financial risks.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 126 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20 Deferred tax The analysis of deferred tax included in the financial statements at the end of the period is as follows: Group Company As at As at As at As at 30 June 31 December 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 2012 2010 m m m m Deferred tax assets: Accelerated capital allowances 18.4 31.0 Tax losses carried forward 3.5 10.9 Other UK temporary differences 0.2 0.4 Deferred tax assets 21.9 41.9 0.2 0.4 Deferred tax liabilities: Other overseas temporary differences 2.2 6.2 Business combinations non-qualifying properties 1.0 1.7 Other UK temporary differences 16.3 18.0 Deferred tax liabilities 19.5 25.9 Net deferred tax asset 2.4 16.0 0.2 0.4 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and current tax liabilities and it is the intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities of 18.4m 2010: 19.8m have been offset and disclosed on the balance sheet as follows: Group As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Deferred tax assets 3.5 22.1 Deferred tax liabilities 1.1 6.1 Net deferred tax asset 2.4 16.0 The deferred tax assets recognised are recoverable against future taxable profits that the directors consider more likely than not to occur on the basis of management forecasts.
The Group has overseas tax losses of 20.0m 2010: 32.1m that are carried forward for offset against suitable future taxable profits.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses as their utilisation is not currently anticipated.
The expiry of these losses was as follows: Group As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Expiring in 2017 19.1 31.6 No expiry date 0.9 0.5 20.0 32.1 The Group has UK capital losses carried forward of 790m.
These losses are available for offset against future UK chargeable gains.
No deferred tax asset 2010: nil has been recognised in respect of these capital losses as no further utilisation is currently anticipated.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20 Deferred tax continued Temporary differences associated with Group investments There was no deferred tax liability recognised 2010: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries.
The Group has determined that any unremitted earnings that do not fall within the dividend exemption introduced in the Finance Act 2009 will not be distributed in the foreseeable future and the parent company does not foresee giving such consent at the balance sheet date.
The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: Group 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Deferred tax in the income statement Accelerated capital allowances 12.6 3.7 Deferred tax movement on fair valued assets 0.7 0.1 Tax losses 7.4 1.3 Other temporary differences 5.4 1.4 Total deferred tax charge 13.9 0.9 Continuing operations 13.9 1.4 Discontinued operations 0.5 Total deferred tax charge 13.9 0.9 The deferred tax movement on the balance sheet is as follows: Group Company 30 June 31 December 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 2012 2010 m m m m As at start of period 16.0 17.2 0.4 Exchange adjustments 0.2 Deferred tax charge credit 13.9 0.9 0.2 0.4 Deferred tax credit charge to equity 0.3 0.5 As at end of period 2.4 16.0 0.2 0.4 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 128 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 Provisions Onerous Disposal Restructuring leases provisions provisions Total m m m m Group At 1 January 2011 41.9 10.7 52.6 Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.1 Unwinding of discount 2.1 0.4 2.5 Impact of change in discount rates charged to the income statement exceptional 4.8 0.3 5.1 Charged to the income statement exceptional 4.7 0.9 5.6 Released to the income statement exceptional 0.6 0.6 Utilised in period 6.9 4.4 0.9 12.2 At 30 June 2012 46.0 6.9 52.9 Current 4.1 2.7 6.8 Non-current 41.9 4.2 46.1 Total 46.0 6.9 52.9 Provisions have been based on managements best estimate of the future cash flows, taking into account the risks associated with each obligation, and have been discounted at a risk free interest rate of between 2.5% and 2.6% 2010: between 3.5% and 4.3% where the effects of inflation will have a material impact.
Onerous leases The Group is party to a number of leasehold property contracts.
Provision has been made against those leases where the property or part of the property is now vacant and the unavoidable costs under the lease exceed the economic benefit expected to be derived from potential sub-letting arrangements.
Provision has also been made against leases where impairment testing has indicated that, after recognising an impairment charge, the estimated discounted cash flows derived from the property and its associated operations are insufficient to cover the unavoidable lease costs and the lease is therefore deemed onerous.
These leases have a weighted average unexpired life of 26 years 2010: 26 years.
Of the provision totalling 46.0m, 22.3m will be utilised over periods ranging from one to 16 years: and the remaining 23.7m will be utilised over periods from one to in excess of 25 years.
Disposal provisions Provision has been made for legacy industrial disease and personal injury claims, deferred payments arising from the settlement of property lease obligations and other directly attributable costs arising as a consequence of the sale or closure of the businesses.
The timing of any personal injury claims are uncertain and therefore these claims have been included in the maturity analysis based on managements best estimates.
The disposal provisions held at 30 June 2012 comprise the following: 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Deferred payments arising on lease settlement and related costs 1.2 2.2 Legacy industrial disease and personal injury claims 4.9 5.7 Other 0.8 2.8 Total disposal provisions 6.9 10.7 Restructuring provisions Details of restructuring provisions are provided in note 4.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 Share capital As at As at 30 June 2012 31 December 2010 Authorised Authorised Nominal Nominal Number value Number value m m m m 8 Ordinary shares of 13 9p each 1,296.0 180.0 1,296.0 180.0 As at As at 30 June 2012 31 December 2010 Issued and fully paid Issued and fully paid Nominal Nominal Number value Number value m m m m At start of period 390.5 54.2 390.5 54.2 Shares issued in period 0.1 At end of period 390.6 54.2 390.5 54.2 During the period 84,112 ordinary shares were issued under the Save As You Earn share option scheme 2010: nil for total consideration of 116,916.
At 30 June 2012 no ordinary shares 31 December 2010: 1,059,826 in the Company were held by the Rank Group Employee Benefit Trust the Trust.
During the period ended 30 June 2012, the Trust acquired 2,448,816 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 0.3m, representing 0.6% of the Companys called-up share capital, for total consideration of 3.4m.
These shares were purchased in relation to LTIP awards which vested during the period.
The amount paid to acquire the shares has been deducted from retained earnings within shareholders equity.
Dividends on the shares held by the Trust have been waived by the trustees with the exception of one penny in respect of each dividend that is paid by the Company.
The Trust may make such investments in the shares of the Company or otherwise as the trustees may determine to provide benefits to any eligible employee.
The benets may be provided in the form of shares, cash or otherwise, although any share-related benefit will be provided in accordance with an appropriate employee share scheme or bonus scheme of the Company.
The shares held by the Trust at 31 December 2010 represented less than 0.3% of the Companys called-up share capital.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the income statement of the Company in the period to which they relate.
The market value of the shares at 31 December 2010 was 1.3m.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 130 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23 Cash generated from operations Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations: Group Company 18 months 12 months 18 months 12 months ended ended ended ended 30 June 31 December 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 2012 2010 m m m m Continuing operations Operating profit 143.1 75.4 152.8 0.3 Exceptional items 48.1 13.4 4.0 Operating profit before exceptional items 95.0 62.0 156.8 0.3 Depreciation and amortisation 57.2 30.3 Reversal of impairment 157.5 Decrease in inventories 0.3 0.2 Increase in other receivables 3.1 1.1 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 2.4 0.3 0.7 Share based payments and other 1.5 1.4 0.7 0.3 153.3 93.1 0.7 Cash utilisation of provisions 12.2 5.7 Cash payments in respect of exceptional items 8.3 6.3 4.0 Cash receipts in respect of exceptional items 85.4 38.4 Cash generated from used in operations 218.2 119.5 4.7 Details of Group cash generated from operations for the 12 months ended 30 June 2012 and the 12 months ended 30 June 2011 are provided in the unaudited appendix to the financial statements on pages 140 to 148.
24 Acquisition and disposal of businesses Acquisition On 23 April 2009, the Group acquired the casino at the Ricoh Arena in Coventry from Isle of Capri Limited for a total purchase consideration of 0.7m.
Deferred consideration paid in respect of this prior period acquisition during the period was 0.2m 2010: 0.1m.
Proposed Acquisition The Group announced on 12 May 2012 that it had conditionally agreed to acquire Gala Casinos from Gala Coral Group Limited for a total cash consideration of 205.0m.
The Group intends to finance the acquisition, along with its related costs and expenses with new three year bank facilities totalling 175.0m together with existing banking facilities.
The circular to shareholders issued on 21 June 2012 in relation to the proposed acquisition of Gala Casinos Limited included the following profit forecast.
On 10 May 2012, Rank published an interim management statement for the 18 and 45 weeks to 6 May 2012, which included the following wording: The Board is encouraged that their UK businesses have continued to make progress and expects the Groups full year performance will be in line with our expectations.
The Notes to Editors section after the end of the interim management statement contained the following reference: Consensus forecasts compiled and published by Rank at www.
com investors show a range of analyst estimates for the 12 months ending 30 June 2012 for adjusted earnings per share of 11.0p to 11.4p, with a mean of 11.2p.
These statements together constitute a profit forecast for the purposes of the Listing Rules.
The actual adjusted earnings per share for the 12 months ending 30 June 2012 was 11.6p.
Disposals On 16 August 2010, the Group disposed of its rails racecourse pitches business in Rank Interactive for a total sales consideration, net of costs, of 0.9m.
The carrying value of the business comprised intangible assets of 1.0m and therefore resulted in a loss on disposal of 0.1m.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25 Cash and short-term deposits Group As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Cash at bank and on hand 37.3 42.3 Short-term deposits 35.2 31.7 Total 72.5 74.0 The analysis of cash and short-term deposits by currency is as follows: Group As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Sterling 67.5 64.1 Euro 4.6 8.9 Other currencies 0.4 1.0 Total 72.5 74.0 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
At 30 June 2012, the Group has available 80.0m 2010: 131.5m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
For the purpose of the statements of cash flow, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: Group As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Cash at bank and on hand 37.3 42.3 Short-term deposits 35.2 31.7 72.5 74.0 Bank overdrafts 2.9 6.5 69.6 67.5 Company At 30 June 2012, the Company had cash and short-term deposits of 0.1m 2010: nil.
26 Employees and directors a Employee benefit expense for the Group during the period 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Wages and salaries 238.7 158.7 Social security costs 26.4 16.7 Pension costs 3.8 2.6 Share-based payments 1.7 1.8 270.6 179.8 The Company has no employees.
The directors of the Group are paid by a subsidiary undertaking.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 132 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED b Average monthly number of employees by segment 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 Grosvenor Casinos 4,115 3,752 Mecca Bingo 4,112 4,145 Rank Interactive 254 197 Top Rank Espaa 523 590 Central 258 253 9,262 8,937 c Key management compensation 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Salaries and short-term employee benets including social security costs 6.6 4.8 Termination benefits 0.7 Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.4 Share-based payments 1.7 1.6 8.9 7.5 Included in key management compensation are bonuses of 1.6m in respect of the current period that will be paid in 2012-13 2010: 0.9m.
Key management is defined as the directors of the Group and the management team, details of which are set out on page 58.
Further details of emoluments received by directors are included in the remuneration report.
d Directors interests The directors interests in shares of the Company, including options to purchase ordinary shares under the terms of the Groups Executive Share Option Scheme, and conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plans, are detailed in the remuneration report.
Details of options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company granted to or exercised by directors in the 18 months ended 30 June 2012 are also detailed in the remuneration report.
e Total emoluments of the directors of The Rank Group Plc 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Salaries, fees and benefits 2.9 1.8 Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.2 3.2 2.0 No director accrued benefits under defined benefit pension schemes in either period.
One director 2010: nil was a member of the Groups defined contribution pension plan.
Further details of emoluments received by directors, including the aggregate amount of gains made by directors upon the vesting of contingent share awards are disclosed in tables 1 and 3 of the remuneration report on pages 84 and 85.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 133 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 Share-based payments During the 18 month period ended 30 June 2012, the Company operated the Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share option scheme, the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS and the Long Term Incentive Plans LTIP.
All of these schemes are equity settled.
Further details of the LTIP are included in the remuneration report on pages 79 to 81.
The SAYE scheme previously offered to all UK employees has now lapsed and all grants under the ESOS have been suspended.
The number and weighted average exercise prices WAEP of, and movements in, each of the share option arrangements during the period are shown below: Outstanding Granted Exercised Expired Forfeited Outstanding Exercisable 1 January during during during during 30 June 30 June 2011 2011 12 2011 12 2011 12 2011 12 2012 2012 ESOS Number of shares 273,568 261,902 11,666 11,666 WAEP 262.82p 262.50p 270.00p 270.00p SAYE Number of shares 919,612 84,112 654,403 22,538 158,559 WAEP 148.70p  139.00p LTIP Number of shares 5,488,703 1,952,826 3,508,642 438,343 366,279 3,128,265 WAEP Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Outstanding Granted Exercised Expired Forfeited Outstanding Exercisable 1 January during during during during 31 December 31 December 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 ESOS Number of shares 280,219 6,651 273,568 273,568 WAEP 263.01p 271.00p 262.82p 262.82p SAYE Number of shares 1,250,730 311,427 19,691 919,612 625,858 WAEP 157.18p 180.46p 184.91p 148.70p 146.21p LTIP Number of shares 4,733,532 1,609,969 465,036 389,762 5,488,703 WAEP Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil The following table lists the maximum term of options granted under each scheme: Maximum term years ESOS 10.0 SAYE 5.5 LTIP 3.0 The share options outstanding at the period ends have the following range of exercise prices and expiry dates as follows: Outstanding at 30 June 2012 Outstanding at 31 December 2010 Weighted Weighted average Number average Number Exercise remaining of shares Exercise remaining of shares prices contractual life under option prices range contractual life under option ESOS 270.00p 0.2 years 11,666 187.50p271.00p 1.3 years 273,568 SAYE 139.00p 0.9 years 158,559 139.00p225.00p 1.4 years 919,612 LTIP Nil 1.4 years 3,128,265 Nil 1.0 years 5,488,703 The fair values for each of ESOS and SAYE awards granted were calculated using a Black-Scholes pricing model.
The fair value of LTIP awards is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation which allows for the incorporation of market performance conditions.
For grants made subject to an EPS performance condition, the expense recognised is based on expectations of these conditions being met, which are reassessed at each balance sheet date.
There have been no ESOS or SAYE awards granted during either period.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 134 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The following table lists the inputs used for the LTIP grants during the periods ended: 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 Risk free interest rate % 1.65 1.11-1.75 Dividend yield % 2.70 2.50-2.90 Expected volatilty % 42.00 49.00 Vesting period Years 3 3 Weighted average share price p 129.30 115.20-118.90 The expected life of the awards is based on current expectations and is not necessarily indicative.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the award is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
The number of LTIP awards and the fair value per share of the LTIP awards granted during the period were as follows: 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 Number 1,952,826 1,609,969 Weighted average fair value per share 79.1p 85.6p The Group recognised a 1.7m 2010: 1.8m charge in operating profit from accounting for share-based payments and related national insurance in accordance with IFRS 2.
National Insurance contributions are payable in respect of some share-based payments.
These contributions are payable on the date of exercise based on the intrinsic value of the share-based payments, and as such are treated as cash-settled awards.
The Group has recorded liabilities at 30 June 2012 of 0.2m 31 December 2010: 0.5m of which nil 31 December 2010: nil was in respect of vested grants.
28 Retirement benefits Defined contribution scheme The Group operates the Rank Group Stakeholder Pension Plan the Plan which is externally funded and the Plans assets are held separately from Group assets.
During the 18 month period to 30 June 2012, the Group contributed a total of 3.8m 2010: 2.6m to the Plan.
There were no significant contributions outstanding at the balance sheet date in either period.
Other pension commitment The Group has an unfunded pension commitment relating to three former executives of the Group.
At 30 June 2012, the Groups commitment was 3.4m 31 December 2010: 3.0m.
The Group paid 0.2m 2010: 0.1m in pension payments during the period.
The net cost arising on the commitment of 0.1m 2010: 0.2m has been recognised in other financial losses in the income statement.
The actuarial loss arising on the commitment, resulting from the changes in assumptions outlined below in 2012, was 0.6m 2010: nil before taxation and 0.5m after taxation 2010: nil.
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses on the commitment recognised in the statement of comprehensive income before taxation was 1.1m 2010: 0.5m.
Assumptions used to determine the obligations at: 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 % p. a.
Discount rate 4.2 5.4 Pension increases 2.9 3.4 The mortality table used to determine the obligation in both periods was the PA92 YOB mc with a 1.5% p. a. minimum improvement.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 135 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29 Commitments Group Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, plant and items of machinery.
These leases have durations of from under one year to 53 years.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Not later than one year 38.0 39.4 After one year but not more than five years 140.2 137.6 After five years 237.5 269.3 415.7 446.3 As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases 26.7 37.8 Finance lease commitments Group as lessee The minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows: Minimum Present value of minimum lease payments lease payments 30 June 31 December 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 2012 2010 m m m m Not later than one year 4.1 2.1 3.0 1.2 After one year but not more than five years 12.4 7.2 9.7 4.2 More than five years 8.0 10.3 6.0 7.8 24.5 19.6 18.7 13.2 Less future finance charges 5.8 6.4 Present value of minimum lease payments 18.7 13.2 As at As at 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases 0.2 0.8 Capital commitments At 30 June 2012, the Group has contracts placed for future capital expenditure, primarily relating to property, plant and equipment, of 1.5m 31 December 2010: 5.9m.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 136 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30 Contingent assets Group The Group has lodged a number of VAT claims that are the subject of on-going litigation but have not yet been paid.
These include, but are not limited to, claims submitted pursuant to the House of Lords decision in the Cond Nast Fleming Fleming cases on the applicability of the three year cap that HMRC introduced to limit VAT reclaims.
Fleming claims, which had to be submitted by March 2009, are based on managements best estimates from the information available and the Group expects HMRC to review closely both the Groups right to the amounts claimed and the value of each claim before settlement.
In a number of cases, the Fleming claims are subject to the successful outcome of other litigation.
This includes the amusement machine litigation outlined in note 31, below.
The combined value of these claims, including simple interest, is currently estimated to be worth more than 275m.
The Group has not recognised any gain in its financial statements at 30 June 2012 in respect of the above items.
Company The Company had no contingent assets at either reporting date.
31 Contingent liabilities Group i Group liabilities relating to Fiscal Neutrality Case On 10 November 2011, the ECJ ruled on the Groups amusement machines claim in relation to the application of VAT to certain types of amusement machines contravening the European Unions principle of fiscal neutrality.
In May 2010, Rank received 30.8m VAT of 26.4m plus interest of 4.4m relating to a claim for repayment of overpaid VAT on amusement machines.
The ECJs decision on the Groups amusement machines claim was not conclusive and was therefore referred back to the UK courts.
The hearing was held in June 2012, with a decision expected in the second half of 2012. ii Grosvenor liability relating to irrecoverable VAT The Group has been in negotiation with HMRC for several years on the means by which it calculates the amount of irrecoverable VAT in Grosvenor Casinos.
The difference in the Groups position as against HMRCs position for the period under negotiation July 2007 to June 2012 amounts to an estimated 8.8m.
Precedent case law indicates that the Groups position is correct and on that basis the irrecoverable VAT charge has been adjusted accordingly.
In the event this was not the case, the Group would have to pay the VAT in dispute see above plus interest.
iii Other duty and VAT In addition, the Group is in discussions with HMRC about a limited number of other VAT and duty issues.
The Group does not anticipate that VAT and duty is due on these issues but in the event that this is not the case a liability of up to 15m could be due.
The directors consider that, in respect of all contingent liabilities disclosed above, it is more likely than not that no outflow will arise.
A summary of the various VAT claims is provided in the tax fact file on page 54.
Company At 30 June 2012, the Company has made guarantees to subsidiary undertakings of 11.2m 31 December 2010: 181.6m.
The Company is the representative member of the Rank VAT group, and as such has joint and several liability for the Group VAT contingent liabilities outlined above.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 137 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32 Related party transactions Group Details of compensation of key management are disclosed in note 26.
Entities with significant influence over the Group On 7 June 2011, Guoco Group Limited Guoco, a company incorporated in Bermuda, and listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange, acquired a controlling interest in The Rank Group Plc.
At 30 June 2012, Guoco owned 74.5% of the Companys shares through a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking, Rank Assets Limited.
The ultimate parent undertaking of Guoco is Hong Leong Company Malaysia Berhad which is incorporated in Malaysia.
Tim Scoble and Mike Smith were appointed as non-executive directors by shareholders at the Companys annual general meeting on 22 April 2010 as appointees of Guoco.
Mike Smith resigned as a director with effect from 30 April 2011 and Tim Scoble became independent on 30 April 2012.
During the 18 months ended 30 June 2012, payments of 63,333 12 months ended 31 December 2010: 52,575 were made to Guoco controlled companies in relation to their fees.
Company The following transactions with subsidiaries occurred in the period: 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2010 m m Dividend received from subsidiary undertaking 77.5 Interest payable to subsidiary undertaking 39.6 23.9 During the period, Rank Group Finance Plc, a subsidiary of the Company, provided additional cash to the Company of 22.8m 2010: 8.1m.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 138 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33 Principal subsidiaries 1 The Company owns directly or indirectly 100% of the ordinary share capital and voting rights of the following companies : Name Country of incorporation Principal activities Mecca Bingo Limited England and Wales Social and bingo clubs Rank Leisure Limited England and Wales Adult gaming centres in Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos Rank Holding Espaa SA Spain Owns the Groups investments in Top Rank Espaa Grosvenor Casinos Limited England and Wales London and provincial casinos Blue Square Gaming Alderney Limited Alderney Interactive gaming and sports betting Rank Interactive Development Limited England and Wales Support services to interactive gaming 2 Blue Square Limited England and Wales Support services to interactive gaming Rank Group Gaming Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company Rank Group Gaming Division Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company and provision of shared services Rank Leisure Holdings Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company and corporate activities 2 Rank Nemo Twenty-Five Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company Rank Overseas Holdings Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company Rank Holdings Netherlands BV Netherlands Intermediary holding company 2 Rank Group Finance Plc England and Wales Funding operations for the Group 1 The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to list all companies.
The table above therefore includes those companies which the directors consider principally affect the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
2 Directly held by the Company.
The principal activities are carried out in the country of incorporation as indicated above.
All principal subsidiary undertakings have also changed to a 30 June year-end.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 139
