OTHER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2012 13 financial calendar Frequently asked questions 31 August 2012 Record date for 2011 12 final dividend We have a shareholder frequently asked questions section on 19 October 2012 Annual general meeting and interim our website which provides answers to many questions that management statement shareholders have: www.
31 October 2012 Payment date for 2011 12 final dividend 31 January 2013 Interim results announcement Share price information 16 May 2013 Interim management statement The latest information on the Rank ordinary share price is available in the Investors area of the www.
Registrar Closing share prices for the previous business day are quoted All administrative enquiries relating to shares should, in in most daily newspapers and, throughout the working day, the first instance, be directed to the Companys registrar time-delayed share prices are broadcast on the text pages of quoting reference number 1235 and clearly state the registered the principal UK television channels.
Please write to The Rank Group Plc Registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Capital gains tax Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: from the UK For the purpose of calculating UK capital gains tax on a disposal 0871 384 2098 and from outside the UK 44 121 415 7047. of ordinary shares in the Company held since 31 March 1982 including shares held in the predecessor company, The Rank There is a text phone available on 0871 384 2255 for Organisation Plc, the price of the Companys ordinary shares at shareholders with hearing difficulties.
This price should be adjusted for Calls to both of the UK numbers are charged at 8p per minute the effects of the rights issue in January 1990, the enhanced from a BT landline.
Other telephony provider costs may vary.
share alternative in July 1993, the sub-division and consolidation of shares in March 1994, the enhanced scrip dividend in March Shareview 1998, and the 18 for 25 sub-division and share consolidation The Shareview portfolio service from the Companys registrar aligned with the 65p special dividend payment which took gives shareholders more control of their Rank shares and other place in March 2007.
More information regarding these investments including: adjustments is available on the www.
direct access to data held for them on the share register including recent share movements and dividend details: Shareholder security We are aware that some of our shareholders have received a recent valuation of their portfolio: and unsolicited telephone calls concerning their Rank shares.
These communications tend to be from overseas-based brokers who a range of information and practical help for shareholders including how you can elect to receive communications offer a premium price for your Rank shares but ask you to make an upfront payment, typically in the form of an insurance electronically.
We recommend that before paying any money you: It is easy and free to set up a portfolio shareholders will just obtain the name of the person and rm contacting you: need the shareholder reference printed on their proxy form or dividend stationery.
Please visit the following website for more check the FSA register at http: www.
uk fsaregister to ensure they are authorised: details: www.
use the details on the FSA Register to contact the rm: Payment of dividends The Company is no longer operating a dividend re-investment call the FSA Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234 if there are plan.
Shareholders may nd it more convenient to make no contact details on the FSA Register or you are told they are arrangements to have dividends paid directly to their bank out of date: and account.
The advantages of this are that the dividend is credited search the FSAs list of unauthorised rms and individuals to to a shareholders bank account on the payment date, there is avoid doing business with: http: www.
uk Pages no need to present cheques for payment and there is no risk of Doing Regulated Law Alerts.
cheques being lost in the post.
If you use an unauthorised rm to buy or sell shares or other To set up a dividend mandate or to change an existing mandate investments, you will not have access to the Financial please contact Equiniti Limited, our registrar, whose contact Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation details are above.
Alternatively, shareholders who use Equinitis Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
Shareview can log on to www.
co. uk and follow the online instructions.
Below, please nd the link to the FSAs website which gives information on scams and swindles which shareholders may Shareholder Information nd helpful: A wide range of information for shareholders and investors is http: www.
uk Pages consumerinformation available in the Investors area of the Rank Group website: scamsandswindles.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 149 OTHER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED Further information on fraud can be found at http: www.
uk Action Frauds helpline is 0300 123 2040.
We recommend that you report any attempted share frauds to the authorities since providing information with regard to how the fraudsters have contacted and dealt with you will assist the authorities in understanding the fraudsters way of operating so as to enable them to disrupt and prevent these activities and prosecute them.
ShareGift Shareholders with a very small number of shares, the value of which may make it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
Further information about ShareGift is available at www.
org or by writing to: ShareGift 17 Carlton House Terrace London SW1Y 5AH Tel: 020 7930 3737 For any other information please contact the following at our registered ofce: Frances Bingham, company secretary Sarah Powell, head of treasury and investor relations Registered ofce The Rank Group Plc, Statesman House, Stafferton Way, Maidenhead SL6 1AY Tel: 01628 504 000 The Rank Group Plc Registered in England and Wales No.
03140769 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 150
