DIRECTORS REPORT: OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Rank is committed to meeting its pledges to our people, our customers, our communities and our natural environment.
sustainable growth can only be achieved through conscientious behaviour.
Ian Burke Chairman and chief executive Our people We offer fair, equal, safe, At Rank we recognise that we have respectful and rewarding employment to all a duty of care to our people, our people who share our commitment to making customers feel valued.
customers, our community and Our customers We will bring enjoyment our natural environment.
We to our customers through leisure experiences understand that we must take these that are fun, sociable and safe.
responsibilities seriously in order Our community We will make a positive difference to the lives of people in the to achieve sustainable growth and locations where we operate through local long-term shareholder value as engagement, community involvement and economic contributions.
well as to remain a trusted part Our natural environment We will reduce of society.
Therefore our corporate the impact of our operations on the natural responsibilty strategy focuses on environment by instilling in our people, our the following four areas: suppliers and our customers an awareness of the environmental impact of their behaviour.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 40 DIRECTORS REPORT: OPERATING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED Our engagement with employees is based upon this Our approach insight, with the following identied as what they T he chief executive sets direction in relation to want in the workplace: corporate responsibility issues and progress against to be given the opportunity to succeed: our pledges is reported on by the chief executives direct reports.
to be valued as individuals: and We have a number of stakeholders that we actively engage with, listening and responding to be safe at work.
to opinions and concerns that are identied.
Our Our progress in each of these three areas is discussed stakeholders include our customers, employees, in the following pages.
shareholders, local communities, government and regulators, Non-Governmental Organisations NGOs The opportunity to succeed and media.
In turn, we have the responsibility, Our people see their own development as a critical and take it upon ourselves, to raise awareness of aspect of what makes work fun and engaging.
Our matters affecting the business.
One example of this ability to help people achieve their potential through is tax legislation, where we maintain an active and training, development and access to new opportunities open programme of engagement with regulators, is a major source of competitive advantage.
governments and other interested parties in order We support our people through a range to promote fairness, responsibility and sustainability of development activities.
As an Institute of see Tax Fact File pages 52 to 55.
Leadership and Management ILM approved centre we are able to provide our employees with Our people accredited qualications through internally delivered programmes.
Our mentoring programme has been awarded the highest accolade, the Gold Standard, by Our people are the key to the International Standard of Mentoring Programmes providing customers fun, in Employment ISMPE.
The assessment team was particularly impressed with the level of support entertaining experiences.
provided by our executive committee.
Sue Waldock Successful people development programmes Human resources director piloted in individual brands are now being rolled out across the Group and new ones designed and implemented.
They build upon best practice from all parts of the organisation to provide opportunities for collaborative working.
We continue to work with a range of prestigious academic institutions to deliver some of these programmes, such as: Craneld University over the last 12 months we were pleased to extend the Rank Leadership Why this is important Programme to a further 25 leaders across the Group.
The strength of our brands depends on the quality of the team members who represent them.
Our ability Institute for Work-Based Learning, Middlesex to entertain and delight our customers depends upon University following the success of our first Masters our people and their motivation to achieve.
programme launched last year, further participants The recruitment and remuneration of employees have enrolled on the course for 2012 13. along with our continued investment in their Birmingham City Business School following development is the largest area of expenditure on from a very successful first cohort, in which within the Group, representing 38% of our total cost some leaders are continuing their professional base over the last 12 months.
By raising engagement development by undertaking an MSc, we are levels across our teams we aim to get best value about to begin a second programme.
through the reduction of employee turnover and increased productivity.
Henley Business School, University of Reading our continued association with Henley is providing Priorities and progress our executives with the opportunity to gain insight Through insight gained from research discussed in into other leading organisations and build their detail on page 42 our people have told us that Rank own capabilities.
is an organisation where everyone counts and this has become the central theme of our people strategy.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 41 DIRECTORS REPORT: OPERATING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED We are proud of the progress our people make as Equal opportunities they realise their goals.
The last 18 months have seen Our people with disabilities are afforded equal several of our people receive recognition for their rights across the Group specically through the achievements from industry bodies.
At this years equal opportunities and employment of disabled Women in Gaming Awards, Mecca employee Janette persons policies.
Guidance and support are given McCracken won leader of the year land-based and to ensure that we create and promote an inclusive Grosvenor Casinos Fiona Regan accepted the team environment for current and future employees of the year award on behalf of Grosvenor Casinos with disabilities.
Ranks finance team received the Building This year we have built our commitment to Public Trust Award for tax reporting in the FTSE 250 supporting our employees with disabilities and have in 2011, the second time the team has received this joined the Employers Forum on Disability where our award.
Ranks tax team received the International leadership teams have access to leading resources that Tax Reviews award for indirect tax in-house team outline practices to help facilitate the integration of of the year in 2012. disabled employees into the workplace.
Our recruitment, development and assessment Being valued as individuals processes enable job candidates with disabilities Over the past 12 months Rank has accelerated its to advise us of their requirements in advance.
This programme of engagement to learn even more about means we are able to ensure that, where possible, we our employees and understand why they work for can make reasonable adjustments for their individual us, what they value and how we can improve their needs which allows them to perform to the best of working lives.
Should an employee become disabled we Insights actively engage with the individual to make any During the year, we developed an employee reasonable adjustments required to continue segmentation model, based on extensive research.
This allow us to tailor our employment proposition Those new to the employment market or to meet the diverse needs of our existing and those returning to it are given support to help prospective employees.
them prepare for interview and demonstrate their A culture where everyone counts is essential individual skills and experience.
to the development of an effective customer service ethic and in conjunction with Empathica, Safety at work a leading customer insight research organisation, We believe that our employees have the right to feel we have implemented a Colleagues as Customers safe and protected at work.
This provides feedback from colleagues Our commitment to this aim is demonstrated by within the business enabling us to improve the level the level of scrutiny applied to this area.
Ranks chief of internal service we offer.
We believe that this will executive takes responsibility for the Groups health allow our people to meet the needs of our customers and safety policies and performance and each of our more effectively.
managing directors accepts the same responsibility Attracting talent for their businesses.
The board is informed of health To meet the individual career aspirations of and safety issues on a regular basis and we engage our people, and prospective employees, we are with the broader workforce on these matters.
developing an online recruitment, induction and on-boarding system.
This ensures our new Our performance employees have a consistent recruitment and We have maintained our positive employee induction experience from the time they view engagement results which are measured through our job advertisement through to the completion rolling quarterly surveys.
Employee turnover within our businesses has For more information on our new recruitment continued to trend at historically low levels.
portals please follow the links: meccabingocareers.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 42 DIRECTORS REPORT: OPERATING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED a small minority of people may be vulnerable to Our customers problem behaviours.
We understand that in meeting the Ranks Stay in Control website entertainment needs of the majority we must nevertheless protect and assist that small minority gives our customers the of people that might be prone to gambling-related information they need to enjoy difficulties.
We have established a responsible gaming policy to express our position which is shown in the gambling safely.
Richard Wade Our commitment to this policy is demonstrated by the high level of scrutiny that we apply to Director of responsible gambling responsible gaming, with bi-annual reviews by the Group main board and audit committee and quarterly reviews by our responsible gambling committee.
Whilst we continue to strive for improvement, we are proud of our record in this area, which is built on a commitment to the welfare of our customers and a clear cross-Group policy for Why this is important responsible gaming.
Our ability to entertain our customers in a safe Our venues are considered to be amongst the and responsible fashion is the cornerstone of our safest environments for gaming to take place and business model, affecting both the popularity of we have continued to invest significant resources our brands and in extreme circumstances our in this area over the last 18 months, including: licence to operate.
a 423,000 contribution to The Responsible Gambling Trust to fund counselling for problem Priorities and progress gamblers and research into treatment: We made considerable progress in delivering thrills and entertainment to more than 2.6 million promotion of GamCares helpline and netline in customers, achieving a further improvement in our our venues and interactive channels: net promoter score.
However, we recognise that Our responsible gaming policy Objectives Progress Clear customer communication Ranks Stay In Control communication programme, which provides to promote responsible play customers with written material provided in our venues and a dedicated and to provide advice for those website www.
com, has been improved to provide concerned about problem gaming further information to our customers.
Establish and maintain Employee training to identify at-risk customers and intervening to processes to identify and provide support.
More than 94% of Ranks 6,576 customer-facing prevent problem gambling employees in Great Britain have qualied from this training module.
We have established a requirement for customer-facing employees to undergo a responsible gaming assessment two years after qualifying from training.
Online sites operate mechanisms designed to identify the early signs of problem gambling and direct at-risk customers to appropriate support.
We work hard to prevent any Proof of age requirements in our venues and age verication procedures underage gambling in our online to prevent under-age gambling we require customers to be 18 venues or online years or older to enter our bingo clubs and casinos in Britain and Spain: in Belgium the minimum age is 21 years.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 43 DIRECTORS REPORT: OPERATING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED promotion of the Gambling Commissions Our priorities and our progress gambleaware.
co. uk website on all Rank Interactive Marie Curie Cancer Care has been Ranks nominated channels and within venues: and charity for the last three years.
By the end of 2012, we aim to have raised more than 1 million by promotion of Ranks dedicated online portal supporting the charitys signature fundraising events, www.
com to promote the Great Daffodil Appeal and Blooming Great Tea responsible gaming.
Parties: and by organising our own fundraisers.
Over the course of the last 18 months, Grosvenor Casinos arranged a series of extreme poker events, with Performance team members playing poker in a range of unusual GamCare accreditation achieved for Grosvenor locations from a shark pool to the bottom of a Casinos and Blue Square since 2007 and Mecca mine shaft.
Meccas efforts on behalf of Marie Curie Bingo since 2008 : Cancer Care included a group skydive.
Mecca also 117 of the customers who decided to exclude took part in the UK Corporate Challenge to raise themselves from our venues breached this exclusion money for the Dame Kelly Holmes Legacy Trust.
in 2011 1% of the total number of self-exclusion breaches across the betting and gaming industry in Our performance Great Britain: and 21 reported incidents of underage gambling Over the last 18 months: within Ranks club venues in Great Britain 0.03% more than 525,000 has been raised for Marie of the national total.
Curie Cancer which has funded respite care for cancer patients in our communities: Our communities we have provided employment for more than 9,200 people across Great Britain, The Rank Group partnership Spain and Belgium: has gone from strength to we have increased the number of employees in strength over the last two and our team by 400 since the end of 2010: a half years and we are proud we have invested more than 70 million in to be partnered with an capital projects: and organisation that is so we have directly generated 265.3m in taxes.
committed to making a difference to our cause.
Fabian French, director of fundraising for Marie Curie Cancer Care Why this is important Earning the trust of our customers, team members, suppliers, councillors and neighbours is critical to our success.
We target investment at both a national and local level through our support for a agship charity with nationwide coverage that directs support to where it is needed locally.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 44 DIRECTORS REPORT: OPERATING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED We are also working with our suppliers to reduce Our natural environment our impact on the environment.
This year we have worked with waste management business Biffa to Why this is important increase the amount of waste which Rank recycles.
Many of our people and our customers care deeply This reduces the amount of waste Rank adds about the natural environment.
important to them, it is important to us.
We actively Over the next 12 months we will be looking at encourage our people and our customers to make more ways to reduce our carbon emissions, including sure Ranks impact on the environment is reduced.
the roll out of more efficient means of lighting our Such programmes also make good business sense premises.
We are also considering the viability of as they reduce the waste Rank produces and the introducing solar power and water consumption amount of energy the business consumes.
Our priorities and our progress Performance Over the last 18 months our focus has been on All of our UK sites have achieved the Carbon Trust evaluating the extent of our carbon emissions and Standard which is awarded to those business and identifying actions that will reduce those emissions.
public-sector organisations which have a proven We have set ourselves a target to reduce our carbon record of recording, managing and reducing the emissions by 12,000 tonnes by the end of 2012.
We carbon consumption of their estate.
will report back on this in our 2013 Annual Report In 2011 Rank reduced its carbon emissions by and via our corporate website.
This meant that Ranks Carbon Reduction Each of our venues has an individual with Commitment fee fell by 0.1m.
responsibility for promoting the implementation The percentage of the total waste recycled of our environmental programme.
These energy by Rank rose by 24.8% over the course of the last champions were supported by a dedicated website 12 months.
com and the establishment of a quarterly reward scheme Further information: recognising excellence in environmental initiatives.
jsp This has become increasingly competitive as a growing number of teams submit case histories documenting their projects.
Our support ofce in Maidenhead has also been involved with the organisation of the Groups first environmental day, Go Green day, in June 2012.
Our teams were encouraged to focus on ways to reduce carbon and waste across the estate.
To celebrate the success of this day, we planted 100 trees to recognise the best 100 ideas generated.
Our venues celebrated Go Green day with a range of initiatives including getting to work without cars, paperless days and special collections of recyclable items.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 45
