Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors are responsible for the Disclosure of Information to Auditors the Annual Report, the Directors maintenance and integrity of the Companys The Directors, having made appropriate Remuneration Report and the financial website.
Legislation in the UK governing the enquiries, state that: statements in accordance with applicable preparation and dissemination of financial a So far as each Director is aware, there is no law and regulations.
statements may differ from legislation in relevant audit information of which the other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Companys auditors are unaware: and financial statements for each financial year.
Each of the Directors, whose names and b Each Director has taken all the steps that Under that law the Directors have prepared the functions are listed on page 18 confirms that, he she ought to have taken as a Director Group financial statements in accordance with to the best of their knowledge: to make him herself aware of any relevant IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the Parent The Group financial statements, which have audit information and to establish that Company financial statements in accordance been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as the Companys auditors are aware of with United Kingdom UK Generally Accepted adopted by the EU and IFRSs as issued by the that information.
Accounting Practice United Kingdom IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In liabilities, financial position and profit of the preparing the Group financial statements, the Group: and Directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs By Order of the Board issued by the International Accounting The Report of the Directors includes a fair Standards Board IASB.
Under company law review of the development and performance Elizabeth Richardson the Directors must not approve the financial of the business and the position of the Company Secretary statements unless they are satisfied that they Group, together with a description of the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc give a true and fair view of the state of affairs principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
103-105 Bath Road of the Group and the Company and of the Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH Going Concern profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The Groups business activities, together with Company registration number: 6270876 In preparing these financial statements, the the factors likely to affect its future 8 March 2013 Directors are required to: development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 10 to 17.
Select suitable accounting policies and then The financial position of the Group and apply them consistently.
Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and Make judgements and accounting estimates borrowing facilities, as well as the Groups that are reasonable and prudent.
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management State whether IFRSs as adopted by the EU objectives: details of its financial instruments and IFRSs issued by IASB and applicable UK and hedging activities: and its exposure to Accounting Standards have been followed, credit risk and liquidity risk are described in the subject to any material departures disclosed Business Review on page 14 and in note 14 to and explained in the Group and Parent the Group financial statements.
The Group has considerable financial resources Prepare the financial statements on the together with a diverse customer and supplier going concern basis unless it is inappropriate base across different geographical areas and to presume that the Company will continue categories.
As a consequence, the Directors in business.
believe that the Group and Company are well The Directors are responsible for keeping placed to manage their business risks adequate accounting records that are sufficient successfully despite the current uncertain to show and explain the Companys economic outlook.
transactions and disclose with reasonable The Directors have a reasonable expectation accuracy at any time the financial position that the Group and Company have adequate of the Company and the Group and enable resources to continue in operational existence them to ensure that the financial statements for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue and the Directors Remuneration Report to adopt the going concern basis of accounting comply with the 2006 Act and, as regards in preparing the annual financial statements in the Group financial statements, Article 4 of accordance with the FRCs Going Concern and the IAS Regulation.
Liquidity Risk: Guidance For Directors of UK They are also responsible for safeguarding the Companies 2009.
This statement is also made assets of the Company and the Group and to fulfil the requirements of Listing Rules hence for taking reasonable steps for the 9.8.
10R 1 and C. 1.2 of prevention and detection of fraud and the Code.
