Parent Company Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc We have audited the Parent Company financial Opinion on Financial Statements Other Matter statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for the In our opinion the Parent Company We have reported separately on the group year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise financial statements: financial statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group the Parent Company balance sheet and the plc for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Give a true and fair view of the state of the related notes.
The financial reporting framework Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012: that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards Have been properly prepared in accordance UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor Practice: and Respective Responsibilities of Directors for and on behalf of and Auditors Have been prepared in accordance with the  LLP As explained more fully in the Statement of requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Directors Responsibilities set out on page 30, London Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the Directors are responsible for the preparation 8 March 2013 the Companies Act 2006 of the Parent Company financial statements In our opinion: and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the The part of the Directors Remuneration Parent Company financial statements in Report to be audited has been properly accordance with applicable law and prepared in accordance with the Companies International Standards on Auditing UK and Act 2006: and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply The information given in the Report of the with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Directors for the financial year for which the Standards for Auditors.
Parent Company financial statements are This Report, including the opinions, has been prepared is consistent with the Parent prepared for and only for the Companys Company financial statements.
members as a body in accordance with Chapter Matters on which We are Required to 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for Report by Exception no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these We have nothing to report in respect of opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any the following matters where the Companies other purpose or to any other person to whom Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in this Report is shown or into whose hands it may our opinion: come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns Scope of the Audit of the Financial adequate for our audit have not been received Statements from branches not visited by us: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial The Parent Company financial statements and statements sufficient to give reasonable the part of the Directors Remuneration assurance that the financial statements are Report to be audited are not in agreement free from material misstatement, whether with the accounting records and returns: or caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration assessment of: whether the accounting policies specified by law are not made: or are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently We have not received all the information and applied and adequately disclosed: the explanations we require for our audit.
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our Report.
