FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 200 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 Information for Reed Elsevier PLC The Annual Reports and Financial Statements for the ordinary shareholders ReedElsevier combined businesses, Reed Elsevier PLC and ReedElsevier NV for the year ended 31 December 2012, and Shareholder services theCorporate Governance Statement of Reed Elsevier NV are The Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share register is administered available on the Reed Elsevier website, and from the registered by Equiniti Limited.
Equiniti provides a free online portal for ofces of the respective parent companies shown on page 202. shareholders at www.
Shareview provides Additional financial information, including the interim and shareholders with instant access to details of their shareholdings full-year results announcements, Interim Management and dividend payments, with the ability to update personal details Statements and presentations is also available on the and to register a bank mandate for dividend payments.
contact details appear on page 202.
The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements set out in theAnnual Reports and Financial Statements are expressed in Electronic communications sterling, with summary combined financial information expressed While hard copy shareholder communications continue to be in euros.
The financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC and available to those shareholders requesting them, in accordance ReedElsevier NV are expressed in sterling and euros respectively.
with the Companies Act 2006 and the company's Articles, Reed Elsevier PLC uses the Reed Elsevier website as the main method Interim results of communicating with shareholders.
By registering their details Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV no longer publish online at Shareview, shareholders can be notied by email when interim results in hard copy.
The interim results are available shareholder communications are published on the website.
on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
Shareholders can also use the Shareview website to appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at shareholder meetings.
Share price information Shareholders who hold their Reed Elsevier PLC shares through Reed Elsevier PLCs ordinary shares are quoted on the London CREST may appoint proxies for shareholder meetings through Stock Exchange.
the CREST electronic proxy appointment service by using the Reed Elsevier NVs ordinary shares are quoted on the NYSE procedures described in the CREST manual.
Dividend mandates The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares are Shareholders are encouraged to have their dividends paid directly quoted on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American into a UK bank or building society account.
This method of payment Depositary Shares ADSs, evidenced by American Depositary reduces the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post Receipts ADRs.
Each Reed Elsevier PLC ADR represents four and ensures the account is credited on the dividend payment Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
Each Reed Elsevier NV ADR date.
A dividend mandate form can be obtained online at represents two Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares.
co. uk, or by contacting Equiniti at the address The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share shown on page 202. prices and the ADR prices may be obtained from the Reed Elsevier Equiniti has established a service for overseas shareholders website, other online sources and the financial pages of some in over 90 countries, which enables shareholders to have their newspapers.
dividends automatically converted from sterling and paid directly FOR FURTHER INFORMATION VISIT WWW.
COM into their nominated bank account.
Further details of this service, and the fees applicable, are available at www.
co. uk or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 202. Dividend Reinvestment Plan Shareholders can choose to reinvest their Reed Elsevier PLC dividends by purchasing further shares through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP provided by Equiniti.
Further information concerning the DRIP facility, together with the terms and conditions and an application form can be obtained online at www.
co. uk dividends or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 202.
Share dealing service A telephone and internet dealing service is available through Reed Elsevier PLCs Registrar, Equiniti, which provides a simple way for UK-resident shareholders to buy or sell Reed Elsevier PLC shares.
For telephone dealing call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing log on to www.
You will need your shareholder account number shown on your dividend tax voucher.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 201 Individual savings account ISA Information for Reed Elsevier NV A single company ISA for Reed Elsevier PLC shares is available ordinary shareholders through Equiniti.
Details may be obtained from www.
co. uk ISA, by writing to Equiniti at the address Shareholder enquiries shown on page 202, or by calling their ISA helpline on 0871 384 2244.
Enquiries from holders of Reed Elsevier NV registered ordinary shares in relation to share transfers, dividends, change of address ShareGift and bank accounts should be directed to the Company Secretary The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation ofReed Elsevier NV, at the registered ofce address shown on scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose page 202. value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme can be obtained from the ShareGift website at www.
org, Dividends or by telephoning ShareGift on 020 7930 3737.
Dividends on Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares are declared and paid in euros.
Registered shareholders in Reed Elsevier NV will Sub-division of ordinary shares and share consolidation receive dividends from the company by transmission to the bank On 28 July 1986, each Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share of 1 account which they have notied to the company.
Dividends on nominal value was sub-divided into four ordinary shares of 25p shares in bearer form are paid through the intermediary of a each.
On 2 May 1997, each 25p ordinary share was sub-divided into bank or broker.
two ordinary shares of 12.5p each.
On 7 January 2008, the ordinary shares of 12.5p each were consolidated on the basis of 58 new 51 Dividend Reinvestment Plan ordinary shares of 14 116p nominal value for every 67 ordinary By instructing their bank or intermediary, shareholders can shares of 12.5p each held.
choose to reinvest their Reed Elsevier NV dividends by purchasing further shares through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Capital gains tax provided by ABN AMRO Bank NV.
Further information concerning The mid-market price of Reed Elsevier PLCs 1 ordinary shares the DRIP facility can be obtained online at www.
Adjusting for the sub-divisions and share consolidation referred to above results in an equivalent Consolidation of ordinary shares mid-market price of 40.72p for each existing ordinary share of 51 On 7 January 2008 the Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share of 0.06 14 116p nominal value.
each were consolidated on the basis of 58 new ordinary shares of 0.07 each for every 67 ordinary shares of 0.06 each held.
Warning to shareholders unsolicited investment advice Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning Information for Reed Elsevier PLC and investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based Reed Elsevier NV ADRholders brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ADR Depositary is investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler BNY Mellon.
Reed Elsevier PLCs CUSIP number is 758205207 and its trading Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited symbol is RUK.
Each Reed Elsevier PLC ADR represents four advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice, check Reed Elsevier NVs CUSIP number is 758204200 and its trading that the person or organisation is properly authorised by the FSA symbol is ENL.
Each Reed Elsevier NV ADR represents two before getting involved by visiting www.
uk fsaregister Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares.
and contacting the rm using the details on the register.
If you deal with an unauthorised rm, you will not be eligible to receive ADR shareholder services payment under the Financial Service Compensation Scheme.
Enquiries concerning Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV The FSA can be contacted at www.
uk pages doing ADRs should be addressed to the ADR Depositary at the address regulated law alerts overseas.
Dividends Dividend payments on Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ADRs are converted into US dollars by the ADR Depositary.
Annual Report on Form 20-F The Annual Report on Form 20-F for the Reed Elsevier combined businesses, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV is led electronically with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
A copy of Form 20-F is available on the Reed Elsevier website, or from the ADR Depositary at the address shown on page202.
