Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 41.
Subsidiary undertakings The following are the subsidiary undertakings of Renishaw plc, all of which are wholly-owned, unless otherwise stated, and all of whichare consolidated into the results of the Group.
The country of incorporation and registration is England and Wales unless otherwise stated.
The country ofincorporation is also the country of operation.
The accounting year end for each subsidiary undertaking is 30thJune unless otherwise stated.
Theshareholdings in all the subsidiary undertakings are in the ordinary share capitalof those undertakings.
Company Principal activities Renishaw International Limited Overseas holding and investment company.
Manufacture and sale of advanced precision metrology Renishaw Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland and inspection equipment.
Service, distribution, research and development Renishaw S. A. S. France and manufacture of group products.
Manufacture and sale of advanced precision metrology and inspection itp GmbH Germany equipment.
Wotton Travel Limited Travel agency.
Design and sale of molecular diagnostics and surface-enhanced Raman Renishaw Diagnostics Limited 92.4% Scotland spectroscopy products.
75% Switzerland Manufacture and sale of surgical robots for neurosurgical applications.
Renishaw Metrology Systems Private Limited Manufacture and sale of advanced precision metrology India 31st March and inspection equipment.
Measurement Devices Limited 66% 31st December Manufacture and sale of laser scanning equipment.
Thomas Engineering and Construction Limited Distribution and service of laser scanning equipment.
Canada 28th February Manufacture and sale of additive manufacturing and rapid prototyping MTT Investments Limited systems.
Renishaw Advanced Materials Limited 55% Sale of diamond-like carbon coatings and shape memory alloys.
Renishaw Software Limited 31st December Development and sale of software solutions.
R&R Sales LLC USA 31st December Manufacture and sales of xturing products.
Company principal activity is the service and distribution of group products Renishaw Inc USA Renishaw Sp.
z o. o. Poland Renishaw KK Japan OOO Renishaw Russia 31st December Renishaw GmbH Germany Renishaw AB Sweden Renishaw S. p. A. Italy Renishaw Austria GmbH Austria Renishaw Ibrica S. A. U. Spain Renishaw Korea Limited South Korea Renishaw AG Switzerland Renishaw Canada Limited Canada Renishaw Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Renishaw Israel Limited Israel Renishaw Shanghai Trading Company Limited Renishaw Latino Americana Ltda.
Brazil 31st December ThePeoplesRepublic of China 31st December Renishaw Benelux BV The Netherlands Renishaw Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Renishaw Oceania Pty Limited Australia Renishaw Taiwan Inc Taiwan Renishaw s. r. o. Czech Republic Renishaw Mxico, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico Equity held by a subsidiary undertaking.
