Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 1.
Accounting policies continued Foreign-based employees are covered by state, dened benefit and private pension schemes in their countries of residence.
Actuarial valuations of foreign pension schemes were not obtained, apart from Ireland, because of the limited number of foreign employees.
For dened contribution schemes, the amount charged to the Consolidated income statement represents the contributions payable tothe schemes inrespect of the accounting period.
Accruals are made for holiday pay, based on a calculation of the number of days holiday earned during the year, but not yet taken.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short-term with an original maturity of less than three months deposits.
Bankoverdrafts that are repayable on demand form part of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated statement of cash ow.
Dividends Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately declared and authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Taxation Tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Consolidated income statement except tothe extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and expense.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are items which due to their size, incidence and non-recurring nature have been classied separately in order to draw them to the attention of the reader of the accounts and, in managements judgement, to show more accurately the underlying results of the Group.
Such items areincluded within the Consolidated income statement caption to which they relate and are disclosed separately on the face of the Consolidated income statement.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business review, where also given are details of the financial and liquidity positions.
In addition, note 22 in the financial statements includes the Groups objectives and policies for managing its capital, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidityrisk.
The Group has considerable financial resources at its disposal and the directors have considered the current financial projections.
Asaconsequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue inoperational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual report andaccounts.
