Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Directors corporate governance report continued The committee meets at least three times a year with the Group Board and committee membership Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Audit attendance record Manager and the external auditors in attendance.
At least one Shown against each directors name is the number of meetings of meeting, or part, is held with the external auditors without the Board and its committees at which the director was present executive directors present.
and, in brackets, the number of meetings that the director was eligible to attend during the year.
D. Remuneration The Directors remuneration report explains how the Company Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board committee committee committee applies the Code principles relating to remuneration.
Sir David McMurtry 10 10 2 2 E. Relations with shareholders D J Deer 10 10 Dialogue with institutional shareholders B R Taylor 10 10 Presentations are given to institutional investors following A C G Roberts 10 10 publication of the half-year and full-year results, following which G McFarland 9 10 interim reports are published and annual reports are delivered to T B Garthwaite 10 10 3 3 2 2 2 2 all shareholders.
The interim and annual results and presentations are posted on the Companys website promptly after D Grant 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 announcement of the results to the UK Listing Authority via an T D Snowden 10 10 2 3 2 2 2 2 RIS.
Institutional investors are actively encouraged to visit the W H Whiteley 9 10 2 3 2 2 1 2 Companys headquarters and manufacturing sites where they D Grant was appointed on 25th April 2012. willmeet at least one of the executive directors and have the opportunity of discussing any issues with them.
Meetings with Compliance statement investors, analysts and media are reported to the Board and The Board considers that it has complied with the requirements analysts and brokers reports circulated so that the Board of the Code throughout the year except in relation to the following develops an understanding of the views of investors and others.
matters the reasons for non-compliance are stated in the report Non-executive directors are available to attend planned meetings above : with major shareholders.
All directors attend the AGM and are the combined role of chairman and chief executive: and available to meet shareholders after the meeting.
at least half the Board did not comprise independent Constructive use of the AGM non-executive directors.
The AGM takes place at the Companys headquarters or oneofthe Companys sites and formal notication is sent to theshareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
W H Whiteley Abusiness presentation is given at the meeting and all directors Senior independent director are available for questions during and after the meeting, including the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 25th July 2012 committees.
Tours of the Companys facilities are offered.
The Company reports on the number of proxy votes lodged on each resolution, the balance for and against each resolution and the number of votes withheld after the resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
This information is provided to the shareholders attending the AGM and published via an RIS and on the Companys website following the meeting.
6 R The information regarding share capital required to be disclosed by this rule is contained in the Other statutory and regulatory disclosures.
