Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the Company financial statements 27.
Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements of the Company.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK GAAP.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Under FRS 1 the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash ow statement on the grounds that a parent undertaking includes the Company in its own published consolidated financial statements.
Advantage has been taken of FRS 8 Related party disclosures not to disclose transactions with subsidiaries on the basis that all transactions were with members of the Group, 100% of whose voting rights were controlled.
The Company has adopted FRS 29 Financial Instruments Disclosures, which came into effect from 1st January 2007.
However, the Company has taken the exemption available to parent companies not to present financial instrument disclosures as the Group financial statements contain disclosures that comply with the standard.
Investments Investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings are stated at cost less any provision for permanent impairment losses.
Tangible assets and depreciation Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of assets less their estimated residual value on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Plant and equipment 3 to 10 years Motor vehicles 3 to 4 years No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Dividends Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately declared and authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Research and development Research and development expenditure is charged to profit and loss account in the year in which it is incurred.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the Company profit for the year.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes, which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Long-term amount owed by a group undertaking A balance owing to the Company by a subsidiary undertaking, which is expected to be repaid over a number of years, has been initially valued at fair value and is valued at amortised cost thereafter.
Employee benets The Company operated a contributory pension scheme, of the dened benefit type up to 5th April 2007, after which this scheme was closed for future accruals to existing members and was closed to new members.
Since 5th April 2007, the Company has operated a dened contribution scheme, which is part of the same scheme.
The scheme is administered by trustees who are independent of the Company nances.
Pension scheme assets in the dened benefit scheme are measured using market value.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The expected return on the schemes assets and the interest on the schemes liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in other finance income.
The pension schemes surplus, to the extent that it is considered recoverable, or deficit is recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet net of the related deferred tax.
Accruals are made for holiday pay, based on a calculation of the number of days holiday earned during the year, but not yet taken and also for the annual performance bonus.
