Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Directors corporate governance report The role of Chairman and Chief Executive is a combined role and A.
Leadership thus contrary to the recommendations of the Code.
Sir David The role of the Board McMurtry has held this position since the Company became The Board comprises five executive and four non-executive aquoted company and he, together with John Deer, holds directors.
The directors holding ofce at the date of this report themajority of the voting interests in the Company.
The Board and short biographical details are given on pages 12 and 13. considers that there is still a clear division of responsibilities Fullbiographical details are available on www.
atboard level to ensure an appropriate balance of power and TheCompany maintains liability insurance for its directors authority.
The Board and Executive Board meet on a regular andofcers as disclosed in the Other statutory and basis to make decisions of signicance to the two business .
segments and review management actions.
It is intended that this The Board focuses on formulation of strategy, management of combined role will continue for so long as Sir David McMurtry effective business controls and review of business performance.
remains on the Board and he and John Deer hold a majority of There is a formal schedule of matters specically reserved to it the voting interests in the Company.
These include the approval of annual and interim The Chairman has no other significant commitments as regards results and interim management statements, company and employment or directorships of other companies.
business acquisitions and disposals, major capital expenditure, borrowings, material agreements, director and company Non-executive directors secretary appointments and removals, any patent-related The senior independent director is Bill Whiteley and he is available disputeand other material litigation, forecasts and major to discuss concerns with shareholders should the normal productdevelopment projects.
channels of the Chairman and Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director fail to resolve such concerns, or for which The Board meets as often as is necessary to discharge its duties suchcontact is inappropriate.
The non-executive directors meet effectively.
In the financial year ended 30th June 2012, the Board without the executive directors present to discuss performance met ten times and the directors attendance record at Board and other matters.
andcommittee meetings is set out at the end of this report.
Inaddition, the non-executive directors met a number of times B.
Effectiveness without executive directors present.
Composition of the Board The Board has three formally constituted committees, the Audit All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board committee, the Remuneration committee and the Nomination tobeindependent in character and judgement and there are committee.
norelationships or circumstances that are likely to affect a non-executive directors judgement.
Terry Garthwaite and There is an executive management committee known as DavidSnowden, appointed to the Board on 1st July 2003, have theExecutive Board that is responsible for the executive completed nine years as directors of the Company and therefore management of the Groups businesses.
It is chaired by the will not be seeking re-election at the forthcoming AGM on Chairman and includes the executive directors of Renishaw plc 18thOctober 2012.
It is also noted that Terry Garthwaite and and other senior management representatives responsible for BillWhiteley are both on the Board of Brammer plc.
This situation two core product lines of the Group and the North and Central has been reviewed and the Board has concluded that there American market.
The Executive Board usually meets for two isnoimpact on either of them so far as their independence days on a monthly basis and considers the performance and isconcerned.
strategic direction of the metrology business on one day and on the other, the healthcare business and other matters of general The Code recommends that at least half the Board, excluding the importance to the Group.
In addition, there is an executive sales Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
and marketing committee known as the International Sales The Board does not comply with this requirement and, as noted andMarketing Board which meets quarterly to determine the below, a recruitment process is currently being undertaken.
Groupssales and marketing policies and strategies and review Itisnoted that during the 2013 financial year, Terry Garthwaite the activities.
This committee is chaired by the Deputy Chairman and David Snowden will not seek re-election to the Board.
andincludes the Assistant Chief Executive and Group Finance Consideration will be given to recruiting a further non-executive Director plus the managing directors of the five largest sales director when a review of the skills and experience of the Board territories and the Director of Sales Development.
has been undertaken in light of the recent and forthcoming changes to board personnel.
A framework of delegated authorities is in place that maps outthestructure of delegation below board level and includes thematters reserved to the Executive Board and the level of authorities given to management below the Executive Board.
The Board has adopted a conict of interests policy, putting inplace procedures for the disclosure and review of any conicts and potential conicts and authorisation by the Board if felt appropriate.
Authorisations granted and the terms of such arereviewed on an annual basis.
New disclosures are made where applicable.
49 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Directors corporate governance report continued Appointments to the Board Development The Nomination committee is responsible for reviewing the Directors are offered the opportunity to attend formal training structure and composition of the Board and nominating courses to update their knowledge of their duties as directors.
candidates for appointment to the Board.
The majority of the Guidancenotes on changes to law and regulations are provided members of this committee are independent non-executive in board reports and otherwise as appropriate.
Non-executive directors and the members and the chair of the committee directors are invited to attend internal conferences, which provide areshown on pages 12 and 13.
The terms of reference of information to the Group on new product development and thiscommittee are published on the Companys website.
Business presentations are given at board Thissection of the Annual report describes the work of meetings to provide updates on and opportunities to discuss theNomination committee.
One new appointment was made to the Board during the year.
An induction pack is provided to new appointees to the Board David Grant became known to the Board as a result of his and induction procedures include site visits, briengs by senior association with the Company in his capacity of vice-chancellor managers and meetings with major shareholders at appropriate ofCardiff University which has 30,000 students, 6,000 members opportunities.
of staff and an annual income of 430m.
His previous lengthy Information and support experience in the industrial engineering sector, including Dowty The Board receives appropriate documentation, management Group and GEC, and his knowledge and contacts with academic accounts, forecasts and commentaries thereon in advance of institutions make him a well-qualied addition to the Boards each board meeting to enable its members to review the financial resources.
performance of the Group, current trading and key business A recruitment consultant, Augmentum Consulting, was engaged initiatives.
The Company Secretary advises the Board on all to seek an appropriate candidate to take on the role of chair of governance matters.
All directors have access to the Company the Audit committee with effect from the next AGM and was Secretary and toindependent professional advice at the provided a job specication for this purpose.
The shortlist for Companys expense where necessary to discharge their interview was to include candidates that have the required skills responsibilities as directors.
Theappointment and removal and experience and, where possible, primarily female candidates.
oftheCompany Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Augmentum Consulting has no connection with the Company.
The recruitment process is ongoing.
Evaluation The Board has established a formal process, led by the The Board has considered the recommendations of the Women seniorindependent director, for the annual evaluation of the on Boards report issued by Lord Davies of Abersoch as regards performance ofthe Board.
This includes the completion of a setting out aspirations for the appointment of women to the questionnaire designed and approved by the Board to provide Board by 2013 and 2015 and has decided that it is inappropriate aframework for theevaluation process.
It is the role of the senior to set out any levels that may require positive discrimination in this independent director to summarise the responses and discuss respect, as the overriding need is to appoint directors with the them with individual directors and with the Board as a whole.
necessary skills and experience for the role.
However, the Board Thecommittees undertake a similar evaluation process led by acknowledges that diversity of all types should be borne in mind thechair of the relevant committee.
when recruiting for all roles within the Group and has a policy to provide for equal opportunities to all.
Re-election In accordance with the Code all the directors will retire from the Commitment Board at the next AGM and, except inthe case of any director The terms of appointment of the non-executive directors, which who has decided to stand down from the Board, will offer includes the expected time commitment from non-executive themselves up for re-election at the AGM.
directors and requiring any changes to other significant commitments to be discussed with the Chairman and Chief Executive in advance, areavailable for inspection at the AGM andat the registered ofce upon written request.
None of the executive directors holds a directorship in a FTSE100 company.
