Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes forming part of the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation Renishaw plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates.
The group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRS and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these group financial statements.
Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are noted below.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, subject to items referred to in the derivative financial instruments note below.
The accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied in preparing both the 2011 and 2012 financial statements.
Critical accounting judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the next financial year are listed below: i Impairment of goodwill Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of cash generating units CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the future cash ows of CGUs and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, which involves judgement, to calculate present values see note 10. ii Dened benefit pension scheme liabilities Determining the value of the future dened benefit obligation requires judgement in respect of the assumptions used to calculate present values.
Theseinclude future mortality, discount rate, ination and salary increases.
Management makes these judgements in consultation with an independent actuary.
Details of the estimates and judgements in respect of the current year are given in note 15. iii Amortisation of intangibles and impairment The periods of amortisation of intangible assets require judgements to be made on the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets todetermine anappropriate rate of amortisation.
Future assessments of impairment may lead to the writing off of certain amounts ofintangible assets and the consequent charge in the Consolidated income statement for the accelerated amortisation.
iv Capitalisation of development costs Product development costs are capitalised once a project has reached a certain stage of development and these costs are subsequently amortised over a five-year period.
Judgements are required to assess whether the new product development has reached the appropriate point for capitalisation of costs to begin.
Should a product be subsequently obsoleted, the accumulated capitalised development costs would need to be immediately written off in the Consolidated income statement.
v Pension fund cash escrow account The Company holds a pension fund cash escrow account as part of the security given for the UK dened benefit pension scheme.
This account is shown within current assets in the Consolidated balance sheet as it may be used to settle pension fund liabilities atanytime.
