Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 The Board undertakes an annual formal review of the C. Accountability effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and an Financial and business reporting updated risk andcontrols analysis for the Group.
The review The respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors in covers all material controls, including financial, operational and connection with the financial statements are explained in the compliance controls and riskmanagement systems.
Statement of directors responsibilities and the Independent auditors report.
The Board considers that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing Going concern the Group that has been in place during the year, which is The Groups business activities and business model, together regularly reviewed and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
with the factors likely to affect its future development, TheBoard confirms that necessary action has been or is being performance andposition are set out in the Business review, taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identied where also given are details of the financial and liquidity positions.
In addition, note 22 inthe financial statements includes the Groups objectives and policies for managing its capital, details of Audit committee and auditors its financial instruments andhedging activities and its exposures The Audit committee comprises the four non-executive directors.
to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The members and the chairman are shown on pages 12 and 13.
The Board is satisfied that at least two members of the The Group has considerable financial resources at its disposal committee have recent and relevant financial experience, being and the directors have considered the current financial Terry Garthwaite and David Snowden.
The terms of reference of projections.
Asaconsequence, the directors believe that the this committee were reviewed during the year and are available Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable The committee reviews the accounting policies and procedures expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate of the Group, its annual and interim financial statements before resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable submission to the Board and its compliance with statutory future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern requirements.
The committee monitors the integrity of the basis in preparing the Annual report and accounts.
Groups financial statements and announcements relating to financial performance and reviews the significant reporting Risk management and internal control judgements contained in them.
Italso reviews the scope, remit The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk and effectiveness of the internal control systems and internal management and internal control and for reviewing their auditfunction.
Anysystem of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve The committee has primary responsibility for making the business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not recommendation on the appointment, reappointment absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
andremoval of external auditors, which the Board puts to shareholders for approval at the AGM.
A new audit partner has There are dened lines of responsibility and delegation of been allocated responsibility for theCompanys audit this year, authorities.
There are also established and centrally documented which will be taken into account in relation to consideration control procedures, including, for example, capital and other ofthetiming of the tender for audit services in future.
expenditure, information and technology security, and legal and regulatory compliance.
These are applied throughout the Group.
It keeps under review the scope and results of the audit, its costeffectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the The group internal audit function provides independent and auditors.
The auditors provide a conrmation of independence on objective assurance that the procedures are appropriate and an annual basis.
The committee reviews the nature and extent of effectively applied.
The Group Audit Manager attends Audit thenon-audit services supplied by the auditors, receiving regular committee meetings to present annual internal audit plans and reports on the balance of audit to non-audit fees.
The committee the results of such internal audits.
Actions are monitored by the regards it most cost efficient to use the auditors for tax advice Audit committee on an ongoing basis.
and compliance since this requires an in-depth knowledge There is a process for the review of business risks throughout andunderstanding of the Companys business, products, theGroup.
These are reported on a monthly basis by senior customer base and markets.
These reports are The committee reviews the policy by which employees of the reviewed by the Board.
Company may, in confidence, raise matters of concern, including The Board ensures that there are effective internal controls over possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
the financial reporting and consolidation processes.
Monthly Italso monitors the effectiveness of the Companys procedures accounts and forecasts are presented to the Board for review.
toavoidany bribery by or received by employees and The group internal audit function undertakes a programme of representatives of the Group.
review of subsidiaries accounting processes and performance to provide assurance to the Board on the integrity of the information supplied byeach company which forms part of the consolidated results of the Group.
