Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Goodwill and other intangible assets Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred tothe Group.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Deferred consideration relating to acquisitions is subject to discounting to the date of acquisition and subsequently unwound to the date of the final payment.
Goodwill arising on acquisition represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identiable assets acquired, net of deferred tax.
Identiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
It is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment or earlier ifthere are anyindications of impairment.
The annual impairment review involves comparing the carrying amount to the estimated recoverable amount and recognising an impairment loss if the recoverable amount is lower.
Impairment losses are recognised through the Consolidated income statement.
Intangible assets such as customer lists, patents, trademarks, know-how and intellectual property that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets.
The estimated useful lives of the intangible assets included in the Consolidated balance sheet reect the benefit derived by the Group and vary from 5 to 10 years.
On a transaction by transaction basis, the Group elects to measure non-controlling interests, which have both present ownership interests and are entitled to a proportionate share of net assets of the acquiree in the event of liquidation, either at its fair value or atitsproportionate interest in the recognised amount of the identiable net assets of the acquiree at the acquisition date.
All other non-controlling interests are measured at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Intangible assets research and development costs Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the Consolidated income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Company intends and has the technical ability andsufcient resources to complete development, future economic benets are probable and the Company can measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.
Development activities involve a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products or processes.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Other development expenditure is recognised in the Consolidated income statement as an expense as incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and less accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets software licences Intangible assets comprising software licences, that are acquired by the Group, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
The useful life of each ofthese assets is assessed on an individual basis and they range from 2 to 10 years.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of assets less their estimated residual value on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Plant and equipment 3 to 10 years Vehicles 3 to 4 years Warranty provisions The Group provides a warranty from the date of purchase on all its products.
This is typically for a 12-month period, although up tothree years is given for a small number of products.
A warranty provision is included in the financial statements, which is calculated on the basis of historical returns and internal quality reports.
Employee benets The Group operates contributory pension schemes, largely for UK and Irish employees, which were of the dened benefit type up to 5th April 2007 and 31st December 2007 respectively, at which time they ceased any future accrual for existing members and were closed to new members.
The schemes are administered by trustees who are independent of the group nances.
Pension scheme assets of the dened benefit schemes are measured using market value.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return onahigh-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The expected return on the schemes assets and the interest on the schemes liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in financial income and financial expenses respectively.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses in full in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and expense.
The pension schemes surpluses, to the extent that they are considered recoverable, or deficits are recognised in full and presented on the face of the Consolidated balance sheet under Employee benets.
Where a guarantee is in place in relation to a pension scheme deficit, liabilities are reported in accordance with IFRIC 14.
