Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 27.
Accounting policies continued Warranty on the sale of products The Company provides a warranty from the date of purchase on all its products.
This is typically for a 12-month period, although up to three years is given for a small number of products.
A warranty provision is included in the accounts, which is calculated on the basis of historical returns and internal quality reports.
Derivative financial instruments In accordance with its treasury policy, the Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
The Company uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange risk arising from operational and nancing activities.
Forward exchange contracts are recognised initially at cost and then subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Where a forward contract is designated as a hedge of the variability in future cash inows, the effective part of any gain or loss on the forward contract is recognised directly in equity.
Anyeffective cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the profit and loss account at the same time as the hedged transaction.
Theineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised in the profit and loss account immediately.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and labour plus overheads applicable to the stage ofmanufacture reached.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on such translation are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Businessreview, where also given are details of the financial and liquidity positions.
In addition, note 22 in the financial statements includes the Groupsobjectives and policies for managing its capital, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk andliquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources at its disposal and the directors have considered the current financial projections.
Asaconsequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue inoperational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual report andaccounts.
