Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 1.
Accounting policies continued New, revised or changes to existing accounting standards There have been no new or amendments to accounting standards and interpretations, issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU orInternational Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, which are effective for the first time in the current financial year and which have had a significant impact on the Groups consolidated results or financial position.
Consolidation Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern thenancial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries areincluded in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant inuence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Theconsolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised income and expense of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant inuence commences until the date that significant inuence ceases.
Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the Consolidated income statement when the significant risks and rewards ofownership have been transferred to the buyer, which is the time of despatch.
Where certain products require installation, partoftherevenue may be deferred until the installation is complete.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due, or the possible return ofgoods.
Foreign currencies Foreign subsidiaries results are translated into Sterling at weighted average exchange rates for the year, which is effected by translating each foreign subsidiarys monthly results at exchange rates applicable to each of the respective months.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies atthe balance sheet date are translated into Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Differences on exchange resulting from the translation of overseas assets and liabilities are recognised directly in equity.
Gains and losses arising on currency borrowings used to hedge the foreign currency exposure on the net assets of the foreign operations, are accounted for directly in equity, to the extent that hedge accounting criteria are met and are included in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and expense.
See the note on derivative financial instruments below, for the accounting policies for forward exchange contracts and currencyborrowings.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Consolidated income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operation The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be aneffective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated income statement.
The effectiveness of the hedging is tested monthly.
Inventory and work in progress Inventory and work in progress is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In respect of work in progress and nished goods, cost includes all production overheads and the attributable proportion of indirect overhead expenses which are required to bring inventories to their present location and condition.
Overheads are absorbed into inventories on the basis of normal capacity.
Cash ow hedges Forward exchange contracts are recognised at fair value.
Where a forward contract is designated as a hedge of the variability in future cash inows, the effective part of any gain or loss on the forward contract is recognised directly in equity.
Any effective cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Consolidated income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction.
Theineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated income statement immediately.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss held in equity is recognised in theConsolidated income statement immediately.
The effectiveness of cash ow hedges is tested on a monthly basis by comparing thecash inows with the hedging amounts.
