82 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements Accounting Policies c Reacquired franchise rights Intangible assets Reacquired franchise rights acquired as part of a business Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation combination in City Link represents the benefit to the group from and accumulated impairment losses, where applicable.
The main the right to operate in certain geographical regions.
These are categories of intangible assets are as follows: initially measured at fair value and amortised on a straight-line Intangible assets indefinite useful lives basis over the remaining contractual period of the franchise agreements which terminated on 25 October 2010.
Goodwill d Computer software Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis the fair value of the groups share of the net identiable assets of of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specic the acquired subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
software and are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Goodwill in respect of business combinations made since 1January 1998 is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on the Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs acquisition of associates is included in investments in associates.
are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly Goodwill in respect of the acquisition of subsidiaries made prior associated with the production of identiable and unique software to 1 January 1998 remains eliminated against reserves.
products controlled by the group, and that will probably generate economic benets exceeding costs beyond one year, are Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include the software accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses previously development, employee costs and an appropriate portion of recognised are not reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to cashrelevant overheads.
generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of Computer software development costs recognised as assets goodwill relating to the entity sold.
are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Intangible assets nite useful lives e Research and development Intangible assets with nite useful lives are initially measured at Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred.
either cost or fair value and amortised on a straight-line basis over Costs incurred on development projects relating to the design their useful economic lives, which are reviewed on an annual basis.
and testing of new or improved products are recognised as The fair value attributable to intangible assets acquired through intangible assets when it is probable that the project will be a a business combination is determined by discounting the success considering its commercial and technological feasibility expected future cash ows to be generated from that asset at and only if the cost can be measured reliably.
Capitalised the risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital for the group.
development expenditure is measured at cost less accumulated The residual values of intangible assets are assumed to be nil.
amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The estimated useful economic lives of intangible assets are Other development expenditure is recognised as an expense as follows: as incurred.
Customer lists and relationships: 5 to 16 years Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not Brands and patents: 2 to 15 years recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Development Reacquired franchise rights: 3 to 5 years costs that have been capitalised are amortised from the date the Computer software: 3 to 5 years product is available for use on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected benefit.
The following are the main categories of intangible assets: a Customer lists and relationships Inventories Customer lists and portfolios acquired as part of a business Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
combination are initially measured at fair value and amortised Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives.
Separate The cost of nished goods and work in progress comprises design values are not attributed to internally generated customer lists costs, raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related or relationships.
productionoverheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated b Brands and patents selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable Brands and patents acquired as part of a business combination variable selling expenses.
are initially measured at fair value and amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives.
Expenditure incurred to Trade receivables develop, maintain and renew brands and patents internally is Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and recognised as an expense in the period incurred.
Separate values subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective are not attributed to internally generated brands and patents.
interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
