2 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Experts in The Essentials Our Operating Model Our operating model has evolved to support the implementation of our strategic thrusts across our global business.
Key aspects of our operating model Service Capability Growth To focus primarily on local and To build a strong and consistent To expand our business though national customers through front functional and category operating world-class expertise in acquiring line colleagues who are committed model that enables us to leverage and integrating businesses.
to delivering outstanding customer our local density, global scale service, which requires strong and expertise.
This functional country operating management and category capability will be with capability in service, account built around a global and regional management and new business organisation framework so that this generation, all within a consistent capability can be rapidly deployed operating framework.
Experts in The Essentials Differentiators Best People Best Innovation & Best Service, Customer Care Transparency in our industries Technical Expertise & Account Management Internally & Externally Core International Businesses Other Single Country Businesses For these businesses we have evolved an integrated Our facilities services and parcels businesses are country-based model supported by global and single country operations with the exception of regional teams providing: a facilities services operation in Spain and are General management accountability managed as stand-alone elements of our portfolio for operational and financial performance Category focus for the pest, hygiene, workwear and plants activities, including expertise in marketing & innovation, sales and increasingly in operations Global specialist functions, in finance, human resources and IT Core Values Service, Relationships & Teamwork Pest Control We aspire to operate Hygiene Facilities Services in every significant We aspire to follow We aspire to be a temperate to tropical our pest control multi-service on-site conurbation in the world business into every provider in the UK where the political and market except Total Facilities economic prospects North America.
Management market are stable to positive.
offering a range of We will use pest control services to our clients as our entry point for Parcel Delivery including catering, new geographies.
We aim to be the UKs security, cleaning, Plants leading premium buildings M&E and We will focus on the parcel delivery technical services.
11 countries where we provider offering a already have a market range of products to Workwear leading position.
our customers We aspire to build a market including Next Day leading position in and Same Day Continental Europe.
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Contents 3 Business Review Business Review Business Performance ifc Our Operating Model 2 Experts in The Essentials 4 Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive 10 Transforming the Business 2008 to 2011 12 Achieving our Objectives in 2012 14 Strategic Plan for 2013 16 Key Performance Indicators 18 Business Overview & Review 19 Divisional Highlights 20 Financial Review 25 Risks and Uncertainties 27 Company Executive Board 31 Corporate Responsibility 32 Governance Governance Report 38 Chairmans Introduction 38 Board of Directors 40 Report of the Board 42 Audit Committee Report 50 Nominations Committee Report 54 Directors Report Other Statutory Disclosures 56 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 59 Directors Remuneration Report 60 Financial Statements Consolidated Income Statement 74 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 75 Consolidated Balance Sheet 76 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 77 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 79 Accounting Policies 80 Notes to the Accounts 88 Principal Operating Subsidiary and Associated Undertakings 121 Five-Year Summary 122 Parent Company Balance Sheet 123 Notes to the Parent Company Accounts 124 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Rentokil Initial plc 130 Shareholder Information 131 4 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Experts in The Essentials Experts in Pest Control Were committed to providing a high quality and reliable service that responds to customers needs and requirements.
Tom Turner Job Team Technician, Rentokil Pest Control Business Description Product & Service Rentokil Pest Control is the worlds leading commercial pest control Innovation company operating in over 50 countries including recent entries in Bed bugs early detection using Turkey, Mexico, Brazil, Dubai and Abu Dhabi.
It has leading market natural science positions in the UK, Continental Europe, Asia and South Africa and PestConnect remote monitoring system for a rapidly expanding presence in the Americas.
mice that links into our online reporting tools Heatpod continued roll out of mobile heat treatment for insects Rodents development of new delivery Market Trends & Opportunities mechanisms for rapid-acting rodenticides Worldwide pest control The global pest control market is Wood boring insects new technology for revenue bn estimated to be worth approximately  control 9bn, of which we have around 7%.
We see further opportunities to increase our share in this growing market through a combination of 65 25 % % organic and acquisitive actions.
10 % Rising standards of hygiene are driving greater demand for pest Rodents Insects Other control services in emerging and Proportion of pest revenue by type mature economies.
The sector is Key consolidating, presenting good 4.4 North America opportunities to grow through 1.8 Europe 1.6 APAC acquisition.
Over recent years we 0.6 Latin America have broadened our geographic Growth Initiatives 0.2 MENAT presence through acquisitions in 0.2 RoW Deploy Where to play, How to win North, Central and South America Global pest control is worth almost methodology across the business 9bn, of which we have around 7% and the Middle East.
We believe Develop Information as a Service our differential capability versus Roll-out Advantage sales capability tablet our competitors is brand strength, for front-line sales colleagues to support global reach, service, products, account management and new business innovation and expertise.
In addition, investment in information Develop remote monitoring capability technology is enabling us to serve Gain market share through new our customers better, faster and branch openings Cloud-based technology is more effectively.
enabling us to serve our customers Continue acquisition programme in the more effectively and efficiently Americas & Middle East Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Experts in The Essentials 5 Experts in Hygiene Our tailor-made service ensures all our customers comply with hygiene and environmental regulations.
Paul Abbott Technician, Rentokil Specialist Hygiene Growth Initiatives Business Description Deploy Where to play, How to win For more than 100 years Initial Hygiene has helped organisations methodology across the business provide pleasant and hygienic environments for staff, clients and visitors.
Good hygiene is vital to the performance of organisations Launch of new Reection range in June and applies to all areas of premises, from washrooms and kitchen 2012 and Signature range in 2013 areas, to work spaces and storage areas.
We provide high quality Roll out new hygiene working practice hygiene products and services that minimise risk of exposure to On Site Service for feminine hygiene units bacteria and other infectious micro-organisms.
We offer customers Focus on key accounts a range of services from convenient delivery of hygiene supplies to a complete rental maintenance service.
These services are mostly provided in the washroom but also in other parts of buildings, for example oor mats and scenting.
Market Trends & Opportunities Initial operates in a competitive market with good growth opportunities.
We are well placed to increase market share through market segmentation and the introduction of value propositions to customers.
significant investment has been made in updating and A marketing & innovation team has been established to drive delivering best-in-class product solutions.
world-class innovation across the group Up to 50% Reduced absences 81% of people do not revisit a premises By introducing the regular use of gel and because of a dirty washroom foam hand sanitizers, absenteeism through Contemporary design for the new Signature range to be sickness can be reduced by 30%-50% launched in 2013 6 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Experts in The Essentials Experts in Workwear Were committed to providing a high quality laundry service thats consistent and flexible for all our customers, big and small.
Erwin Geentjens Plant Manager, Initial Lokeren Business Description Growth Initiatives Our workwear business specialises in the supply and launder of workwear, Deploy Where to play, How such as uniforms and personal protective equipment, throughout Europe.
to win methodology across the business Launch European ranges in the industrial, driving & PPE sectors across all our Market Trends & Opportunities businesses The European workwear market is estimated to be worth approximately 6bn of which we have an estimated 7% and growing ahead of GDP at 3%.
There is an increasing trend by customers to outsource their workwear requirements, which is fuelling further growth opportunities.
Customers are seeking better designed, higher quality garments and greater transparency on costs and performance.
Initial is well positioned to capitalise on these trends through service differentiation and investment in plant and equipment.
Our acquisition of the workwear design business CAWE in 2011 will enable Initial to take control over its supply chain, manage requirements for client customisation in both Taking control of our European Workwear design and quality and reduce costs.
Investment in efficiency improvements is range has enabled us to control stock and being made in the Netherlands and France and we are expanding our capacity reduce SKUs in the cleanroom market across Europe.
There is a significant emphasis on sustainability in this market.
Roll out new Initial brand to build customer awareness and increase employee pride Focus on service excellence and customer care Acquire businesses to broaden geographic reach in Continental Europe and to target high growth sectors Since 2008 Since 2008 water consumption emissions Productivity fallen reduced by up from 35 to 13% 27% 85 kwh energy per kg litres per kg of pieces per of laundry processed product processed man hour Initial Germany has been rated within the Top 40 most customer oriented service Investment in efficiency has improved our profit margins across Europe companies in 2011 and 2012 Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Experts in The Essentials 7 Experts in Plants Were always on hand to respond rapidly to resolve any customers queries, problems or emergencies.
Belinda Jenkinson Technician and Christmas specialist, Ambius Business Description Growth Initiatives Ambius installs and services both interior and exterior plant displays, owers, Deploy Where to play, How replica foliage, Christmas decorations and ambient scenting for commercial to win methodology across businesses including hotels, ofces and shopping centres.
Ambius is North the business Americas largest ofce interior plants business and also operates in Europe, Focus on our existing 11 core Australia, Canada and South Africa.
Ambius countries and on specic industry sectors within these countries Market Trends & Opportunities Interior landscaping has become Share of worldwide increasingly popular during the last plants market % 30 years.
Most architects now include plants in their design specication for new shopping centres, ofce complexes and other public areas.
Growth initiatives will be concentrated Research has shown that people within our 11 core countries respond positively to the presence of plants in buildings, which enhance the Invest in high-growth premium character and appearance of a building scenting category and improve the psychological and Leverage full range of group Ke Key y physical well-being of its occupants.
operational excellence 48% North America In addition, interior landscaping has initiatives across Ambius 26% Other been shown to reduce sickness 11% Netherlands markets, following the merger 9% Australia absence, improve mental agility, of Ambius with pest control 6% Sweden increase use of communal facilities and hygiene businesses and positively alter an individuals Growth in interior perception of a building.
plant market m 141 138 116 2011 2012 2013e Ambius had a record breaking Christmas in 2012, generating $13m in revenue from Interior planting is predicted to show further seasonal products growth in the coming years 8 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Experts in The Essentials Experts in Facilities Services We build partnerships with our customers to become their partner of choice, at home and abroad.
Debra Roberts Chef, Initial Facilities Business Description Growth Initial Facilities provides a fully integrated Initiatives Total Facilities Management TFM to Focus on multi-service government and commercial sector TFM organisations of all sizes across all Build capability through business sectors.
We have comprehensive technical services service capabilities in catering, cleaning, acquisitions and improve security, buildings M&E and statutory technology platforms compliance.
We have long-term partnering relationships and are the service partner Our London Underground contract is worth of choice for our customers.
c. 250m over five years Recent acquisitions have increased our market presence Market Trends & Opportunities UK Facilities Initial Facilities operates in a large market with good Improve operational Management % growth potential.
While margins tend to be low, efficiency by business returns on capital are high.
The market is moving restructure and investment increasingly towards multi-service TFM.
Initial Invest in innovation service Facilities has restructured its business away from line and technology the single service cleaning sector and built capability Grow through sector to provide full service TFM organically and through focus health, transport, acquisition.
Growth will be achieved through sector professional services, local focus, with innovation a key to success.
government Implement LEAN initiative Key 8% to 12% saved on 42.2% In-house services customer contracts 25.1% Single services 18.8% Multi services 13.9% TFM From catering, cleaning, security and building maintenance to other added-value services such as space management, energy and waste, our TFM solutions enable our customers to focus on what matters most: their core business.
Despite a high proportion Security Other Cleaning Technical Catering of facilities services managed Initial Facilities transition from single service cleaning to TFM in-house, the market is moving increasingly towards multi-service provision is moving rapidly and TFM Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Experts in The Essentials 9 Experts in Parcel Delivery We promise to handle our customers parcels securely, safely and on time Every Time.
Garry Williams Driver, City Link Business Description Service City Link is a UK express parcels company aiming to provide high quality and Differentiation exible services across the UK and Ireland through its distinctive caged delivery Caged delivery system network.
From next-day delivery to fast worldwide services, it delivers documents, affords security, reduces parcels, pallets and freight from a network of over 60 local depots, five regional damage, efficiencies in hubs and a central hub and over 2,500 delivery vehicles.
loading times Market Trends & Opportunities The UK parcels market is worth an City Link Revenue mix m estimated 12bn and set to grow by 7% by 2016.
Growth estimates for the Business to Consumer B2C Unlike competitors, City Link transports market range from 10% to 25%.
parcels in cages from the collection The Business to Business B2B depot to delivery depot, ensuring goods Key segment is expected to grow in line arrive safely and on time 283.1 Next Day with GDP.
Growth in B2C is driven 19.3 Post 7.7 Retail by online retailing, up 70% since 6.0 International 2008, with consumers attracted 5.6 Same Day by convenience, choice and low prices.
The Click and Collect online Next day deliveries continue to dominate the revenue opportunities of City Link delivery to store segment is growing in excess of overall growth in online Fullment method for online retailing.
Consumer confidence shopping purchases in the UK City Link can provide a range of stand in direct channels is increasing, volumes of items sent alone or networked solutions that have leading to higher value, bigger and been congured to manage the shipping 2015e process bulkier goods being carried.
City Links unique caged delivery model l 150m to New scanning technology 200m ideally positions it to capitalise on provides accuracy of these growing trends.
Operational 2008 product delivery specialism and market segmentation on 50m 450m to GPS technology enables 550m are the keys to profitability with Key provision of Estimated 300m to successful players making 5% to 350m To store Time of Arrivals to 10% EBIT returns.
The market is 200m to To customer customers 98% 250m 75m highly competitive with historic Digitally fullled compliance by 2014 pressure on pricing.
Market growth in B2C is being driven by growth in online retailing, up 70% since 2008
