56 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors Report other Statutory Disclosures Directors Report other Statutory Disclosures The directors submit their report and audited financial statements Accountability and audit of the Company and the group to the members of Rentokil Initial The board is required by the Code to present a balanced and plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012. understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
In relation to this requirement, reference is made to This directors report contains certain statutory, regulatory and the statement of directors responsibilities for preparing the other information and incorporates by reference the Chairmans financial statements set out on page 59. and Chief Executives Statement and updates on the Operating Model, Transforming the Business, Achieving Key Objectives, The independent auditors report on page 130 includes a Strategy, Key Performance Indicators, Business Review, Risks statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
& Uncertainties, Operational Performance, Financial Review The board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced and the Governance Report set out on pages 2 to 73. and understandable assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports, reports to regulators and information Business review required to be presented by law.
A review of the development of the groups businesses during The changes to the Code published in September 2012 and the year and its future prospects is included in the chairmans coming into effect for the Companys annual report in 2013 require and chief executives statement, and updates on: business that the board should formally confirm that its financial statements transformation, key objectives, strategy, key performance present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the indicators, operational performance and Operating Model, Companys position and prospects.
nancing, risks and uncertainties and the Governance Report set out on pages 2 to 37, which should be read in conjunction with Code Principle: C. 1 The board should present a balanced and understandable assessment this report of which they form a part.
The information in these of the Companys position and prospects.
sections, along with this directors report, comprises the Business Review as required by section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 Auditors independence and objectivity and are incorporated into this directors report by reference.
In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Operating model Company and to authorise the directors to determine their The core operating model has evolved over the last three years, remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming annual culminating at the end of 2012 with added focus on the core general meeting.
service of pest and hygiene services globally and workwear in In concluding that KPMG Audit Plc should be reappointed as Europe.
Further information on the operating model can be found auditors at the 2013 annual general meeting, the board and the on page 2. audit committee took into account the need to ensure that auditor independence was safeguarded.
The committee also took into Principal activities account the review undertaken of the effectiveness of the audit Rentokil Initial plc is the holding Company of a group which, process as well as input from executive management.
through its operating businesses in some 60 countries, provides a range of principally business to business support services.
The Company considers that there are sufficient controls A description of the groups principal activities is given on pages 2 and processes in place to ensure that the required level of to 24 and the principal subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures independence is maintained.
The Company has a formal policy of the Company are shown on page 121. on the provision of non-audit services provided by the Companys auditors.
The amount of non-audit fees earned by the auditor is 2013 Annual general meeting routinely reported to the audit committee.
The board does not The annual general meeting of the Company will be held in the consider that there is any material risk of the Companys auditor Desoutter suite at the Sotel London Gatwick, North Terminal, withdrawing from the market.
Gatwick Airport, Crawley, West Sussex, RH6 0PH on 15 May 2013 Further information on auditor independence is provided in the at 12 noon.
Aseparate letter to shareholders containing the notice report of the audit committee and the Companys policy on of the annual general meeting and explanatory information on the provision of non-audit services by the auditor is available the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting accompanies this at www.
Both documents can be found on the Companys website at www.
com Corporate governance report The governance report for the year ended 31 December 2012, Results and dividends prepared in accordance with rule 7.2 of the FSAs Disclosure The adjusted operating profit before amortisation and impairment and Transparency rules is set out on pages 38 to 73 and forms of intangibles, excluding computer software, reorganisation costs part of the directors report.
and one-off items for the financial year ended 31 December 2012 was 222.8 million 2011: 224.7 million.
The directors recommend payment of a final dividend in respect of the year to 31 December 2012 of 1.43p per ordinary share, which subject to approval at the annual general meeting on 15 May 2013, will be paid on 21 May 2013 to shareholders on the register on 19 April 2013.
When taken with the interim dividend of 0.67p per share paid on 26 October 2012 2011: nil this gives a total dividend of 2.1p per share 2011:1.33p.
