Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements Accounting Policies 87 The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade e Provision for vacant property and environmental receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair restoration values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash ows at provision for vacant property and environmental restoration.
the current market interest rate that is available to the group for Vacant property and environmental restoration tend to be similar financial instruments.
long-term in nature and the required use of an appropriate market discount rate and forecast future utilisation based upon managements best estimate determines the level of provision Critical accounting estimates and assumptions required at the balance sheet date.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including The phasing and actual cash spend may be different from the expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable original forecast utilisation spend.
f Retirement benets The group makes estimates and assumptions concerning Dened benefit schemes are reappraised annually by independent the future.
actuaries based upon actuarial assumptions.
significant judgement is required in determining these actuarial assumptions.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by denition, seldom Refer to Note 26 for the principal assumptions used for the equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions Rentokil Initial Pension Scheme in the UK.
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Sensitivities to the estimates Standards, amendments and interpretations to and assumptions are provided, where relevant, in the relevant published standards that are not yet effective notes to the accounts.
There were no new standards and amendments to standards as adopted by the European Union at 31 December 2012 that are a Estimated impairment of goodwill mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning The group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any 1January 2012 which were relevant to the group.
impairment in accordance with the accounting policy stated earlier under intangible assets goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of The following new standards and amendments to standards which cash-generating units have been determined based on value-inhave been endorsed by the European Union are applicable to the use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates group for the financial year beginning 1 January 2013 and are and assumptions consistent with the most up-to-date budgets considered to have a material impact on the consolidated results and plans that have been formally approved by management.
and financial position of the group.
b Valuation of acquired intangible assets Dened benefit Plans Amendment to IAS 19.
The impact of this Acquisitions may result in customer relationships, brands, patents is disclosed in Note 26. and reacquired franchise rights being recognised.
These are The following new standards and amendments to standards which valued using the excess earnings and relief from royalty methods.
have been endorsed by the European Union are applicable to the In applying these methodologies certain key judgements and group for the financial year beginning 1 January 2013.
The group estimates are required to be made in respect of future cash ows.
does not believe the adoption of the below standards and c Provision for impairment of trade receivables amendments to standards will have a material impact on the Provision is made against accounts that in the estimation of consolidated results or the financial position of the group.
Within each of the businesses, Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income assessment is made locally of the recoverability of accounts Amendments to IAS 1 receivable and the creditworthiness of the customer.
Determining IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement the recoverability of an account involves estimation as to the likely financial condition of the customer and their ability to Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities subsequently make payment.
Amendments to IFRS 7 d Income taxes The following new standards and amendments to standards have The group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
been endorsed by the European Union and are applicable to the significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide group for the financial year beginning 1 January 2014: provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements during the ordinary course of business.
The group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
