Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements Accounting Policies 81 Reorganisation costs relate directly to the groups major All other property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost reorganisation programme and consists mainly of redundancy less depreciation.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is costs, consultancy and plant and ofce closure costs net of the directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation on profit on sale of certain properties.
One-off items in the current other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate year include acquisition costs, impairments on classication as the difference between their cost and their residual values over held for sale, redundancy costs, consultancy and plant and their estimated useful lives, as follows: ofce closure costs.
Vehicles: 4 to 5 years Plant and equipment including equipment for rental : 3 to 10 years Foreign currency translation Ofce equipment, furniture and ttings: 3 to 10 years a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups Assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic amended as necessary.
Fixed assets are reviewed for impairment environment in which the entity operates the functional whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented carrying amount of the xed asset may not be recoverable.
in sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its currency.
recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount exceeds the b Transactions and balances higher of the assets fair value less cost to sell or value-in-use.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional For the purposes of assessing value-in-use, assets are grouped currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the at the lowest levels for which there are separately identiable cash transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from ows cash-generating units and cash ow forecasts are made the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at using assumptions consistent with the most up-to-date budgets reporting period end exchange rates of monetary assets and and plans that have been formally approved by management.
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the These cash ows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate income statement except when deferred in equity as qualifying based on the weighted average cost of capital for the group, net investment hedges.
Other foreign exchange differences are adjusted for the particular risks of the cash-generating unit being taken to the income statement.
c Group companies The results and financial position of all the group entities that have Business combinations a functional currency different from the presentation currency are Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations translated into the presentation currency as follows: are accounted for using the purchase method acquisition accounting.
The cost of a business combination is the aggregate i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the ii income and expenses for each income statement are acquirer.
The cost of a business combination is allocated at the translated at average exchange rates: and acquisition date by recognising the acquirees identiable assets, iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition a separate component of equity.
criteria, at their fair values at that date.
The acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the acquiree.
An intangible asset, such as customer relationships, translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of brands, patents and royalties, is recognised if it meets the borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges denition of an intangible asset in IAS 38, Intangible Assets.
of such investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
When a The intangible assets identied in all acquisitions made since foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are 1 January 1998 are goodwill, customer lists and relationships, recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss reacquired franchise rights and contract portfolios.
in excess of net identiable assets acquired in respect of nonGoodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition controlling interests in existing subsidiary undertakings is taken of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign directly to reserves.
Costs directly attributable to business entity and translated at period end exchange rates.
combinations made after 1 January 2010 are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Costs directly attributable to business combinations prior to this date were included as part Property, plant and equipment of the purchase price of the business combination.
Contingent Land and buildings comprise mainly factories and ofces.
consideration is accounted for at fair value at the acquisition date Provision for depreciation of freehold buildings is made in equal with subsequent changes to the fair value being recognised in annual instalments of 1% to 2% of cost.
Leasehold buildings the consolidated income statement.
classied as finance leases are depreciated in equal annual instalments over the shorter of the lease term or estimated useful life of the leased asset.
No depreciation is charged on freehold land or xed assets under construction.
When properties are sold, the difference between sale proceeds and net book value is dealt with in the income statement.
