80 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Accounting Policies b Associates Basis of preparation Associates are all entities over which the group has significant These consolidated financial statements have been prepared inuence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding in compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European and are initiallyrecognised at cost.
The groups investment in Union as at 31 December 2012. associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under loss identied on acquisition.
the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of The groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or available-for-sale investments and certain financial assets and losses is recognised in the income statement and its share of liabilities including derivative instruments.
post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income After reviewing group and Company cash balances, borrowing is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The cumulative facilities and projected cash ows, the directors believe that the post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying group and Company have adequate resources to continue amount of the investment.
operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue Gains and losses on transactions between the group and its to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated associates are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest financial statements see the Report of the Board on page 43. in the associates.
Consolidation Segment reporting a Subsidiaries Reporting segments reect the internal management organisation Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities and reporting structures.
Each segment is headed by a divisional over which the group has the power to govern the financial and managing director who reports directly to the Chief Executive and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of is a member of the company executive board responsible for the more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect review of group performance.
Operating businesses within each of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or segment report to segment divisional managing directors.
convertible are considered when assessing whether the group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from Segmental revenue represents the total revenue of each individual the date on which control is transferred to the group.
They are business unit within a reporting segment and includes inter fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Segmental profit is the profit measure used to measure performance internally and is calculated as profit before The group uses the purchase method of accounting to account tax, interest, amortisation and impairment of intangibles excluding for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is computer software and items of a one-off nature adjusted measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments operating profit.
issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities Segmental revenues and profits are shown at constant exchange assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their rates consistent with our internal reporting and review process.
fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any Other segmental information is stated at actual exchange rates.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over Constant exchange rate refers to the translation of two different the fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets periods using the same exchange rate for a particular currency acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is the prior years average rate of exchange.
Both the current and less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, prior years currencies are translated at the prior years rate of the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
This gives a clearer indication of the actual performance of the business when measured against Inter-company transactions, balances and gains and losses the previous year by separately identifying the impact of foreign on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
exchange by providing information on both an actual and constant On the loss of control, the group derecognises the assets and exchange rate basis.
When using actual exchange rates, liabilities of the subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the currencies are translated using the rate of exchange for that year.
other components of equity related to the subsidiary.
Any surplus or deficit arising on the loss of control is recognised in profit or Reorganisation costs and one-off items loss.
If the group retains any interest in the previous subsidiary, Reorganisation costs and one-off items have been separately then such interest is measured at fair value at the date that identied as they are not considered to be business as usual control is lost.
expenses and have a varying impact on different businesses and reporting periods.
These are separately identied and presented Any change in the parents controlling interest in a subsidiary to give a clearer understanding of the performance of the that does not result in a loss of control in buying or selling shares business.
It also shows the information in the same way as it to the non-controlling interest is treated as a transaction with is presented and reviewed by management.
equity shareholders and is shown as a movement in the consolidated statement of changes inequity.
