Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements Accounting Policies 83 Cash and cash equivalents Employee benefits Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held a Dened benefit pension plans at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout with original maturities of three months or less and subject to the world.
The principal scheme is the UK scheme, which has a insignicant changes in value.
In the cash ow statement, cash number of dened benefit sections, which are now closed to new and cash equivalents are shown net of bank overdrafts.
Bank entrants other than the Initial No 2 section, accounting for 0.5% overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on of the total schemes liabilities, which remains open and a dened the balance sheet.
The dened benefit scheme is funded through payments to Share capital a trustee-administered fund, determined by periodic actuarial Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
A number of much smaller dened benefit and dened contribution schemes operate elsewhere which are also funded Where any group company purchases the Companys equity through payments to trustee-administered funds or insurance share capital Treasury shares, the consideration paid, including companies.
A dened benefit plan is a pension plan that defines any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
age, years of service and compensation.
A dened contribution Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any plan is apension plan under which the group pays xed consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental contributions into aseparate entity.
transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of dened benefit pension plans is the present value of the dened benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of Borrowings plan assets.
The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised The present value of the dened benefit obligation is determined cost: any difference between the fair value net of transaction by discounting the estimated future cash outows using interest costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective currency in which the benets will be paid, and that have terms to interest method.
maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Borrowings are classied as current liabilities unless the group The group will recognise a pension surplus as an asset where hasa continuing right to defer settlement of the liability for at least there is an unconditional right to a refund or where the group has 12 months after the balance sheet date.
aright to reduce future pension contributions.
Current and past service costs, to the extent they have vested, Deferred income tax and curtailments are recognised as charges or credits against Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, operating profit in the income statement.
Interest costs on plan on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets liabilities and the expected return on plan assets are recognised in and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience financial statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other credited to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither the accounting nor the taxable profit or loss, it is not b Dened contribution pension plans accounted for.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates The group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related basis.
The group has no further payment obligations once the deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised liability is settled.
as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
