84 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements Accounting Policies c Other post-employment obligations Provisions Some group companies provide post-employment healthcare Vacant property, environmental, self-insurance and other benets to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benets is provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
probable that an outow of resources will be required to settle The expected costs of these benets are accrued over the period the obligation: and if this amount is capable of being reliably of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that estimated.
If such an obligation isnot capable of being reliably used for dened benefit pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses estimated it is classied as a contingent liability.
arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial Vacant property provision is made in respect of vacant and partly assumptions, are charged or credited to the consolidated sub-let leasehold properties to the extent that future rental statement of comprehensive income.
payments are expected to exceed future rental income.
d Share-based compensation Environmental provision is made for all known liabilities to The group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based remediate contaminated land on the basis of managements best compensation plans.
The economic cost of awarding shares estimate of the costs of these liabilities.
Self-insurance provision and share options to employees is recognised as an expense in is made for all claims incurred as at the balance sheet date the income statement equivalent to the fair value of the benefit whether notied or not based on actuarial assessments of the awarded.
The fair value is determined by reference to option likely amounts of these liabilities.
A provision for restructuring is pricing models, principally Monte Carlo and adjusted Blackrecognised when the group has approved a detailed and formal Scholes models.
The charge is recognised in the income restructuring plan, and the restructuring either has commenced statement over the vesting period of the award.
At each balance or has been announced publically.
Other provisions are made sheet date, the group revises its estimate of the number of options for all other known liabilities that exist at the year end based that are expected to become exercisable.
Any revision to the on managements best estimate as to the cost of settling these original estimates is reected in the income statement with a liabilities.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating corresponding adjustment to equity immediately to the extent losses.
it relates to past service and the remainder over the rest of the Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood vesting period.
that an outow will be required in settlement is determined by The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction considering the class of obligations as a whole.
costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share When the effect of the time value of money is material, provision premium when the options are exercised.
amounts are calculated on the present value of the expenditures e Termination benets expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The present value Termination benets are payable when an employment is is calculated using forward market interest rates, as measured at terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an the balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted for employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these risks already reected in future cash ow estimates.
The group recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably committed to either: terminating the employment Revenue recognition of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received from possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination benets as a the customer for the rendering of services, net of value-added tax result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
VAT and other similar sales-based taxes, rebates and discounts Benets falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet and after eliminating sales within the group.
Revenue is recognised date are discounted to present value.
as follows: f profit-sharing and bonus plans a Service revenue The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and Revenue excludes VAT and other similar sales-based taxes, profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration rebates and discounts and represents the fair value of the probability of certain performance criteria being achieved.
consideration receivable from the customer for services A provision is recognised where a contractual obligation exists rendered outside the group.
or where past practice indicates that there is a constructive For non-contract-based business, revenue represents the value obligation to make such payments in the future.
of goods delivered or services performed.
For contract-based g Holiday pay business, revenue represents the sales value of work carried out Paid holidays are regarded as an employee benefit and as such for customers during the period.
Contract income is recognised are charged to the income statement as the benets are earned.
in accounting periods on a straight-line basis over the life of the An accrual is made at the balance sheet date to reect the fair contract.
For long-term contracts involving the installation of value of holidays earned but not yet taken.
equipment, revenue is recognised using the percentage completion method and represents the sales value of work executed during the period.
