Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors Report other Statutory Disclosures 59 The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Other information records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Information relevant to the directors report can be found Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at elsewhere in this annual report on the following pages: any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Statutory information Location in this annual report Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking Corporate Responsiblity Pages 32 to 36 such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets Board of directors and committee of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Pages 39 to 41 membership Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also Appointment of directors Page 43 responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Accountability and Audit Page 56 Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that Operating Model Page 2 complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are Directors interests in shares Page 72 responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate Directors conicts of interest Page 47 and financial information included on the Companys website.
Key performance indicators Page 18 Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination Risks & Uncertainties Pages 27 to 30 of financial statements may differ from legislation in other Sustainable development Page 35 jurisdictions.
Page 120 and Note 37 Post balance sheet events Financial Statements Each of the directors, whose name and functions are set out on Pension schemes Note 26 Financial Statements pages 40 to 41, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Acquisitions Note 32 Financial Statements a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Share capital Note 27 Financial Statements applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Statement of directors responsibilities issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken in respect of the annual report and the financial statements as a whole: and The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report b the directors report includes a fair review of the development and the group and Parent Company financial statements in and performance of the business and the position of the issuer accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as requires the directors to prepare group and Parent Company a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they uncertainties that they face.
are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable Statement of the directors as to the law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial disclosure of information to the auditor statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and The directors confirm that, insofar as each of them is aware, there applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
is no relevant audit information as defined by section 418 2 Under company law the directors must not approve the financial of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair unaware: and each director has taken all of the steps that should have been taken to ensure that they are each aware of any relevant view of the state of affairs of the group and Parent Company and audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group auditors are aware of that information.
and Parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them The directors report was approved by a duly authorised committee of the board of directors on 14 March 2013 and signed consistently on its behalf by Paul Grifths, the company secretary.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent By order of the board, Paul Grifths for the group financial statements, state whether they have been Company Secretary prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU 14 March 2013 for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, Registered ofce: subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 2 City Place the Parent Company financial statements: and Beehive Ring Road Gatwick Airport prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis West Sussex RH6 0HA unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the Registered in England and Wales No.
5393279 Parent Company will continue in business Cautionary Statement This report contains statements that are, or may be, forward-looking regarding the groups financial position and results, business strategy, plans and objectives.
Such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances and there are accordingly a number of factors which might cause actual results and performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and no representation or warranty, whether expressed or implied, is given in relation to them, including as to their completeness or accuracy or the basis on which they were prepared.
Other than in accordance with the Companys legal or regulatory obligations including under the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Information contained in this announcement relating to the Company or its share price, or the yield on its shares, should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance.
Nothing in this announcement should be construed as a profit forecast.
60 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report The committee is comfortable that the existing structure and opportunity of remuneration arrangements remains sufficient to Membership incentivise and reward management and that no change is necessary this year.
However, in the spring the committee will be Alan Giles Chairman conducting a review of the performance share plan which has been essentially unchanged since 2009 to ensure that it continues Richard Burrows to be aligned with strategy and to motivate management to achieve our business goals.
Peter Long The committee is very conscious that in carrying out its duties Angela Seymour-Jackson from appointment in March 2012 we must take into account the wider pay environment in the Company.
The committees terms of reference were specically widened last year to make this responsibility clear.
Other attendees The Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial officer Shareholders will be aware that there has been much debate when required, the group HR director, the company secretary and around the reporting of executive remuneration, in particular the the committees independent advisers, Deloitte LLP.
The group draft regulations issued by the Department for Business Innovation reward director also periodically attended meetings.
No individual and Skills of new reporting requirements which are due to apply is present during any discussion relating to their own remuneration.
to Rentokil Initial for the 2013 financial year.
The committee has discussed the proposed new reporting requirements and in anticipation we have provided some additional disclosures Chairmans introduction in advance of being required to do so.
I am pleased to introduce the directors report on remuneration The 2009 performance share plan awards were tested in 2012 for2012.
and these did not meet their performance targets and have lapsed.
Put simply, the job of the committee is to ensure that the Bonus payments of between 16% and 34% were made to remuneration of directors and senior executives supports the executive directors under the annual bonus plan as reported delivery of strategic objectives and has the following features: on page 67.
It is set at an appropriate level in the context of the markets I hope that you nd the report clear and informative.
in which we operate to attract and retain the talent needed to run the business without paying more than necessary It links a significant proportion of the total remuneration Alan Giles opportunity to demanding performance targets that are aligned Chairman, Remuneration Committee to business strategy and shareholders interests 14 March 2013 It should reinforce a culture of high performance and at the same time underpins retention to support stability in the management team I was pleased that the nominations committee recommended that Angela Seymour-Jackson should join the committee when she was appointed to the board last March.
Her participation not only supports the independence of the committee but also brings very recent service industry experience.
I am keen to ensure that the committee maintains strong dialogue with our shareholders and during the year I was pleased to have had the opportunity to meet with several of our larger shareholders to listen to their views on pay and incentives and to discuss how the committee is approaching these important issues.
The Company will continue to consult with shareholders about remuneration generally and as necessary regarding the operation of our incentive plans.
There have been no changes to the executive management team during the year.
The structure of remuneration remains broadly unchanged with the exception of minor changes to the annual bonus which are detailed later in this report.
The special incentive plan put in place when the new leadership team joined in 2008 reaches its final performance test in a few months time.
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 61 is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully Introduction recognised This directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 be aware of and advise on any major changes in employee December 2012 has been prepared on behalf of the board by benefit structures throughout the Company or group the remuneration committee the Committee.
It has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of The Large and No member of the committee has any personal financial interest, Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports other than as a shareholder, in the matters to be decided by the Regulations 2008 the Regulations and in compliance with the committee.
No member of the committee, all of whom are provisions of the UK corporate governance regime applicable to independent, has any conict of interest arising from other these accounts the Code.
The Companys auditors are required directorships and no member of the committee participates to report to shareholders on the matters set out in the Regulations in any of the Companys remuneration, incentive or pension and the elements of the report which have been audited are arrangements nor do they have any involvement in the day-tohighlighted.
This report will be presented to shareholders for day running of the Company.
approval at the annual general meeting on 15 May 2013.
The committee met seven times during the year and details of In producing this report, the remuneration committee aims to attendance can be found in the corporate governance report comply with best practice guidelines, including guidance on page 42.
The activities of the committee during the year are produced by the Association of British Insurers and the National summarised in the committee calendar below.
The committee has also considered the UK Governments proposals for new pay disclosures which Terms of reference are due to come into force later in 2013 and has adopted some The committees terms of reference are available on the of these in advance of the requirements coming into effect.
com or from the Company secretary.
They were reviewed during the year.
The Committee The role of the Committee is to: Advisers determine and agree with the board the framework or broad Material advice and or services were provided to the committee policy for the remuneration of the chairman of the Company, during the year by: the executive directors and other members of the Company Deloitte LLP Deloitte executive board senior executives giving full regard to the matters set out in the UK Governance Code 2010 the Towers Watson Ltd Towers Watson Code.
When determining such framework or broad policy Martin Sawkins Group HR Director the committee shall consider the pay and conditions across Paul Grifths Company Secretary the rest of the Company Louise Baker Group Reward Director consult the chairman of the Company and the Chief Executive about its proposals relating to the remuneration of The group HR director has direct access to the chairman of the other executive directors committee and together with the group reward director advises the committee on remuneration matters relating to executive determine on the boards behalf the entire individual directors and members of the Company executive board.
remuneration packages for each executive director, and the chairman and to consider the level and structure of The Company Chairman attends meetings and makes remuneration for senior executives, giving full consideration recommendations in relation to the remuneration and incentive to the matters set out in the Code arrangements for the Chief Executive and the Chief Executive determine policy for the grant of awards options to executive attends and makes recommendations in respect of remuneration directors and senior executives, to ensure that they are arrangements for his direct reports.
No director or executive is provided with appropriate incentives consistent with the present when their own remuneration is under consideration.
Companys policy as stated in the Directors Remuneration Deloitte has been retained by the Committee to provide Report in the Companys last audited accounts independent advice on executive remuneration matters and on the approve all and any awards options to executive directors Companys long-term incentive arrangements.
Deloitte is a founding and senior executives, including consideration of the member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its quantum of grants and vesting schedules Code in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
set appropriate performance targets in connection with During the year Deloitte provided the Company with a limited level the awards and options of advice over non-remuneration matters, such as taxation and determine in conjunction with the Companys auditor, due diligence on acquisitions, although they are not the whether such performance targets have been satisfied Companys main source of advice in such areas.
Deloitte also acted as a co-source partner providing support to the internal appoint consultants in respect of executive director audit function.
Neither the quantum nor the nature of nonremuneration and make the terms of reference of such remuneration services provided by Deloitte represented a conict consultants, together with a statement of whether they have of interest over the rms role as advisers to the committee.
any other connection with the Company, available by placing it on the Companys website Towers Watsons involvement with the committee is limited to the ensure that contractual terms on termination affecting provision of market data on competitiveness and current trends executive directors and senior executives, and any payments for use in connection with remuneration matters.
Towers Watson made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure also advises the Company on UK pension scheme matters.
62 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report ensure alignment of executives with the overall shareholder Committee effectiveness objective of long-term value creation through linking a The committee conducted a review of its performance during the substantial part of the remuneration package to long-term year with the assistance of Lintstock, an external independent performance targets specialist consultancy.
The review concluded that the committee deliver a total reward package that is market aligned and continued to operate effectively and that individual directors provides upside for exceptional business performance whilst serving on the committee continued to have access to appropriate being affordable advice and information.
encourage executive behaviours consistent with Rentokil Initials Remuneration policy business values and risk appetite The Companys remuneration policy for executive directors and The committee reviews the total reward packages of the executive senior executives, which is summarised in the table below and directors and senior executives regularly to ensure that they are overleaf is designed to do the following: in line with policy.
The remuneration of colleagues throughout attract and retain the leadership talent needed to drive and the group is also considered by the committee when making deliver business growth, financial performance and other key recommendations for executive directors, as is feedback strategic priorities received from shareholders.
recognise and reward individual contribution to delivering Code Principle: D1 long-term, sustainable business performance Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run the Company successfully but a Company should avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
Key elements of Remuneration policy Base salary Objective and link to Principles and Opportunity Performance Changes to strategy operation measure policy in year To attract and retain Salaries are reviewed annually and Salaries are set taking into The payment of salary is None.
executives of the set on 1 January.
The decision takes account the factors described not dependent on achieving calibre required to into account: under Principles and performance targets but salary implement our operation.
levels are set taking into account strategy the market competitive range for individual performance, delivery companies of a similar size and against key personal objectives complexity andexperience.
individual skills and experience contribution to overall business performance pay conditions across the group external economic environment Annual bonus Objective and link to Principles and Opportunity Performance Changes to strategy operation measure policy in year Recognises and The structure is reviewed On target bonus opportunity: Group and regional profit, cash Minor rewards the periodically to ensure that it 50% of salary.
ow, revenue and other key changes to delivery of continues to support the businesss strategic performance targets.
individual Maximum bonus opportunity: exceptional short-term and long-term goals.
The weighting of each metric performance modier The committee reviews the annual reects executive director role Individual performance against annual outlined bonus opportunity periodically and responsibilities across the modiers, based on the financial, strategic on page 68. to ensure that it is competitive group and regions.
and operational outcome of the Companys goals and provided that targets are achieved.
performance development individual The annual bonus is normally paid in review process, can contribution to cash each year after the committee increase or decrease the Company performance has reviewed performance against opportunity stated above to targets for each executive director.
further recognise individual contribution to business A clawback provision exists to performance.
allow the committee to reduce any future bonus payments potentially For the operation of the to nil in the event of a material modier in 2012 see page misstatement of performance or 67.
For the operation of the in any other circumstances where modier in 2013 see page 68. the committee considers that this treatment is appropriate.
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 63 Long-term incentive The Performance Share Plan The PSP Objective and link to Principles and Opportunity Performance Changes to strategy operation measure policy in year To motivate and Awards are made each year over Target award: 120% of base Performance conditions have been None during incentivise delivery shares with a face value set by salary for the chief executive selected to reward achievements the year.
of specified reference to a multiple of base salary and 100% of base salary for against financial performance and Changes objectives which and vest three years later subject other executive directors.
the creation of shareholder value.
for 2013 to have been selected to create alignment to performance conditions and the apply below Target awards are subject to Awards are subject to: with our business individual performance modier.
board and an individual performance Relative Total Shareholder Return strategy to deliver company Award levels and performance modier which is based on performance over performance against the FTSE executive the long-term and conditions are reviewed periodically annual bonus performance 350 excluding financial services, create sustained board level to ensure they continue to support over the three years of the property and natural resources value for are shown the businesss long-term goals.
Award levels are set at a market This individual peformance Individual Performance Modier competitive level, relative to modier can increase the A relative TSR measure is companies of comparable size and PSP award to 200% of base used to ensure executives are complexity.
salary if exceptional individual incentivised to outperform key performance is delivered.
If A clawback provision exists peers and to ensure that the bonus targets are not met in to allow the committee to scale interests of executives are aligned each of the three years of the back awards that have not yet with shareholders.
TSR was also performance period the PSP vested potentially to nil in the selected to reect market practice award will reduce to 0%.
event of a material misstatement and shareholder preferences.
of performance or in other The maximum award is Achievement under the relative circumstances where the committee therefore 200% of base TSR performance measure is considers that this treatment is salary 250% in exceptional modied based on individual appropriate.
achievement of annual bonus targets in each of the three years of the performance period using the individual performance modier.
The individual performance modier is designed to incentivise and reward individual and business unit performance.
Pensions Objective and link to Principles and Opportunity Performance Changes to strategy operation measure policy in year To attract and Executive director pension Contribution of up to 25% of None.
retain executives of arrangements are by way of a base salary.
the calibre required dened contribution arrangement to implement our or through a cash alternative of a strategy similar value.
Benefits Objective and link to Principles and Opportunity Performance Changes to strategy operation measure policy in year To attract and Positioned to ensure broad Levels of benets are reviewed None.
retain executives of competitiveness with market periodically and set in line with the calibre required practice.
to implement our strategy The main benets for executive directors are: family healthcare car or allowance life assurance permanent health insurance Policy on new hires In the event of hiring a new executive director, the committee will the standard policy to facilitate the recruitment of an individual of seek to align the remuneration package with our remuneration the calibre required to deliver the groups strategy.
The committee policy outlined above.
However, the committee retains the will seek to ensure that such arrangements are cost effective and discretion to make appropriate remuneration proposals outside in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders.
64 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report These charts illustrate the current remuneration policy and Total remuneration opportunity therefore it does not take into account the one-off awards which Our remuneration arrangements are designed so that a significant were made in 2008 under the 2008 Share Incentive Plan to proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of short and longfacilitate the appointment of the Chief Executive, Alan Brown term goals that our aligned with our strategic objectives and the and the Executive Director, Andy Ransom further details relating creation of shareholder value.
to these awards are provided on page 69.
The methodology used to calculate the below tables is based on the research carried out by the Financial Reporting Lab.
Contracts of service The Companys policy is for executive directors to have rolling For the purposes of these illustrations, no share price growth contracts subject to one years notice.
or receipt of dividends is assumed.
The Companys policy in respect of the notice periods for the Chief Executive Alan Brown termination of executive directors contracts conforms to the Current value of remuneration package Code.
The remuneration and contractual arrangements for the 100% Fixed pay executive directors and senior management do not contain any matters that are required to be disclosed under The Takeovers On target 62% 24% 14% Directive.
The contracts of service for executive directors during 28% 27% 45% Maximum the year are as set out below.
The terms of the contracts have 0m 0.5m 1m 1.5m 2m 2.5m 3m 3.5m 4m not changed during the year.
Fixed pay Annual cash incentive Long-term incentive Contracts of service Executive Director & Managing Director, West region Andy Ransom Current value of remuneration package Executive Effective date Type of Notice Notice director of service agreement by the by the agreement Company director 100% Fixed pay 7 October Rolling 63% 25% 12% On target Alan Brown 12 months 12 months 2008 contract 29% 27% 44% Maximum 7 October Rolling Andy Ransom 12 months 12 months 2008 contract 0m 0.5m 1m 1.5m 2m 2.5m Fixed pay Annual cash incentive Long-term incentive 4 March Rolling Jeremy Townsend 12 months 6 months 2010 contract Chief Financial Officer Jeremy Townsend Current value of remuneration package 100% Fixed pay 61% 26% 13% On target Maximum 27% 27% 46% 0m 0.5m 1m 1.5m 2m 2.5m Fixed pay Annual cash incentive Long-term incentive In developing the scenarios above, the following assumptions have been made: Base Benefits Pension Total k k k fixed k Alan Brown 775 22 194 991 Andy Ransom 450 20 113 583 Jeremy Townsend 442 16 66 524 Target Based on what a director would receive if performance was at target Annual bonus pays out at 50% of the maximum PSP performance at median, therefore 25% of the total award vests This assumes a neutral individual performance modier Maximum Full payout of annual bonus i. e. 120% of base salary Full vesting of PSP award i. e. 200% of base salary This assumes a maximum individual performance modier Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 65 Exit payments policy Non-executive director appointment policy The committee is fully aware that under the Code, and acting The appointment policy for non-executive directors is that, subject within the contractual framework, it should take a robust line over to annual re-election at the annual general meeting, they should payments to departing directors.
The policy on termination other be appointed for an initial period of three years, which would be than by reason of resignation or unacceptable performance or extended for a further period of three years by mutual consent conduct is as follows: and thereafter reviewed annually, subject to acceptable tests of performance and independence.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts and they do not participate in any Exit payments policy of the Companys incentive schemes, nor are they eligible to Element Provision join the Companys pension scheme.
There are no provisions Base pay and benets On termination without notice, executive for notice periods or compensation in the event of termination directors are entitled to a payment equal to of the appointment of a non-executive director and no element base pay and the value of benets only for the duration of the notice period, subject to of their remuneration is performance related.
director has any personal interest other than as a shareholder in the matters under consideration, or any conicts of interest Bonus Executive directors may receive a pro-rated arising from other directorships which would impinge upon their bonus based on business and individual independence or objectivity or any day-to-day involvement in performance and the number of months running the business.
No director plays a part in any discussion service during the year to the date of leaving.
Expenses reasonably incurred in LTIP The Performance Where an executive director leaves in good the performance of their duties are reimbursed.
Share Plan leaver circumstances they may receive a pro-rated award, scaled back to reect the date of leaving based on the number Appointment policy of complete months worked during the Director Letter of Appointment performance period.
appointment period If the reason for leaving is a result of disability John McAdam 13 December 2012 3 years or death, relative TSR performance and Peter Bamford 15 December 2011 Annual the Individual Performance Modier will be Richard Burrows 15 December 2011 3 years measured up to the date of leaving and any Alan Giles 15 December 2011 Annual awards vested will be released immediately.
Peter Long 15 December 2011 Annual In all other circumstances, relative TSR William Rucker 15 December 2011 3 years performance will be measured over the full Angela Seymour-Jackson 5 March 2012 3 years three-year period with an average individual Duncan Tatton-Brown 15 December 2011 Annual performance modier applied to the level of awards based on relative TSR performance.
All directors are subject to annual re-election at the annual general meeting.
The average individual performance modier Resigned on 14 March 2013. is based on the average of the calculated individual performance modiers during Non-executive director fees employment.
Any vested awards will be released at the end of the performance period.
Non-executive director fees In the event of a change of control, outstanding awards may vest taking into Position Fees for year ended 31.12.2012 account the time elapsed and performance to the date of the change of control.
Non-executive director 55,000 per annum Senior independent director Additional 5,000 per annum Chairman of Audit Committee Additional 15,000 per annum Chairman Chairman of Remuneration Additional 15,000 per annum Committee The Chairman, John McAdam, has a revised letter of appointment, dated 13 December 2012, setting out his responsibilities for the management of the board under which he receives fees of The above amounts are included in the pay and benets table on 350,000 per annum.
Fees have not changed since appointment page 70 which has been audited.
A number of minor adjustments were made to the The non-executive directors remuneration is determined by the chairmans appointment terms during the year.
On termination of board on the recommendation of the non-executive directors fees the appointment before May 2013 the Company and the Chairman committee of the board comprising the Chairman, the Chief are entitled to four months notice, reducing to two months notice Executive and the Chief Financial officer within the limits set by in the year to May 2014 with no notice provision on either side the articles of association and based on independent surveys of thereafter.
The Chairman received an award on appointment fees paid to non-executive directors of similar companies.
under the 2008 Plan, approved by shareholders, details of which are described below and in the schedule of interests in shares The levels of fees for non-executive directors were increased by shown on page 72.
The Chairman is not eligible to participate the committee in 2009 based on external market data at which in the Companys annual bonus plan or in the Companys time they were set at the levels shown in the table.
The level of Performance Share Plan.
fees was reviewed during the year and considered to remain appropriate for 2013.
66 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report over a period of up to five years from appointment and Executive directors external appointments subsequently maintain an economic interest in Company shares Executive directors are entitled, subject to board approval of the with a market value equivalent to their annual salary.
The specic appointment, to accept one non-executive directorship committee may take into account directors compliance with or similar appointment outside the Company and to retain the fees the shareholding guidelines acknowledging any special in connection with such appointment.
circumstances that might apply when considering future longThe Chief Executive, Alan Brown, joined the board of Intertek term incentive awards.
Group plc on 15 April 2011 as a non-executive director.
He received and retained non-executive directors fees for the period Contracts and appointment letters ended 31December 2012 of 60,000 2011: 32,000.
No other Copies of Executive directors service contracts and nonexecutive director currently holds an external non-executive executive directors letters of appointment are available for director post.
inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered ofce and on the Companys website at www.
com Jeremy Townsend is a director of a business run by a member of his family for which he received no remuneration.
He has no Remuneration committee calendar executive involvement in the business and the appointment does not represent a conict of interest.
The committee met seven times in 2012 and in addition was consulted on various remuneration issues between formal meetings.
A summary of the matters considered by the committee Executive shareholding requirements during the year is shown in the calendar below and further Recognising investors preferences for executive shareholding information on remuneration and incentive arrangements relating requirements, the Company introduced shareholding guidelines in to the year under review is set out in this report.
Executive directors will be expected to build if necessary, February June Ad-hoc meetings Considered and approved bonus confirmed the non-vesting and lapse of To deal with adjustments on engagement outcomes for executive directors and PSP awards made in June 2009 under and incentive terms for executives senior management for the previous year the performance share plan reporting to the Chief Executive below board level, including to provide shortReviewed key trends in market practice Approved outcome of performance term incentives to the management of and market competitiveness of against targets set in respect of longthe City Link business remuneration packages for executive term incentive share awards to John directors and senior management McAdam, Alan Brown and Andy Ransom showing that no further awards vested at Considered and approved salary, bonus the second vesting date structure, targets and performance objectives for the current year, including Authorised the lapse of options issued 2013 clawback provisions in bonus plans in 2002 under the previously operated At a meeting following the year end but executive share option scheme Considered preliminary proposals for prior to the publication of this report, the Performance Share Plan PSP awards Undertook a review of government committee undertook the following: to be considered at the next meeting proposals on executive remuneration approved the base salaries of executive including plan rule changes to introduce reporting for 2014 directors and the senior management clawback provisions team for 2013 Approved the committees report to approved the outcomes of the 2012 shareholders for the prior year annual bonus plan for executive directors Reviewed findings of the performance and the senior management team and December evaluation of the committees the structure of targets for the 2013 effectiveness Undertook a forward-looking annual bonus plan remuneration review with input and approved this directors remuneration analysis provided by Deloitte report contained within the 2012 annual Discussed executive remuneration report and accounts May reporting for the year and changes for approved targets for 2013 long-term 2013 Approved changes to PSP rules incentive awards introducing clawback provisions Undertook a preliminary review of LTIP performance conditions for the following Reviewed and approved PSP vesting year methodology Initiated a longer-term review of the Approved PSP awards for the current structure of LTIP performance criteria year Discussed provisional proposals for Reviewed changes to legislation relating bonus plan structure for the following year to retirement provisions affecting colleagues in the UK Reviewed the committees terms of reference Code Principle: D2 There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration and for xing the remuneration packages of individual directors.
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 67 Base salaries 2012 bonus structure Executive directors and senior management salaries are reviewed For 2012 the committee approved a bonus plan for executive with effect from 1 January each year.
Base salaries reect the role, directors and the groups senior management, which was broadly individual experience, skills and contribution to overall business similar in structure to the 2011 bonus plan.
The metrics for the performance as well as external market conditions in accordance executive directors are set out in the second annual bonus plan with the remuneration policy set out earlier in this report.
The base salaries for the Chief Executive, Alan Brown, and the Payout for the achievement of revenue targets and key Executive Director, Andy Ransom, have not changed since their performance indicators may only be made if profit thresholds appointment in 2008.
Whilst these base salaries are considered to areachieved.
be market competitive, the majority of their earning opportunity is The committee believes that these metrics provide the right linked to variable pay and aligned to the interests of shareholders.
combination of incentivising executives to focus on top and On a review of the economic and market considerations in the bottom line financial performance while strengthening our cash UK, where average pay increases in the Company were in the position and delivering upon agreed strategic goals.
order of 2%, the committee agreed that base salaries of executive The individual performance modiers based on the outcome directors for 2013 should be as set out below.
The committee also of the Companys performance development review process took into account pay across the group.
continued to be as follows: Salary with effect from 1 January 2013 Individual performance modifiers Director 2013 Salary Rating of 1 Rating of 2 Rating of 3 Rating of 4 Rating of 5 Alan Brown 775,000 no increase 0% 85% 100% 110% 120% Jeremy Townsend 442,170 2% increase Andy Ransom 450,000 no increase In addition to executive directors, over 500 senior executives also participate in the annual bonus plan.
The performance measures Levels of pay changes agreed locally will vary depending on local relate to group, divisional and business revenue, profit and cash economic and market conditions, statutory requirements and on performance as well as customer care and non-financial personal individual business performance.
Annual bonus plan The committee sets the performance measures and targets for the bonus scheme annually to ensure they continue to support the businesss short-term and long-term goals.
The annual bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive and other executive directors continues to be 100% of base salary before the application of the personal modier, subject to meeting the stretching performance targets described below.
This can be increased or decreased by an individual performance modier, based on the outcome of the Companys performance development review process.
Annual bonus plan Metrics Profit Cash Revenue Key performance indicators Threshold to maximum as range around budget 95% to 110% 95% to 110% 99% to 102% Individually measured based on agreed goals linked to business strategy Alan Brown Chief Executive 40% group 20% group 20% group 20% Andy Ransom 10% group 5% group 5% group n a Executive Director & Managing Director, West region 40% division 10% division 30% division Jeremy Townsend Chief Financial officer 50% group 30% group n a 20% 68 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report and negative of this modier would be enhanced.
The individual 2012 bonus outcome performance multiplier has therefore been changed as shown in The committee reviewed the 2012 bonus plan outcome for the the second table below.
groups senior management population based on the targets set at the start of the financial year.
At executive director level for group Payment will only be made in respect of other measures if profit performance, bonus was earned only in respect of cash generation thresholds are achieved.
The committee believes that these where plan targets were exceeded.
Alan Brown therefore received measures continue to support the delivery of long-term, sustained a bonus of 16% of base salary and Jeremy Townsend received a business growth and financial performance.
Andy Ransoms bonus included a To continue to reinforce the link between bonus payment and small element relating to group cash but the majority related to the individual contribution, personal performance modiers have revenue, profit and cash performance of the businesses for which been set as follows: he is responsible.
Andy Ransoms bonus was 34% of base salary.
Bonus outcomes for executive directors are shown in the total pay Personal performance modifiers and benets table on page 70.
Rating of 1 Rating of 2 Rating of 3 Rating of 4 Rating of 5 0% 75% 100% 110% 125% 2013 bonus structure 85% for 120% for 2012 For 2013 the committee has approved the following structure of 2012 The total bonus bonuses for the executive directors.
The 2013 bonus is broadly payment is subject the same as the structure in place for the 2012 bonus.
However, to a cap of 120% during the year the Committee reviewed the operation of the of base salary individual performance modier and decided that in order to incentivise strong personal performance the impact both positive 2013 bonus structure Metrics Profit Cash Revenue Key performance indicators Threshold to maximum as range around budget 95% to 110% 95% to 110% 99% to 102% Individually measured based on agreed goals linked to business strategy Alan Brown Chief Executive 50% group 20% group 20% group 10% Andy Ransom 20% group 20% region 20% region n a Executive Director & Managing Director, West region 40% region Jeremy Townsend Chief Financial officer 50% group 30% group n a 20% Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 69 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between each point Long-term share incentive plans above.
There are two plans covering the executive and senior management team, the Performance Share Plan the PSP and Accordingly, there is the possibility that awards could vest at two the 2008 Share Incentive Plan the 2008 Plan.
In the event of times the target number of shares, if the business achieves upper a change of control, outstanding awards may vest taking into quartile TSR performance over the performance period and account the time elapsed and performance to the date of the financial performance that result in maximum bonus outcomes change of control.
in each of the three consecutive financial years for the relevant business unit.
The Performance Share Plan For other participants in the plan, the individual performance The PSP enables participants, selected on a discretionary basis, modier range is 50% to 150%, as described in the 2011 report.
to earn shares in the Company based on achieving stretching performance targets.
In normal circumstances awards are made As reported last year, PSP awards from 2012 are subject to a annually, with the maximum value ranging from 25% to 200% of clawback provision allowing the committee to scale back awards base salary, depending on seniority.
In exceptional circumstances prior to vesting in the event of a material misstatement an award of up to 250% of base salary could be made in any one of performance or in other circumstances where the committee year.
Details of awards made to executive directors are set out in considers that this treatment is appropriate.
the share incentive awards table on page 71.
2009 PSP vesting PSP performance conditions Relative TSR performance for 2009-2011 was tested in June 2012 Awards are subject to the two performance measures described and as the Companys position relative to the comparator group below.
was below median, no award vested and the award lapsed.
Relative TSR performance: measured relative to the 2012 PSP award constituents of the FTSE 350 index, excluding financial services, 277 senior managers across the group received awards under the property and primary resources sectors.
25% of the initial PSP plan in 2012.
A target award of 120% of base salary for the award will vest if Rentokils performance is positioned at median chief executive and 100% of base salary for the other executive against the comparator group with the full initial award vesting directors was made during the year, with the opportunity of a for upper quartile TSR performance.
Vesting is on a straight-line maximum vesting of 200% of salary for maximum outperformance basis between these two points.
under the individual performance modier.
PSP opportunities are A relative TSR measure is used to ensure participants are unchanged from previous years.
The awards are subject to the incentivised to outperform key peers and to ensure that the achievement of stretching relative TSR performance conditions interests of management are aligned with shareholders.
TSR over a three-year period, as described above, and are also subject was also selected to reect market practice and shareholder to the individual performance modier.
The FTSE 350 is recognised as a broad index and directors are shown in the share incentive awards table on page 71. is considered to be an appropriate benchmark for measuring performance given the Companys membership of the FTSE 2013 PSP award 250, the scope and scale of the Companys international There are no changes proposed for the 2013 award for executive operations, and the diverse nature of companies in the business directors.
The committee has reviewed the operation of the individual Individual performance modier For executive directors, the performance modier for other participants, following feedback effect of the individual performance modier as set out in the on complexity of design and its impact on understanding and table below, is to reduce the level of award that would otherwise future retention.
As a result it is planned that the individual vest if an individual fails to reach threshold performance under performance modier will be removed for awards in 2013 for the annual bonus in each of the three years of the performance participants other than for executive directors and members of period to zero, and increase vesting to a maximum of 200% if the company executive board and a full review of the on-going above bonus target performance is achieved effectiveness and structure of the PSP will take place during 2013 covering all participants for 2014 onwards.
Individual performance modifiers Achievement against annual Below Threshold Target Maximum bonus targets in respect of each threshold financial year average over performance period Individual performance 0% 20% 100% 200% modier 70 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report The 2008 Plan Share plan funding The 2008 Plan was approved by shareholders in 2008 to facilitate Typically, shares granted under the executive incentive plans are the appointment of John McAdam, Alan Brown and Andy Ransom satisfied by shares purchased in the market or by transfer from the and to motivate them to deliver a turnaround in corporate Companys employee share trust.
To the extent shares are newly performance.
Details of awards made under the 2008 Plan are issued to satisfy awards, the Company complies with ABI dilution set out in the share incentive awards table on page 71.
No further guidelines on their issue.
awards may be made under the Plan.
Pensions The key features of the Plan were that awards would vest based Executive directors participate in dened contribution pension on absolute share price performance targets.
A minimum share arrangements or receive additional gross salary in lieu of pension price of 1.20 achieved over a sustained period 60 consecutive contributions from the Company at a rate of up to 25% of base dealing days during the performance measurement period would salary.
Alan Brown and Andy Ransom received a cash supplement allow 20% of the award to be earned, rising on a straight-line basis in lieu of a pension contribution in 2012.
Jeremy Townsend to full vesting at a share price of 1.80.
For achieving growth in participated in the Companys dened contribution pension market value between 1.80 and 2.80, further shares may be scheme on the basis of 77% of the 15% of salary employer earned on a straight-line basis up to a maximum of a further 50% contribution to which he is entitled under current group policy of the original award.
and received a cash supplement for the balance.
A cash During the first half of 2010 the Companys share price achieved supplement in lieu of pension scheme contribution is not a 60 day highest average share price of 130.82p and therefore counted as salary for bonus purposes.
34.43% of the award was earned, with one third vesting in 2011, a further one third in 2012 and the remaining third in 2013.
No further shares were earned when performance was tested in 2012.
The Plan is subject to a final performance test in May 2013.
Pay and benefits The table below sets out the pay and benets of directors.
The following table has been audited: Base Allowances Pension Termination 2012 2011 salary fees benefits related benefit Bonus payments Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 John McAdam 350 350 350 i Alan Brown 775 22 194 124 1,115 991 Peter Bamford 55 55 55 Richard Burrows 55 55 55 Alan Giles 70 70 55 Peter Long 60 60 75 i Andy Ransom 450 20 113 156 739 678 ii William Rucker 55 55 55 Angela Seymour-Jackson 41 41 i Jeremy Townsend 434 16 65 104 619 505 Duncan Tatton-Brown 70 70 70 2012 2,415 58 372 384 3,229 2011 2,365 58 371 95 2,889 i Executive directors are provided with life insurance, private health cover and a Company car or a car allowance.
The value of the benets is included under Allowances benets in the above table.
ii William Rucker stood down as a director on 14 March 2013.
Awards under the Plan are subject to a performance condition set out in this report and relate to share price performance between 1 April 2008 and three specified vesting dates in 2011, 2012 and 2013.
These vesting dates will be 61 dealing days after the announcement of the Companys financial results for years ending 31 December 2010 first vesting date, 31 December 2011 second vesting date and 31 December 2012 third vesting date.
ii At the first vesting date on 20 May 2011 i. e. 61 dealing days after 31 December 2010 results were announced, 34.43% of the total plan interest at 1 January 2011 vested, resulting in each participant being awarded 2,582,250 shares.
Following dividend readjustment, the total balance due to each participant at 31 December 2011 was 2,618,485.
The first one-third of this 872,828 shares was released to each participant on 20 May 2011 first vesting date, a further 872,828 was be released on 20 May 2012 second vesting date and a final 872,828 will be released in June 2013 third vesting date.
The remaining 4,917,750 shares have not yet vested and continue to be subject to performance conditions.
If the share price over a 60 day average period exceeds 130.82p before the end of the performance period in May 2013, further shares may be earned under this 2008 Plan.
iii The PSP 2009 award was tested in June 2012.
The median TSR performance condition for the three-year performance measurement period was not met.
Therefore the PSP 2009 share awards lapsed on 12 June 2012. iv The maximum PSP plan vesting is only applicable in the event of upper quartile TSR performance and maximum annual bonus outperformance for participants for the three-year performance measurement period.
No shares will vest if TSR performance is below median at the end of the vesting period or if threshold financial performance conditions are not met.
v Jeremy Townsend was awarded compensatory share awards on 1 September 2010.
113,273 shares vested on 1 September 2011 the first award vesting date and were acquired on 29 September 2011.
58,902 shares were sold to satisfy the related tax liability.
The balance of 54,371 shares held by Mr. Townsend is included in the directors interests in shares table on page 72.
The second tranche of 90,618 shares vested on 1 September 2012 the second award vesting date and have not yet been exercised.
