Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements Accounting Policies 85 b Rental income Discontinued operations Rental assets such as tropical plants, washroom equipment, A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that has garments, linen, security equipment, etc.
which are owned by either been disposed of, or that is classied as held for sale, which group entities or where at least substantially all the risks and represents a separate major line of business or geographical area rewards of ownership of such equipment are retained by group of operations and is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of entities are capitalised as xed assets and depreciated over a separate line of business or geographical area of operations.
Leases All rental income received or receivable in respect of rental assets Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group has is accounted for on an operating lease basis.
Income from the substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied rental of these assets is credited to revenue on a strict timeas finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases apportioned basis.
inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and c Interest income the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease Interest income is recognised on a time-apportioned basis using payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, being the estimated future cash ow discounted at the original are included in other payables.
The interest element of the finance effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so the discount as interest income.
Interest income on impaired loans as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining is recognised either as cash is collected or on a cost-recovery balance of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and basis as conditions warrant.
equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Taxation The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of tax.
ownership are retained by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income that it relates to items recognised directly in equity.
In this case statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
the tax is also recognised in equity.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax Dividend distribution laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised in the countries where the Companys subsidiaries and associates as a liability in the groups financial statements in the period in operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically which the dividends are approved by the Companys evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of Financial instruments amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the Assets held for sale relevant instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and a party to such provisions.
liabilities are classied as held for sale if it is highly probable that Financial assets they will be recovered primarily through sale rather than through The group classies its financial assets in the following categories: continuing use.
financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans Immediately before classication as held for sale, the assets, or and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
The components of a disposal group, are remeasured in accordance classication depends on the purpose for which the financial with the groups other accounting policies.
Thereafter generally, assets were acquired.
Management determines the classication the assets, or disposal group are measured at the lower of their of its investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any impairment designation at every reporting date.
The group assesses at each loss on a disposal group is allocated first to goodwill, and then to balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that the remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis.
Impairment financial assets are impaired.
losses on initial classication as held or sale and subsequent gains All financial assets are held at amortised cost except for and losses on remeasurement are recognised in the income derivatives, which are classied as held for trading unless in a statement.
Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative hedging relationship and certain assets classied as availableimpairment loss.
for-sale, which are held at fairvalue.
Once classied as held for sale, intangible assets and property, a Financial assets at fair value through plant and equipment are no longer amortised or depreciated.
the income statement Assets are classied as current if they are expected to be realised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
