86 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements Accounting Policies b Loans and receivables The group documents at the inception of the transaction the Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking market.
They arise when the group provides money, goods various hedge transactions.
The group also documents its or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the assessment, both at hedge inception and on an on-going basis, receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions maturities greater than 12 months from the balance sheet are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged date.
These are classied as non-current assets.
receivables include trade and other receivables and cash a Fair value hedge and other equivalents.
Loans and receivables are measured Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, subject to impairment.
together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or c Available-for-sale financial assets liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that b Net investment hedge are either designated in this category or not classied in any Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or loss unless management intends to dispose of the investment relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in within 12months of the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity Available-for-sale investments are fair valued and changes to are included in the income statement when the foreign operation market values are recognised in equity.
On subsequent disposal is disposed of.
or impairment, the accumulated gains and losses, previously c Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting recognised in equity, are recognised in the income statement Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
as gains and losses from investment securities.
The group Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective qualify for hedge accounting are immediately recognised in the evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is incomestatement.
In the case of equity securities classied as availablefor-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of d Cash ow hedge the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity.
for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the Any ineffective portion is immediately recognised in the income difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair statement.
The gains or losses that are recognised in equity are value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously transferred to the consolidated income statement in the same recognised in the income statement is removed from equity period in which the hedged cash ows affect the consolidated and recognised in the income statement.
In the event the hedge item is no longer recognised in the income statement on equity instruments expected to occur or the hedge relationship ceases to be effective, are not reversed through the income statement.
accumulated gains or losses held in the cash ow hedge reserve are immediately recognised in the income statement.
Financial liabilities All financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the Fair value estimation effective interest rate method except for derivatives, which are The fair value of any financial instruments traded in active markets classied as held for trading except where they qualify for hedge is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
accounting and are held at fair value.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Financial liabilities held at amortised cost include trade payables, group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market vacant property provisions, deferred consideration and price for financial liabilities is the current ask price.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are Accounting for derivative financial instruments used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated and hedging activities discounted cash ows, are used to determine fair value for the Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of interest rate and derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently recurrency swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
The method future cash ows.
of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
nature of the item being hedged.
The group designates certain The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an derivatives as either 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The assets or liabilities, 2 hedges of net investments in foreign group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are operations or 3 cash ow hedges.
based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
