Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts significant accounting policies Future accounting policies The Restaurant Group plc the Company is a company At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, incorporated and registered in Scotland.
The consolidated the following Standards and Interpretations which have not financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 been applied in these financial statements were in issue but December 2012 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest adopted by the EU : in its associate.
IFRS 1 amended Government Loans a Statement of compliance IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Offsetting Financial The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Assets and Financial Liabilities accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Annual Improvements 2009 2011 Cycle IFRSs and its interpretations adopted by the International to IFRSs Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the European Union.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 Consolida ted Financial Statements b Going concern basis IFRS 10, IFRS 12 Investment entities The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on and IAS 27 amended a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquires, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence IFRS 12 D isclosure of Interests for the foreseeable future at the time of approving the financial in Other Entities statements.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Group and further comments on going concern are set out IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements in the report of the Directors on pages 16 to 23.
IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates c Basis of preparation and Joint Ventures The accounting year runs to a Sunday within seven days of IAS 32 amended Offsetting Financial Assets 31 December each year which will be a 52 or 53 week period.
and Financial Liabilities IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded Phase of a Surface Mine to the nearest thousand.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis except derivative financial instruments The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards which are held at their fair value.
Non-current assets and listed above will have a material impact on the financial assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount statements of the Group in future periods, except as follows: and fair value less costs to sell.
IFRS 7 amended will increase the disclosure requirements where netting arrangements are in place The preparation of financial statements in conformity with for financial assets and financial liabilities: IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and of Financial Instruments: expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are IFRS 12 will impact the disclosure of interests the Group based on historical experience and various other factors that has in other entities: and are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the IFRS 13 will impact the measurement of fair value for results of which form the basis of making the judgments certain assets and liabilities as well as the associated about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not disclosures.
readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed a detailed review has been completed.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2012 37 Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts continued d Basis of consolidation Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at i Subsidiaries cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for so as to obtain benets from its activities.
In assessing hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group or convertible are taken into account, regardless of does not currently hold any derivative financial instruments.
managements intention to exercise that option or warrant.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount consolidated financial statements from the date that control that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap commences until the date that control ceases.
at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap ii Associates counterparties.
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant inuence, but not control, over the financial and g Property, plant and equipment operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from see accounting policy l. the date that significant inuence commences until the date that significant inuence ceases.
When the Groups share Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items carrying amount would be reduced to nil and recognition of property, plant and equipment.
of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks made payments on behalf of an associate.
and rewards of ownership are classied as finance leases.
The owner-occupied properties excluding land element iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount Intragroup balances and any gains and losses or income and equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated see accounting policy l. Lease payments are accounted for to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised as described in accounting policy s. losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Subsequent costs The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of e Foreign currency property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated of such an item when that cost is incurred if it is probable into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of that the future economic benets embodied with the item will the balance sheet.
Transactions in foreign currencies are ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the date of reliably.
All other costs are recognised in the income the transaction.
The profit and loss accounts for overseas statement as an expense as incurred.
operations are translated at the average rate of exchange for the periods covered by the accounts.
Exchange differences Depreciation that relate to the net equity investment in overseas activities Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a are taken directly to reserves.
straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated f Derivative financial instruments useful lives are as follows: The Group uses derivative financial instruments, where appropriate, to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks Freehold land indefinite arising from operational, nancing and investment activities.
Freehold buildings 50 years In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not Long and short leasehold property Term of lease or 50 hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading years, whichever is lower purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge Fixtures and equipment 3-10 years accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Motor vehicles 4 years Computer equipment 3-5 years 38 Annual Report 2012 The Restaurant Group plc Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements h Intangible assets Goodwill For goodwill and assets that have an indefinite useful life, the All business combinations are accounted for by applying recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
Goodwill represents amounts arising An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the income statement and are not subsequently reversed.
the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identiable assets acquired.
m Share-based payment transactions The share option programme allows Group employees to The classication and accounting treatment of business acquire shares of the Company and all options are equitycombinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 has not settled.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an been reconsidered in preparing the Groups opening IFRS employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is measured using a Stochastic model, taking into account the formally tested bi-annually for impairment see accounting terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
policy l. In respect of associates, the carrying amount of The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reect goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment the actual number of share options that vest except where in the associate.
forfeiture is only due to market based conditions not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Any excess of fair value of net assets over consideration on acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement.
n Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the i Trade and other receivables Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less result of a past event, and it is probable that an outow of impairment losses see accounting policy l. economic benets will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting j Stock the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that reects Stock is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
current market assessments of the time value of money and, Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the where appropriate, the risks specic to the liability.
ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
o Deferred and current tax Corporation tax payable is provided on the taxable profit at k Cash and cash equivalents the current rate.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the deferred form an integral part of the Groups cash management are tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Temporary included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for differences are differences between the carrying amount of the purpose of the statement of cash ows.
the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
l Impairment Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed at apply in the periods in which the temporary differences are each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that are indication of impairment.
enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
For property, plant and equipment, the carrying value of each cash generating unit CGU is compared to its p Pensions estimated value in use.
Value in use calculations are based The Group makes contributions for selected employees into on discounted cash ows over the remaining useful life of the dened contribution pension plans and these contributions are CGU between 2 and 50 years.
The discount rate used is charged to the income statement as they become payable.
the rate believed by the Board to reect the risks associated The Group does not operate any dened benefit plans.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2012 39 Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts continued q Onerous contracts Critical accounting judgements and key sources Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when the of estimation and uncertainty expected benets to be derived by the Group from a contract In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations as described above, management has made a number of under the contract.
judgements and estimations of which the following are the most significant: r Revenue Revenue represents amounts received and receivable for a Impairment of carrying value of associate services and goods provided excluding value added tax The investment in Living Ventures Restaurants Group Limited and voluntary gratuities left by customers for the benefit of and the loan note of 10.4m receivable from a subsidiary of employees and is recognised at the point of sale.
that company were fully provided against in the years ended 30 December 2007 and 31 December 2006.
Following a s Expenses review of the trading performance of the company, the i Operating lease payments Directors have concluded that this treatment is appropriate Payments made under operating leases are recognised in and no adjustment has been made in either the current or the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term the previous year.
Further details are provided in note 12. of the lease.
Incentives to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term as b Impairment of goodwill and property, plant a reduction in rental expense.
and equipment The Group formally determines whether property, plant and ii Finance lease payments equipment and goodwill are impaired on a bi-annual basis.
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the This requires the Group to determine the lowest level of finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
assets which generate largely independent cash ows The finance charge is allocated to each period during the cash generating units or CGU and to estimate the value in lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of use of these assets or CGUs: and compare these to their interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Cash generating units are deemed to be individual units, a collection of units or a brand depending on iii Pre-opening expenses the nature of the trading environment in which they operate.
Property rentals and related costs incurred up to the Calculating the value in use requires the Group to make an date of opening of a new restaurant are written off to the estimate of the future cash ows of each CGU and to choose income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present Promotional and training costs are written off to the income value of those cash ows.
The discount rate used in the statement in the period in which they are incurred.
year ended 30 December 2012 for all CGU was based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital of 8.6% iv Borrowing costs year ended 1 January 2012: 8.4% as the Directors believe Debt is stated net of borrowing costs which are spread there are broadly equal risks associated with each CGU.
No over the term of the loan.
All other borrowings costs are impairment is required in the year ended 30 December 2012. recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
t Dividend policy In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability at that balance sheet date, and are recognised in the financial statements when they have received approval by shareholders.
40 Annual Report 2012 The Restaurant Group plc
