Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of The Restaurant Group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements Opinion on financial statements of The Restaurant Group plc for the 52 week period ended In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 30 December 2012 which comprise the Company balance give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys sheet and the related notes i to v. The financial reporting affairs as at 30 December 2012: framework that has been applied in their preparation is have been properly prepared in accordance with United applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Companies Act 2006 so that we might state to the Companys members those In our opinion: matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by the part of the Directors remuneration report to be law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone audited has been properly prepared in accordance other than the Company and the Companys members as with the Companies Act 2006: and a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions the information given in the report of the Directors we have formed.
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Matters on which we are required to report of the parent company financial statements and for being by exception satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you financial statements in accordance with applicable law and if, in our opinion: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those adequate accounting records have not been kept by the standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts agreement with the accounting records and returns: or and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud by law are not made: or or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the we have not received all the information and explanations accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys we require for our audit.
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Other matter accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall We have reported separately on the Group financial presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read statements of The Restaurant Group plc for the 52 week all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual period ended 30 December 2012.
Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent Mark Lee-Amies, FCA Senior statutory auditor material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP implications for our report.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 27 February 2013 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2012 63
