54 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report sustainability commitment operations we will meet long term environmental and regulatory trends with innovative new products Rexam continues to improve material efficiency and reduce energy Innovation is a key driver for our commercial success and a consumption through the consistent application of lean enterprise sustainable future.
We continue to support our customers in and six sigma methodologies.
We have a long established internal bringing new products to market to anticipate trends and delight process measuring lean enterprise progress, with an award system consumers.
We innovate our processes to manufacture these of Bronze, Silver, Gold and Beyond Gold.
Ongoing training in lean products in a more sustainable way and to meet environmental tools is well established and integrated into all levels of our plant andregulatory trends.
In 2012, 90% of our plants 2011: 70% achieved Gold or Beyond Gold.
Our growing sophistication in this In 2012, using technology road mapping, our Innovation Council mapped out value creation opportunities in the light of current and area allows us to look for ever more opportunities beyond simply future trends and market drivers.
Chaired by the newly created manufacturing.
In 2012, for example, our South American director of technology, the Council supports and coordinates Beverage Can headquarters was accredited as Beyond Gold.
innovation and technology activities across the business and The number of our plants engaged in the Shingo accreditation manages the delivery of the global innovation programmes.
process for operational excellence has doubled this year to six and is expected to increase even further through 2013 as we seek In Healthcare, we made good progress on our key innovation programmes, industrialising our next generation nasal spray to internalise the principles of the world renowned Shingo Institute.
Advancia and our needle stick prevention device SafenSound.
Our fundamental belief in improving all our processes all of the time has led us to develop a concept we are calling Zero Loss.
In addition, our preservative free technology for multidose eye Wewill take our shared knowledge and experience to improve droppers Novelia also attracted strong customer interest.
theefficiency and safety of all of our processes with the aim of Regarding funding during 2012, we invested 8m in R&D achieving, over time, zero accidents, zero breakdowns and incontinuing operations 2011: 8m.
construction and testing of preproduction prototypes, models and processes.
We also won UK Technology Strategy Board funding commitment tofurther explore and develop a specific process innovation.
we will improve our material efficiency Ouroperations also invested in related new product and process Material efficiency measures not only the benefit of lightweighting initiatives such as line speed ups and printing techniques programmes but also the improvement in how many products we seepage29 which are not reported in the statutoryfigure.
are able to manufacture from a tonne of raw material.
key measures and targets Adoption of a new lightweight can end called CDL continued.
Following the set up of our global innovation programmes, we will Ituses 10% less metal compared with the standard beverage can now measure the delivery of the technology platforms within these ends and during 2012 some 20bn ends were manufactured with as a key metric to ensure success.
This, combined with other downgauging and lightweighting programmes, helped achieve an overall improvement in metal savings of 7,700 tonnes corresponding toacarbon benefit of around 70,000 tonnes CO e. 2 shape of things to come TM In 2012, following the success of the FUSION bottle, Rexam launched a prototype of its innovative FUSION Contour bottle.
Based on the technology to make traditional cans, the new bottle is contoured rather than straight walled.
It maintains the key functional elements and graphic potential of its forerunner.
The new shape showcases the versatility of Rexams innovative technology and enables usto broaden our offering to customers.
See more on innovative printing techniques on page 29.
55 We continued to make progress improving raw material efficiency, Regarding water, there is no water embedded in our products cutting the tonnes of raw material per tonne of production by 2% to andall water we use is recycled and returned locally with 1.23 2011: 1.25.
This result was driven by continued sharing of approximately 15% loss due to process evaporation.
In our operational best practice and the ongoing application of six sigma beverage can plants, we reuse the water from the can washer and lean enterprise.
All scrap metal from the manufacturing many times over during the manufacturing process via closed loop process is collected and sent back to our suppliers for reprocessing recovery systems.
Reductions in water consumption form part of back into new coils.
our manufacturing excellence programme and we share best practice across our plants to reduce further our consumption.
key measures The key measures for this commitment are the conversion Our water consumption in can end plants and our Healthcare efficiencies across the Group, and the Group annual operations is almost negligible.
lightweighting savings for beverage cans.
In line with key measures and targets one of our four core values, we target continuous improvement The key measures we use to monitor our performance in reducing inmaterial efficiency.
our use of energy and water, and in improving our carbon efficiency, are our consumption of resources and our scope 1 2012 2011 2010 and 2 carbon emissions normalised against production.
Tonnes of raw Group 1.23 1.25 1.25 materialper For Beverage Cans, we are targeting a reduction in energy Beverage Cans 1.24 1.27 1.26 tonne of intensity of 10% and in the Healthcare business by 8%, between 1 production Healthcare 1.05 1.05 1.04 2010 and 2013.
Lightweighting We measure our Group carbon efficiency normalised against savings 000 tonnes Beverage Cans 7.7 10.0 11.7 production, with a target of reducing the carbon intensity per kilogram of production by 10% between 2010 and2013.
1 2011 and 2010 restated to reflect improved data consistency.
We are still in the process of developing measures and targets for commitment water consumption.
we will improve our carbon efficiency and reduce the energy and water we use 2014 targets 2012 2011 2010 MWh of gas electricity Across the business, we consume electricity, natural gas and water and we are committed to reducing their usage.
used per tonne of can 10% 1 production vs 2011 2.87 2.91 2.93 Over 500 energy savings projects were completed in 2012 across MWh of gas electricity our beverage can plants.
These contributed to a 6% reduction in used per tonne of plastic 8% our CO intensity for our Beverage Cans business.
Notable 2 production vs 2011 3.20 3.46 3.52 examples were the installation of new generation oxidisers, variable frequency motors, LED lighting as well as new heat Total Group carbon recovery systems.
intensity kg carbon per 10% 1 kg of production vs 2011 0.90 0.93 0.97 For the past three years Rexam has submitted scope 1 and 2 emissions to CDP.
Participation in the CDP enables us to 1 2011 and 2010 restated to reflect improved data consistency.
demonstrate to our customers and other stakeholders our commitment and progress towards lowering our carbon footprint.
During 2012, we concluded a pilot project to measure our corporate scope 3 emissions indirect emissions from sources not directly controlled by the organisation.
This work has helped us develop meaningful internal reporting and carbon reduction plans over time.
Importantly, the project also highlighted boundary measurement issues within the Greenhouse Gas Protocol which, until resolved, means that we do not plan to submit scope 3 emissions to CDP.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
