co. uk Notes continued 2 significant accounting policies continued Investments are assessed for possible impairment when there is an indication that the fair value of the investments may be below the Companys carrying value.
When such a condition is deemed to be other than temporary, the carrying value of the investment is written down to its fair value and the amount written off is included in profit or loss.
In making the determination as to whether a decline is other than temporary, the Company considers such factors as the duration and extent of the decline, the investees financial performance and the Companys ability and intention to retain its investment for a period that will be sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in the investments market value.
e Financial instruments Trade receivables are recognised at fair value less any impairment loss.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
Inter-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from inter-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Trade payables are recognised at fair value.
Trade payables are classied as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date.
f Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with original maturities of three months or less.
g Provisions A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably and it is probable that an outow of economic benets will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that reects current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specic to the liability.
The unwinding of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
A provision is maintained in respect of lease dilapidations based on an estimated cost to make good per square foot multiplied by the oor area of each premise.
h Employee benets i Pensions The Group provides access to a stakeholder pension scheme a dened contribution pension plan into which employees may elect to contribute via salary exchange.
Obligations for contributions to dened contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in profit or loss when they are due.
ii Employee share schemes The Group provides share-based incentive plans allowing executive directors and other selected senior management to acquire shares in the Company.
An expense is recognised in profit or loss, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period to which the employees become unconditionally entitled, on equity settled share-based incentive schemes granted after 7 November 2002 and which had not vested by 1 January 2005.
Fair value is measured using either the Monte Carlo or Black Scholes pricing model as is most appropriate for each scheme.
Measurement inputs include share price on measurement date, exercise price of the instrument, expected volatility based on weighted average historic volatility adjusted for changes expected due to publicly available information, weighted average expected life of the instruments based on historical experience and general option behaviour, expected dividends, and risk-free interest rates based on government bonds.
Service and non-market performance conditions attached to the awards are not taken into account in determining the fair value.
For share-based incentive awards with non-vesting conditions, the grant date fair value of the share-based incentives is measured to reect such conditions and there is no true-up for differences between expected and actual outcomes.
When either the employee or the Company chooses not to meet the non-vesting condition, the failure to meet the non-vesting condition is treated as a cancellation and the cost that would have been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
