co. uk Notes continued 2 significant accounting policies continued A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
In accordance with IAS 12, the Group policy in relation to the recognition of deferred tax on share-based incentives is to include the income tax effect of the tax deduction in profit or loss to the value of the income tax charge on the cumulative IFRS 2 charge.
The remainder of the income tax effect of the tax deduction is recognised in equity.
o Dividends Dividends unpaid at the reporting date are only recognised as a liability and deduction to equity at that date to the extent that they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
p Earnings per share The Group presents basic, diluted and underlying earnings per share EPS data for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for own shares held.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects of all potential dilutive instruments, which comprise share-based incentives granted to employees.
The calculation of underlying EPS is disclosed in Note 12. q Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations that has been disposed of, or is held for sale or distribution, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Classication as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classied as held for sale, if earlier.
When an operation is classied as a discontinued operation, the comparative statement of comprehensive income is restated as if the operation had been discontinued from the start of the comparative year.
3 IFRSs not yet applied A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2012 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
None of these are expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
4 Financial risk management Overview The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: U Vi` U ` U i U i This note presents information about the Group and Companys exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The primary method by which risks are monitored and managed by the Group is through the monthly Executive Management Board, where any significant new risks or change in status to existing risks will be discussed and actions taken as appropriate.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
58 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rightmove plc annual report 2012 4 Financial risk management continued The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups internal controls and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer fails to meet its contractual obligations.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is inuenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The Group provides credit to customers in the normal course of business.
The Group provides its services to a wide range of customers in the UK and overseas and therefore believes it has no material concentration of credit risk.
More than 94.0% of the Groups agency and new homes customers pay via monthly direct debit, minimising the risk of non-payment.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables based on individually identied loss exposures.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulties in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash.
The Group and Companys approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Groups revenue model is largely subscription-based, which results in a regular level of cash conversion allowing it to service working capital requirements.
The Group and Company ensure that they have sufficient cash on demand to meet expected operational expenses excluding the potential impact of extreme circumstances that cannot reasonably be predicted, such as natural disasters.
Throughout the year, the Group typically had sufficient cash on demand to meet operational expenses on continuing operations, before nancing activities, for a period of 256 days 2011: 342 days.
The Group entered into a 12 month agreement with Barclays Bank Plc for a 10,000,000 uncommitted money market loan on 6 February 2013.
To date no amount has been drawn under this facility.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices such as foreign exchange and interest rates will affect the Groups income.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
i Currency risk All of the Groups sales and more than 95.0% of the Groups purchases are Sterling denominated, accordingly it has no significant currency risk.
ii Interest rate risk The Group and Company have no interest bearing financial liabilities.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on cash balances and amounts held in Escrow.
Operational risk Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss arising from a wide variety of causes associated with the Groups processes, personnel, technology and infrastructure, and from external factors other than credit, market and liquidity risks, such as those arising from legal and regulatory requirements and generally accepted standards of corporate behaviour.
Operational risks arise from all of the Groups operations.
The Groups objective is to manage operational risk so as to balance the avoidance of financial losses and damage to the Groups reputation with overall cost effectiveness and to avoid control procedures that restrict initiative and creativity.
