co. uk Notes continued 2 significant accounting policies continued A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
In accordance with IAS 12, the Group policy in relation to the recognition of deferred tax on share-based incentives is to include the income tax effect of the tax deduction in profit or loss to the value of the income tax charge on the cumulative IFRS 2 charge.
The remainder of the income tax effect of the tax deduction is recognised in equity.
o Dividends Dividends unpaid at the reporting date are only recognised as a liability and deduction to equity at that date to the extent that they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
p Earnings per share The Group presents basic, diluted and underlying earnings per share EPS data for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for own shares held.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects of all potential dilutive instruments, which comprise share-based incentives granted to employees.
The calculation of underlying EPS is disclosed in Note 12. q Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations that has been disposed of, or is held for sale or distribution, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Classication as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classied as held for sale, if earlier.
When an operation is classied as a discontinued operation, the comparative statement of comprehensive income is restated as if the operation had been discontinued from the start of the comparative year.
3 IFRSs not yet applied A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2012 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
None of these are expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
4 Financial risk management Overview The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: U Vi` U ` U i U i This note presents information about the Group and Companys exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The primary method by which risks are monitored and managed by the Group is through the monthly Executive Management Board, where any significant new risks or change in status to existing risks will be discussed and actions taken as appropriate.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
