co. uk Notes continued 1 General information continued Capital structure The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 14 November 2007 under the Companies Act 1985 as a private company limited by shares with the name Rightmove Group Limited, registered no.
The Company was re-registered as a public limited company under the name Rightmove Group plc on 29 November 2007.
On 28 January 2008 the Company became the holding company of Rightmove Group Limited formerly Rightmove plc, Company no.
3997679 and its subsidiaries pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement under s425 of the Companies Act 1985.
The shares in the Company were admitted to trading on the Ofcial List of the London Stock Exchange on 28 January 2008 and the Company immediately changed its name to Rightmove plc.
Details of the share capital of the Company are disclosed in Note 23.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Judgements and estimates The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with Adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods, if applicable.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements is included in the following notes: Note 22 Deferred tax assets relating to the rate at which the asset will reverse and the recoverability of the asset Note 25 Measur ement of share-based payments relating to the inputs to the fair value models and the estimate of the number of shares that will eventually be issued 2 significant accounting policies a Investments Investments in subsidiaries are held at cost less any provision for impairment in the parent Company financial statements.
b Intangible assets i Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill that arises upon the acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identiable assets acquired.
In respect of acquisitions prior to this date, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount previously recorded under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP.
The classication and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 were not reconsidered in preparing the Groups opening IFRS statement of financial position at 1 January 2004.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
This applies to all goodwill arising both before and after 1 January 2004.
