Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rightmove plc annual report 2012 2 significant accounting policies continued ii Research and development The Group undertakes research and development expenditure in view of developing new products and improving the existing property websites.
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of a new product or substantially enhanced website, is capitalised if the new product or the enhanced website is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
The expenditure capitalised includes subcontractors and direct labour.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the economic benets embodied in the specic asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed when incurred.
iii Computer software and licences Computer software and externally acquired software licences are capitalised and stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged from the date the asset is available for use.
Amortisation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of the computer software or licence by equal annual instalments over its estimated useful economic life as follows: Computer software 20.0% 33.3% per annum Software licences 20.0% 33.3% per annum c Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of property, plant and equipment by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Ofce equipment, xtures & ttings 20.0% per annum Computer equipment 20.0% 33.3% per annum Leasehold improvements remaining life of the lease d Impairment The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of non-financial assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash ows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation but are tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that they might be impaired.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
