Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rightmove plc annual report 2012 2 significant accounting policies continued iii Own shares held by The Rightmove Employees Share Trust EBT The EBT is treated as an agent of Rightmove Group Limited and as such EBT transactions are treated as being those of Rightmove Group Limited and are therefore reected in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
In particular, at a consolidated level, the EBTs purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
iv National Insurance NI on share-based incentives Employers NI is accrued, where applicable, at a rate of 13.8%, which management expects to be the prevailing rate when share-based incentives are exercised.
In the case of share options, it is provided on the difference between the share price at the reporting date and the average exercise price of share options.
In the case of performance shares and deferred shares at nil cost, it is provided based on the share price at the reporting date.
i Treasury shares and shares purchased for cancellation When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares are either held in treasury or cancelled.
j Revenue Revenue principally represents the amounts, excluding value added tax VAT, receivable from customers in respect of properties advertised on Group websites.
All revenue is recognised in the month to which it relates.
Agency and overseas branches are billed in advance with net revenue deferred until the service commencement date.
The VAT liability is recognised at the point of invoice.
New homes developers are typically billed monthly in arrears.
Where invoices are raised on other than a monthly basis, the amounts are recognised as deferred or accrued revenue and released to the income statement on a monthly basis in line with the provision of services as stipulated in the contract terms.
k Segmental reporting An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
An operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the Groups Chief Executive officer to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance and for which discrete financial information is available.
l Leases Operating lease rentals are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Where cash is received in exchange for entering into a lease with rates above market value, this upfront payment is deferred and released on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
m Financial income and expenses Financial income comprises interest receivable on cash balances, deposits and dividend income.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised on the date that the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Financial expenses comprise debt issue costs and bank charges and the unwinding of the discount on provisions.
n Taxation Income tax on the results for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period net of any charge or credit posted directly to equity, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the reporting date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is provided in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination and the differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted by the reporting date.
