Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rightmove plc annual report 2012 Notes forming part of the financial statements 1 General information Rightmove plc the Company is a company registered in England Company no.
6426485 domiciled in the United Kingdom UK.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 31 December 2012 comprise the Company and its interest in its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
Its principal business is the operation of the rightmove.
co. uk website, which has the largest audience of any UK property website.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group as at and for the year ended 31 December 2012 are available upon request to the Company Secretary from the Companys registered ofce at Turnberry House, 30 Caldecotte Lake Drive, Caldecotte, Milton Keynes, MK7 8LE or are available on the investor relations website at www.
Statement of compliance The Group and Company financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Board of directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRSs and issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 1 March 2013.
Basis of preparation On publishing the Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
On 21 June 2010 the Group disposed of its 66.7% shareholding in Holiday Lettings Holdings Limited HLHL, which owned 100% of the shares in the trading entity Holiday Lettings Limited HLL, together referred to as the Holiday Lettings segment to TripAdvisor Limited.
The Holiday Lettings segment has been treated as a discontinued operation in the comparative year.
The accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied to both periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
The financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis.
Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies applied by the Group in these consolidated financial statements are in accordance with Adopted IFRSs and are the same as those applied by the Group in its consolidated financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2011.
There are no new standards or amendments to standards that are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2012 that have an impact on the Group or Company financial statements.
Going concern Throughout 2012, the Group was debt free, has continued to generate significant cash and has net cash balances of 7,082,000 at 31 December 2012 2011: 21,768,000.
The Group entered into a 12 month agreement with Barclays Bank Plc for a 10,000,000 uncommitted money market loan on 6 February 2013.
To date no amount has been drawn under this facility.
After making enquiries, the Board of directors has a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources and banking facilities to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Board of directors continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.
Further information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business and Financial Review on pages 6 to 15.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Position on pages 11 to 15.
In addition Note 4 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
