Notes to the 2012 financial statements 1 Principal accounting policies Corporate information The financial statements of the Group were authorised for issue in accordance with a directors resolution on 6 March 2013.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are listed and incorporated respectively on Stock Exchanges in the United Kingdom and Australia.
Rio Tinto plcs registered office is at 2 Eastbourne Terrace, London W2 6LG, United Kingdom.
Rio Tinto Limiteds registered office is at 120 Collins Street, Melbourne, Australia, 3000.
Rio Tintos business is finding, mining and processing mineral resources.
Major products are iron ore, aluminium, copper, diamonds, coal, uranium, gold and industrial minerals borax, titanium dioxide and salt.
Activities span the world but are strongly represented in Australia and North America with significant businesses in South America, Asia, Europe and Africa.
Basis of preparation The basis of preparation and the accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 are set out below.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU EU IFRS and with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IFRS and interpretations issued from time to time by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC and adopted by the EU that are mandatory for the year ended 31 December 2012, the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law, applicable Australian law as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 22 December 2010 as amended on 17 February 2012 and Article 4 of the European Union IAS regulation.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis page 126.
The EU IFRS financial information has been drawn up on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2011, except for the following: Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets.
This amends required disclosures to help users of financial statements evaluate the risk exposures relating to transfers of financial assets and the effect of those risks on an entitys financial position.
The amendment relates to disclosure only and has no impact on Group earnings or shareholders funds in the current or prior year.
The Group has not applied the following pronouncements which are not mandatory for 2012: Mandatory for 2013 Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements Presentation of items of other comprehensive income.
IAS 28 revised 2011, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
IFRS 10 and 11 are mandatory for 2013 under IFRS but 2014 under EU IFRS.
Early adoption is permitted under EU IFRS and the Group expects to early adopt.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities.
Annual improvements 2011 IFRIC 20, Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine.
Mandatory for 2014 and endorsed by the EU Amendments to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Mandatory for 2015 and not yet endorsed by the EU IFRS 9, Financial instruments In relation to those pronouncements which are mandatory for 2013: The amendment to IAS 19 only allows the expected return on assets to assume returns in line with the discount rate applied to the calculation of the pension liability whereas the current standard allows a higher assumed rate based on the assets actually held.
The Group expects the annual pre-tax pension expense to be permanently higher under the revised standard by some US$100 to US$200 million, with the precise amount depending on the value of assets in the pension plans and the asset classes in which they are invested.
The higher expense will be matched by lower actuarial gains and losses and there is therefore no impact on the statement of financial position.
IFRS 10 replaces the guidance on control and consolidation in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, and SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities: it provides a revised definition of control and establishes that as the basis for determining which entities are consolidated in the financial statements.
All entities within the Group have been reviewed to assess the impact of IFRS 10: there have not been any material reclassifications to or from controlled entities.
IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
The classification and subsequent accounting for joint arrangements now depends on whether parties that share joint control of an arrangement have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangement, in which case it is a Joint Operation, or rights to the net assets of the arrangement, in which case it is a Joint Venture.
For Joint Operations the Group will account for its share of the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to its interest in the Joint Operation in accordance with applicable IFRSs.
Joint Ventures will be accounted for using the equity accounting method.
146 146 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements All arrangements within the Group have been reviewed to assess the impact of IFRS 11.
It has been concluded that certain of the Groups operations including Queensland Alumina Limited, New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited, and Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. that were previously equity accounted will now be accounted for as Joint Operations.
As a result the Group will no longer recognise Investments in equity accounted units or Share of profit loss after tax of equity accounted units for these arrangements, but will instead consolidate its share of their assets and liabilities including its share of any assets held and liabilities incurred jointly, revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation, its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation and its expenses including its share of any expenses incurred jointly on a line by line basis.
The Group understands that practice is still developing in relation to the specific facts and circumstances which apply to some of the Groups other operations and is therefore currently considering the impact of adoption of IFRS 11 on these operations.
IFRS 13 is prospective in application.
It establishes a single source of guidance for all fair value measurements.
The standard provides guidance on how to measure fair value when fair value is required or permitted under other standards.
It does not change when an entity is required to use fair value.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 13 but, based on preliminary analysis, it is not expected to be material.
IFRIC 20 specifies the accounting for post-production stripping costs.
As explained in note h below the Group currently defers stripping costs incurred during the production stage of its operations, for those operations where this is the most appropriate basis for matching the costs against the related economic benefits and the effect is material.
At 1 January 2011, which will be the earliest period presented in the Groups 2013 financial statements, the net book value carried forward in property, plant and equipment and in investments in jointly controlled entities and associates was US$1.3 billion pre tax.
Under the interpretation this balance can only be carried forward if it can be identified with a remaining component of the orebody.
The Group is currently finalising its analysis but expects that approximately US$0.7 billion of that balance will be written off at 1 January 2011 approximately US$0.4 billion net of taxation and non-controlling interests.
The impact on 2011 and 2012 is not currently expected to exceed US$0.2 billion net of tax and noncontrolling interests.
The other standards which are mandatory for 2013 either relate to disclosure only or are not expected to be material to the Groups earnings or shareholders funds.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of those pronouncements which are mandatory beyond 2013.
Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty Many of the amounts included in the financial statements involve the use of judgment and or estimation.
These judgments and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to previous experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about such judgments and estimation is contained in the accounting policies and or the Notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: Merger accounting for the 1995 merger of the economic interests of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited into the dual listed companies DLC structure see Dual listed companies structure : Review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals and the recoverability of goodwill note 1 e and i, note 6 and note 12: Estimation of asset lives note 1 e and i : Determination of ore reserve estimates note 1 j : Close down restoration and clean up obligations note 1 k : Deferral of stripping costs note 1 h : Recognition of deferred tax on mining rights recognised in acquisitions note 1 m : Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 19 d and f : Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs note 1 f : Identification of functional currencies note 1 d : Basis of consolidation note 1 b Acquisitions: and Post retirement cost assumptions note 1 n. Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are: Review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals and the recoverability of goodwill note 1 e and i, note 6 and note 12: Estimation of close down restoration and clean-up costs and the timing of expenditure note 1 k and note 27: Estimation of liabilities for post retirement costs note 46: Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 19 d and f : Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs note 1 f : and Contingencies note 32.
These areas of judgment and estimation are discussed further in critical accounting policies and estimates on page 156. a Accounting convention The financial information included in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012, and for the related comparative periods, has been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain derivative contracts, financial assets and the accounting for post retirement assets and liabilities.
The Groups policy in respect of these items is set out in the notes below.
com 147 147 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued b Basis of consolidation The financial statements consist of the consolidation of the accounts of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited together the Companies and their respective subsidiaries together the Group together with the Groups share of joint ventures and associates accounted for as described below.
All intragroup transactions and balances have been eliminated on consolidation.
Subsidiaries: Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Companies.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of those entities in order to obtain benefits from their activities.
Control is presumed to exist where the Companies own more than one half of the voting rights which is not always the same as more than 50 per cent ownership unless it can be demonstrated that this does not constitute control.
Control does not exist where other parties hold veto rights over significant operating and financial decisions of an entity or where the Companies have the power to govern an entity but cannot obtain benefit from its activities.
Control does exist where another party or parties own more than one half of the voting rights of an entity but the Group can control those voting rights either through a contractual arrangement or through board control.
Joint ventures: A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control such that significant operating and financial decisions require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
In some situations, joint control exists even though the Group has an ownership interest of more than 50 per cent because of the veto rights held by joint venture partners.
The Group has two types of joint venture: Jointly controlled entities JCEs : A JCE is a joint venture that involves the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other entity in which each venturer has a long term interest.
JCEs are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
Jointly controlled assets JCAs : JCAs do not involve the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other entity.
A JCA is a joint venture in which the venturers have joint control over the assets contributed to or acquired for the purposes of the joint venture.
This includes situations where the participants benefit from the joint activity through a share of the production, rather than by receiving a share of the results of trading.
The Groups proportionate interest in the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of JCAs are incorporated into the Groups financial statements under the appropriate headings.
Associates: An associate is an entity that is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture, over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant influence is presumed to exist where the Group has between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting rights, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that this is not the case.
Significant influence can also arise where the Group holds less than 20 per cent if it has the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions affecting the entity.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method of accounting the investment is recorded initially at cost to the Group, including any goodwill on acquisition.
In subsequent periods the carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to reflect the Groups share of the associates retained post-acquisition profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
The Group uses the term Equity accounted units to refer to associates and JCEs collectively.
For all equity accounted units the carrying value will include any long term debt interests that in substance form part of the Groups net investment.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the assets, liabilities and results of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
Acquisitions The acquisition method of accounting is used for acquisitions.
This means that the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed the identifiable net assets on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition which is the date on which control is obtained.
Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Costs related to the acquisition of a subsidiary are expensed as incurred.
On an acquisition by acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets or at fair value.
Where required by accounting standards non-controlling interests are treated as equity options and valued on that basis.
Goodwill see note e and amounts attributable to non-controlling interests will differ depending on the basis used.
Where the Group has a previously held non-controlling interest in the acquiree, this is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date with any gain or loss being recognised in the income statement.
The cash cost of such a purchase is included in Investing activities in the cash flow statement.
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between the purchase price and the relevant carrying value of the share of net assets acquired is recorded in equity.
The cash cost of such purchases is included in Financing activities in the cash flow statement.
The results of businesses acquired during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control, joint control or significant influence commences.
Disposals Individual non-current assets or disposal groups i. e. groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of, by sale or otherwise in a single transaction, are classified as held for sale if the following criteria are met at the period end: the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use, and the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for such sales, and the sale is highly probable.
Disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Comparative statement of financial position information is not restated.
Disposal groups acquired with a view to resale are held at fair value determined at the acquisition date.
For these assets acquired for resale no profits or losses are recognised between the acquisition date and the disposal date, unless there is a subsequent impairment.
148 148 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer depreciated.
The results of businesses disposed of are taken out of the financial statements from the date on which control, joint control or significant influence ceases.
The cash proceeds of such disposals are included in Investing activities in the cash flow statement.
At this point any interest in the entity retained by the Group is remeasured to its fair value and the change in carrying amount is recognised in the income statement.
This fair value is the initial carrying amount for any retained interest which may be subsequently accounted for as an associate, joint venture or financial asset depending on the facts.
Any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of the entity disposed of, or for which control, joint control or significant influence has ceased, are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests where control is retained are recorded in equity.
The cash proceeds of such disposals are included in Financing activities in the cash flow statement.
c Sales revenue Sales revenue comprises sales to third parties at invoiced amounts.
Most sales are priced ex works, free on board fob or cost, insurance and freight cif.
Amounts billed to customers in respect of shipping and handling are classified as sales revenue where the Group is responsible for carriage, insurance and freight.
All shipping and handling costs incurred by the Group are recognised as operating costs.
If the Group is acting solely as an agent, amounts billed to customers are offset against the relevant costs.
Revenue from services is recognised as services are rendered and accepted by the customer.
Sales revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
Mining royalties are presented as an operating cost or, where they are in substance a profit based tax, within taxes.
Revenues from the sale of significant by-products such as gold are included in sales revenue.
Sundry revenue incidental to the main revenue generating activities of the operations and which is a consequence of producing and selling the main products is treated as a credit to operating costs.
Third party commodity swap arrangements for delivery and receipt of smelter grade alumina are offset within operating costs.
Sales revenue is only recognised on individual sales when all of the following criteria are met: the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer: neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold, has been retained: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group: and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
These conditions are generally satisfied when title passes to the customer.
In most instances sales revenue is recognised when the product is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is typically the vessel on which it will be shipped, the destination port or the customers premises.
The majority of the Groups products are sold to customers under contracts, which vary in tenure and pricing mechanisms, with some volumes sold in the spot market.
Certain of the Groups products, such as iron ore, were previously sold under long term contracts at an annual benchmark price.
Since 2010 pricing for all iron ore customers has changed to a quarterly basis reflecting the structural shift away from annual benchmark pricing.
A proportion of iron ore volumes continued to be sold on the spot market in 2012.
Substantially all iron ore sales are reflected at final prices in the results for the period, based on the best available information at the period end.
Sales revenue is commonly subject to adjustment based on an inspection of the product by the customer.
In such cases, sales revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of contained metal, and adjusted subsequently.
Certain products are provisionally priced, i. e. the selling price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a period normally ranging from 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer.
The final price is based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
As is customary in the industry, revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based on estimates of the fair value of the consideration receivable based on relevant forward market prices.
At each reporting date provisionally priced metal is marked to market based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract.
For this purpose, the selling price can be measured reliably for those products, such as copper, for which there exists an active and freely traded commodity market such as the London Metals Exchange and the value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is traded on that market.
The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is recorded as an adjustment to sales revenue.
Information on provisionally priced sales contracts is included in note 31. d Currency translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for JCEs and associates, is the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates.
For many entities, this is the currency of the country in which they are located.
Transactions denominated in other currencies are converted to the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
The accounting for hedged transactions is discussed in note p below.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at year end exchange rates.
The Groups accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting are explained in more detail in note 1 p iii.
The Groups financial statements are presented in US dollars, as that currency most reliably reflects the global business performance of the Group as a whole.
On consolidation, income statement items for each entity are translated from the functional currency into US dollars at average rates of exchange where the average approximates the rate at the date of transactions.
Statement of financial position items are translated into US dollars at year end exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net assets of entities with functional currencies other than the US dollar are recognised directly in the foreign currency translation reserve.
These translation differences are shown in the statement of comprehensive income with the exception of translation adjustments relating to Rio Tinto Limiteds share capital which are shown in the Group statement of changes in equity.
com 149 149 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Where an intragroup balance is, in substance, part of the Groups net investment in an entity, exchange gains and losses on that balance are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve.
Except as noted above, or in note p below relating to derivative contracts, all other exchange differences are charged or credited to the income statement in the year in which they arise.
e Goodwill and intangible assets excluding exploration and evaluation expenditure Where the fair value of consideration paid for a business combination exceeds the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
When the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the cost of consideration, the difference is immediately recognised in the income statement.
In 1997 and previous years, goodwill was eliminated against reserves in the year of acquisition as a matter of accounting policy, as was then permitted under UK GAAP.
Such goodwill was not reinstated under subsequent UK accounting standards or on transition to IFRS.
Goodwill is not amortised: it is tested annually for impairment.
Investments in equity accounted units EAUs including any goodwill are tested for impairment as a single asset when a trigger for impairment has been identified.
The Groups impairment policy is explained in note 1 i.
Purchased intangible assets are initially recorded at cost.
Finite life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Intangible assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use are not amortised: they are reviewed annually for impairment in accordance with accounting policy note 1 i.
The Group considers that intangible assets have indefinite lives when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group.
The factors considered in making this determination include the existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms: or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can be expected for indefinite future periods in view of the Groups investment intentions.
The life cycles of the products and processes that depend on the asset are also considered.
f Exploration and evaluation Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprises costs that are directly attributable to: researching and analysing existing exploration data: conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling: examining and testing extraction and treatment methods: and or compiling pre-feasibility and feasibility studies.
Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits with economic potential.
Evaluation expenditure arises from a detailed assessment of deposits or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential.
Expenditure on exploration activity is not capitalised.
Capitalisation of evaluation expenditure commences when there is a high degree of confidence in the projects viability and therefore it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
The carrying values of capitalised evaluation expenditure are reviewed for impairment twice a year by management.
In the case of undeveloped mining projects projects for which the decision to mine has not yet been approved at the appropriate authorisation level within the Group which have arisen through acquisition, there may be only inferred resources to form a basis for that review.
The review is based on a status report summarising the Groups intentions for development.
In some cases, the undeveloped projects are regarded as successors to orebodies, smelters or refineries currently in production.
Where this is the case, it is intended that these will be developed and go into production when the current source of ore is exhausted or to replace the reduced output which results when existing smelters and or refineries are closed.
It is often the case that technological and other improvements will allow successor smelters and or refineries to more than replace the capacity of their predecessors.
g Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, as defined in IAS 16, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes the estimated close down and restoration costs associated with the asset.
Once an undeveloped mining project has been established as commercially viable, expenditure other than that on land, buildings, plant and equipment is capitalised under Mining properties and leases together with any amount transferred from Exploration and evaluation.
Commercial viability is deemed to be achieved when the Group is confident that the project will provide a satisfactory return relative to its perceived risks and is likely to go ahead.
Costs of an undeveloped smelter or refinery project are capitalised under Capital works in progress provided that the project is deemed to be commercially viable and likely to go ahead.
In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste materials to access ore from which minerals can be extracted economically.
The process of mining overburden and waste materials is referred to as stripping.
During the development of a mine or pit, before production commences, stripping costs are capitalised as part of the investment in construction of the mine or pit and are subsequently amortised over the life of the mine or pit on a units of production basis.
Costs which are necessarily incurred whilst commissioning new assets, in the period before they are capable of operating in the manner intended by management, are capitalised.
Development costs incurred after the commencement of production are capitalised to the extent they are expected to give rise to a future economic benefit.
Interest on borrowings related to construction or development projects is capitalised until the point when substantially all the activities that are necessary to make the asset ready for its intended use are complete.
h Deferred stripping Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate operations for the purpose of mine planning, stripping costs are accounted for separately by reference to the ore from each separate pit.
If, however, the pits are highly integrated for the purpose of mine planning, the second and subsequent pits are regarded as extensions of the first pit in accounting for stripping costs.
In such cases, the initial stripping i. e. overburden and other waste removal of the second and subsequent pits is considered to be production phase stripping relating to the combined operation.
The Groups determination of whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations depends on each mines specific circumstances.
The following factors would point towards the stripping costs for the individual pits being accounted for separately: 150 150 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements If mining of the second and subsequent pits is conducted consecutively with that of the first pit, rather than concurrently.
If separate investment decisions are made to develop each pit, rather than a single investment decision being made at the outset.
If the pits are operated as separate units in terms of mine planning and the sequencing of overburden removal and ore mining, rather than as an integrated unit.
If expenditures for additional infrastructure to support the second and subsequent pits are relatively large.
If the pits extract ore from separate and distinct orebodies, rather than from a single orebody.
If the designs of the second and subsequent pits are significantly influenced by opportunities to optimise output from the several pits combined, including the co-treatment or blending of the output from the pits then this would point to treatment as an integrated operation in accounting for stripping costs.
The relative importance of each of the above factors is considered in each case to determine whether, on balance, the stripping costs should be attributed to the individual pit or to the combined output from several pits.
The Group defers stripping costs incurred during the production stage of its operations where this is the most appropriate basis for matching the costs against the related economic benefits and the effect is material.
This is generally the case where there are fluctuations in stripping costs over the life of the mine or pit.
The amount of stripping costs deferred is based on the ratio Ratio obtained by dividing the tonnage of waste mined either by the quantity of ore mined or by the quantity of minerals contained in the ore.
In some operations, the quantity of ore is a more practical basis for matching costs with the related economic benefits where there are important co-products or where the grade of the ore is relatively stable from year to year.
Stripping costs incurred in the period are deferred to the extent that the current period Ratio exceeds the life of mine or pit Ratio.
Such deferred costs are then charged against reported profits to the extent that, in subsequent periods, the current period Ratio falls short of the life of mine or pit Ratio.
The life of mine or pit Ratio is based on proved and probable reserves of the mine or pit : it is a function of the mine or pit design s and therefore changes to that design will generally result in changes to the Ratio.
Changes in other technical or economic parameters that impact on reserves will also have an impact on the life of mine or pit Ratio even if they do not affect the mine or pit design s. Changes to the life of mine or pit Ratio are accounted for prospectively.
In the production stage of some mines or pits, further development of the mine or pit requires a phase of unusually high stripping activity that is similar in nature to pre-production mine development.
The costs of this unusually high level of stripping activity are deferred and charged against reported profits on a units of production basis in subsequent periods.
This accounting treatment is consistent with that for pre-production mine development.
Deferred stripping costs are included in Mining properties and leases within property, plant and equipment or within Investments in equity accounted units, as appropriate.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs is included in net operating costs or in the Groups share of the results of its equity accounted units, as appropriate.
i Depreciation and impairment Depreciation of non-current assets Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if that is shorter and there is no alternative use for the asset.
The useful lives of the major assets of a cash-generating unit are often dependent on the life of the orebody to which they relate.
Where this is the case, the lives of mining properties, and their associated refineries, concentrators and other long lived processing equipment generally relate to the expected life of the orebody.
The life of the orebody, in turn, is estimated on the basis of the life-of-mine plan.
Where the major assets of a cash-generating unit are not dependent on the life of a related orebody, management applies judgment in estimating the remaining service potential of long lived assets.
In the case of smelters, factors affecting the remaining service potential include smelter technology and electricity purchase contracts when the power is not sourced from the companys or certain local governments own electricity generating capacity.
Depreciation commences when an asset is available for use.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a units of production and or straight line basis as follows: Units of production basis For mining properties and leases and certain mining equipment, the consumption of the economic benefits of the asset is linked to the production level.
Except as noted below, these assets are depreciated on a units of production basis.
In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally calculated using the quantity of material extracted from the mine in the period as a percentage of the total quantity of material to be extracted in current and future periods based on proved and probable reserves and, for some mines, other mineral resources.
These other mineral resources may be included in depreciation calculations in limited circumstances and where there is a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction.
Straight line basis Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a straight line basis.
Development costs that relate to a discrete section of an orebody, and which only provide benefit over the life of those reserves, are depreciated over the estimated life of that discrete section.
Development costs incurred which benefit the entire orebody are depreciated over the estimated life of the orebody.
Impairment of non-current assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment if there is an indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
All goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use or have an indefinite life are tested annually for impairment regardless of whether there has been any change in events or circumstances.
Impairment is assessed at the level of cash-generating units which, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, are identified as the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows, which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets.
com 151 151 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued In some cases, the business units within product groups consist of several operations with independent cash generating streams, which constitute separate cash-generating units.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to the cash-generating unit, or groups of cash-generating units if that is the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, that is expected to benefit from the related business combination.
When an impairment review is undertaken, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use being the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant cash-generating unit in its current condition and fair value less costs to sell FVLCS.
The best evidence of FVLCS is the value obtained from an active market or binding sale agreement.
Where neither exists, FVLCS is based on the best information available to reflect the amount the Group could receive for the cash generating unit in an arms length transaction.
This is often estimated using discounted cash flow techniques.
Where recoverable amount is assessed using FVLCS based on discounted cash flow techniques, the resulting estimates are based on detailed life of mine and or production plans.
For value in use, recent cost levels are considered, together with expected changes in costs that are compatible with the current condition of the business and which meet the requirements of IAS 36.
The cash flow forecasts for FVLCS purposes are based on managements best estimates of expected future revenues and costs, including the future cash costs of production, capital expenditure, closure, restoration and environmental clean-up.
For the purposes of determining FVLCS from a market participants perspective, the cash flows incorporate managements price and cost assumptions in the short and medium term.
In the longer term, operating margins are assumed to remain constant where appropriate, as it is considered unlikely that a market participant would prepare detailed forecasts over a longer term period.
The cash flow forecasts may include net cash flows expected to be realised from extraction, processing and sale of mineral resources that do not currently qualify for inclusion in proved or probable ore reserves.
Such non-reserve material is only included where there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction.
This expectation is usually based on preliminary drilling and sampling of areas of mineralisation that are contiguous with existing reserves.
Typically, the additional evaluation to achieve reserve status for such material has not yet been done because this would involve incurring costs earlier than is required for the efficient planning and operation of the mine.
As noted above, cost levels incorporated in the cash flow forecasts for fair value purposes are based on the current life-of-mine plan or long term production plan for the cash-generating unit.
Because future cash flows are estimates for the asset in its current condition, value in use does not reflect future cash flows associated with improving or enhancing an assets performance.
Anticipated enhancements to assets may be included in FVLCS calculations.
Where the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is dependent on the life of its associated orebody, expected future cash flows reflect long term mine plans, which are based on detailed research, analysis and iterative modelling to optimise the level of return from investment, output and sequence of extraction.
The mine plan takes account of all relevant characteristics of the orebody, including waste to ore ratios, ore grades, haul distances, chemical and metallurgical properties of the ore impacting on process recoveries and capacities of processing equipment that can be used.
The life-of-mine plan is therefore the basis for forecasting production output and production costs in each future year.
Forecast cash flows for ore reserve estimation for Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC purposes are generally based on Rio Tintos price forecasts of commodity prices, which assume short term market prices will revert to the Groups assessment of the long term price, generally over a period of three to five years.
For most commodities, these forecast commodity prices are derived from a combination of analyses of the marginal costs of the producers and of the incentive price of these commodities.
These assessments often differ from current price levels and are updated periodically.
For the long run, the Group does not believe that forward prices quoted in the metals markets provide a good indication of future price levels since forward prices tend to be strongly influenced by spot price levels.
Rio Tintos price forecasts of commodity prices include an element of carbon pricing.
These price forecasts are also used for impairment testing unless management deems that in certain economic environments, a market participant would not assign Rio Tintos view on prices, in which case management base them upon assumptions which a market participant would be expected to use under these economic conditions.
In some cases, prices applying to some part of the future sales volumes of a cash-generating unit are predetermined by existing sales contracts.
The effects of such contracts are taken into account in forecasting future cash flows.
The discount rates applied to the future cash flow forecasts represent an estimate of the rate the market would apply having regard to the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
The Groups weighted average cost of capital is used as a starting point for determining the discount rates, with appropriate adjustments for the risk profile of the countries in which the individual cash-generating units operate.
For final feasibility studies and ore reserve estimation, internal hurdle rates are used which are generally higher than the weighted average cost of capital.
For operations with a functional currency other than the US dollar, the impairment review is undertaken in the relevant functional currency.
The great majority of the Groups sales are based on prices denominated in US dollars.
To the extent that the currencies of countries in which the Group produces commodities strengthen against the US dollar without commodity price offset, cash flows and, therefore, net present values are reduced.
Management considers that over the long term, there is a tendency for movements in commodity prices to compensate to some extent for movements in the value of the US dollar and vice versa.
However, such compensating changes are not synchronised and do not fully offset each other.
In estimating fair value, a forecast of the long term exchange rates, for the Australian and Canadian dollars, is made having regard to spot exchange rates, historical data and external forecasts, and is linked to price assumptions.
IAS 36 requires that value in use be based on exchange rates current at the time of the assessment.
Non-current assets other than goodwill that have suffered an impairment are tested for possible reversal of the impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the impairment may have reversed.
152 152 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements j Determination of ore reserve estimates The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the JORC code.
Reserves and, for certain mines, other mineral resources determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, the assessment of life of mine stripping ratios and for forecasting the timing of the payment of close down and restoration costs and clean-up costs.
In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree of confidence of economic extraction.
k Close down, restoration and clean-up obligations The Group has provisions for close down and restoration costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure and the removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas for the mines and certain refineries and smelters.
Close down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining or production, and the majority of close down and restoration expenditure is incurred at the end of the life of the mine, refinery or smelter.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their costs based on feasibility and engineering studies using current restoration standards and techniques.
Close down and restoration costs are provided for in the accounting period when the obligation arising from the related disturbance occurs, based on the net present value of estimated future costs with, where appropriate, probability weighting for the different remediation or closure outcomes which could realistically arise.
This may occur during development or during the production phase of a facility.
Provisions for close down and restoration costs do not include any additional obligations which are expected to arise from future disturbance.
The costs are estimated on the basis of a closure plan, and are updated annually during the life of the operation to reflect known developments, e. g. revisions to cost estimates and to the estimated lives of operations.
The estimates are subject to formal review at regular intervals.
The initial closure provision is capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
Subsequent movements in these closure provisions, including those resulting from new disturbance, updated cost estimates, changes to the estimated lives of operations and revisions to discount rates are also capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
These costs are then depreciated over the lives of the assets to which they relate.
The amortisation or unwinding of the discount applied in establishing the net present value of provisions is charged to the income statement in each accounting period.
The amortisation of the discount is shown as a financing cost.
Where rehabilitation is conducted systematically over the life of the operation, rather than at the time of closure, provision is made for the estimated outstanding continuous rehabilitation work at each statement of financial position date and the cost is charged to the income statement.
Clean-up costs result from environmental damage that was not a necessary consequence of operations, and may include remediation, compensation and penalties.
Provision is made for the estimated present value of such costs at the statement of financial position date.
These costs are charged to the income statement.
Movements in these clean up provisions are presented as an operating cost, except for the unwinding of the discount which is shown as a financing cost.
Remediation procedures may commence soon after the time the disturbance, remediation process and estimated remediation costs become known, but can continue for many years depending on the nature of the disturbance and the remediation techniques used.
l Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, primarily on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs are calculated by reference to the cost levels experienced in the relevant month together with those in opening inventory.
Cost for raw materials and stores is the purchase price and for partly processed and saleable products is generally the cost of production.
For this purpose the costs of production include: labour costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore and the production of alumina and aluminium: the depreciation of mining properties and leases and of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore and the production of alumina and aluminium: and production overheads.
Work in progress inventory includes ore stockpiles and other partly processed material.
Stockpiles represent ore that has been extracted and is available for further processing.
If there is significant uncertainty as to when the stockpiled ore will be processed, the ore is expensed as mined.
Where the future processing of this ore can be predicted with confidence, e. g. because it exceeds the mines cut off grade, it is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
If the ore will not be processed within the 12 months after the statement of financial position date it is included within non-current assets and net realisable value is calculated on a discounted cash flow basis.
Quantities of stockpiled ore are assessed primarily through surveys and assays.
m Taxation Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income for the year calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
It includes adjustments for tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining rights that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
Provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its income tax base which may be nil.
Even where there is no income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes is not taken into account in determining the deferred tax provision for the mining rights because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily through use of the rights and not from disposal.
Also, the Group is only entitled to a deduction for capital gains tax purposes if the mining rights are sold or formally relinquished.
com 153 153 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued n Post employment benefits For defined benefit post employment plans, the difference between the fair value of the plan assets if any and the present value of the plan liabilities is recognised as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position.
Any asset recognised is restricted, if appropriate, to the present value of any amounts the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses comprise both the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments arising because of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in the income statement, including the current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any curtailment or settlements.
The interest cost less the expected return on assets is also charged to the income statement.
All of the amounts charged to the income statement in respect of these plans are included within operating costs or in the Groups share of the results of equity accounted units as appropriate.
The most significant assumptions used in accounting for pension plans are the long term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate and the mortality assumptions.
The long term rate of return on plan assets is used to calculate the expected return on pension assets, which is credited to the Groups income statement.
The discount rate is used to determine the net present value of future liabilities.
The discount rate used is the yield on high quality corporate bonds with maturity and terms that match those of the post employment obligations as closely as possible.
Where there is no developed corporate bond market in a country, the rate on government bonds is used.
Each year, the unwinding of the discount on those liabilities is charged to the Groups income statement as the interest cost.
The mortality assumption is used to project the future stream of benefit payments, which is then discounted to arrive at a net present value of liabilities.
Valuations of liabilities are carried out using the projected unit method which values benefits accrued at the valuation date with allowance where appropriate for future increases to pay and pensions.
The long term rate of return on pension plan assets is determined as managements best estimate of the long term return on the major asset classes, i. e. equity, debt, property and other, weighted by the actual allocation of assets among the categories at the measurement date.
The expected rate of return is calculated using geometric averaging.
The values attributed to plan liabilities and the long term rate of return are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
o Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the statement of financial position, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call with banks and short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are net of bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand which are shown as current liabilities on the statement of financial position.
p Financial instruments i Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, available-for-sale and held to maturity investments.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
The Groups policy with regard to financial risk management is set out in note 31.
Generally, the Group does not acquire financial assets for the purpose of selling in the short term.
When the Group enters into derivative contracts these transactions are designed to reduce exposures related to assets and liabilities, firm commitments or anticipated transactions.
Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives are included within financial assets at fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified based on their maturity.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables comprise non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, with the exception of items for which the Group may not recover substantially all of its investment for reasons other than credit deterioration, which are classified as available-for-sale.
Trade receivables are included within this category: however, trade receivables subject to provisional pricing are valued as explained in note 1 c Sales revenue.
c Held to maturity Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that the Group has the intention and ability to hold to maturity.
d Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated as available-for-sale or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the statement of financial position date or the asset matures within less than twelve months.
ii Financial liabilities Borrowings and other financial liabilities including trade payables but excluding derivative liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred and are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the amounts originally received for borrowings and other financial liabilities net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period to maturity using the effective interest method.
154 154 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements iii Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivatives are initially recognised at their fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
They are subsequently re-measured subject to IAS 39 at their fair value at each statement of financial position date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether or not the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or of firm commitments fair value hedges or hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges.
Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability or firm commitment that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Where derivatives are held with different counterparties or with the same counterparty and management has no intention to settle the derivatives and the underlying asset or liability or firm commitment, on a net basis, the fair values of the derivative assets and liabilities and the hedged asset or liability or firm commitment are shown separately in the statement of financial position as there is no legal right of offset.
When a fair value interest rate hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a fair value interest rate hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the fair value adjustments which have been made to the hedged item are amortised through the income statement over the remaining life of the hedged item or written off immediately where the hedged item is derecognised.
Cash flow hedges: The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss, for example when the forecast sale that is being hedged takes place.
When the forecast transaction that is being hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and adjust the cost of the asset.
The gains and losses are recognised subsequently in the income statement when the non-financial asset is amortised or sold.
When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a cash flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, although the forecasted transaction is still expected to occur, any cumulative gain or loss relating to the instrument which is held in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting: Any derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market at the statement of financial position date.
Embedded derivatives: Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to their host contracts.
In some cases, the embedded derivatives may be designated as hedges and will be accounted for as described above.
iv Fair value Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties.
Where relevant market prices are available, these have been used to determine fair values.
In other cases, fair values have been calculated using quotations from independent financial institutions, or by using valuation techniques consistent with general market practice applicable to the instrument.
a The fair values of cash, short term borrowings and loans to joint ventures and associates approximate to their carrying values, as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest.
b The fair values of medium and long term borrowings are calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows using quoted prices in active markets or an appropriate market based yield curve.
The carrying value of the borrowings is amortised cost.
c Derivative financial assets and liabilities are carried at fair value based on quoted prices in an active market where available.
Where no price information is available from a quoted market source, fair value is estimated based on the Groups views on relevant future prices using modelling techniques.
The fair values of the various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 31.
Movements on the hedging reserve are disclosed within note 30.
The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, an evaluation is made as to whether a decline in fair value is significant or prolonged based on an analysis of indicators such as significant adverse changes in the technological, market, economic or legal environment in which the company invested in operates.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
q Share based payments The fair value of cash-settled share plans is recognised as a liability over the vesting period of the awards.
Movements in that liability between accounting dates are recognised as an expense.
The grant date fair value of the awards is determined from the market value of the shares at the date of award and adjusted for any market based vesting conditions attached to the award e. g. relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance.
Fair values are subsequently re-measured at the date of the statement of financial position to reflect the market value of shares at the measurement date and, where relevant, the number of awards expected to vest based on the current and anticipated TSR performance.
If any awards are ultimately settled in shares, the liability is transferred directly to equity as part of the consideration for the equity instruments issued.
The Groups equity-settled share plans are settled either by the issue of shares by the relevant parent company, by the purchase of shares on market or by the use of shares previously acquired as part of a share buyback.
The fair value of the share plans is recognised as an expense over the expected vesting period with a corresponding entry to retained earnings for Rio Tinto plc plans and to other reserves for Rio Tinto Limited plans.
If the cost of shares acquired to satisfy the plans exceeds the expense charged, the excess is taken to retained earnings or other reserves as appropriate.
The fair value of the share plans is determined at the date of grant, taking into account any market based vesting conditions attached to the award e. g. TSR.
The Group uses fair values provided by independent actuaries calculated using a lattice based option valuation model.
com 155 155 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Non-market based vesting conditions e. g. earnings per share targets are taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each statement of financial position date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued.
No adjustment is made after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
The terms of each plan are considered at the statement of financial position date.
If a cash-settled plan changes to become equity-settled then the accumulated liability is transferred directly to equity at the date of change.
Further information about the treatment of individual share based payment plans is provided in note 45. r Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Groups equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
Critical accounting policies and estimates i Dual listed company reporting As explained in detail in the Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements, the consolidated financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group deal with the results, assets and liabilities of both of the dual listed companies, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, and their subsidiaries.
In other words, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are viewed as a single parent company with their respective shareholders being the shareholders in that single company.
The 2012 Annual report satisfies the obligations of Rio Tinto Limited to prepare consolidated accounts under Australian company law, as amended by an order issued by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission on 22 December 2010 as amended on 17 February 2012.
The 2012 financial statements disclose the effect of the adjustments to the Groups consolidated profit, consolidated total comprehensive income and consolidated shareholders funds as prepared under EU IFRS that would be required under the version of IFRS that is applicable in Australia, referred to as Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
The US dollar is the presentation currency used in these financial statements, as it most reliably reflects the Groups global business performance.
ii Impairment review of asset carrying values Events or changes in circumstances can give rise to significant impairment charges or reversals of impairment in a particular year.
Where the recoverable amounts of the Groups cash generating units are assessed by analyses of discounted cash flows, the resulting valuations are particularly sensitive to changes in estimates of long term commodity prices including any carbon element, exchange rates, operating costs and discount rates.
Note 12 outlines the significant judgments and assumptions made in performing impairment testing of non-current assets.
iii Estimation of asset lives and determination of ore reserve estimates Intangible assets are considered to have indefinite lives when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group.
The factors considered in making this determination include the existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms: or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can be expected for indefinite periods into the future in view of the Groups investment intentions.
Rio Tinto estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance with the Australasian code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the JORC code.
The amounts presented under EU IFRS and AAS are based on the reserves, and in some cases mineral resources, determined under the JORC code.
The estimation of ore reserves requires judgment to interpret available geological data and then to select an appropriate mining method and establish an extraction schedule.
It also requires assumptions about future commodity prices, exchange rates, production costs, recovery rates and discount rates and, in some instances, the renewal of mining licences.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
New geological data as well as changes in the above assumptions may change the economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated.
Such changes in reserves could impact on depreciation and amortisation rates, asset carrying values, deferred stripping calculations and provisions for close down and restoration costs.
iv Close down, restoration and clean-up obligations Provision is made for environmental remediation costs when the related environmental disturbance occurs, based on the net present value of estimated future costs with, where appropriate, probability weighting for the different remediation or closure outcomes which could realistically arise.
The ultimate cost of environmental disturbance is uncertain and management uses its judgment and experience to provide for these costs over the life of the operations.
Cost estimates can vary in response to many factors including changes to the relevant legal or local national government ownership requirements, the Groups environmental policies, the emergence of new restoration techniques, the timing of the expenditures and the effects of inflation.
Experience gained at other mine or production sites is also a significant consideration.
Cost estimates are updated throughout the life of the operation.
The accuracy range for operations with a remaining life of more than ten but less than 40 years is plus or minus 30 per cent.
For operations with a remaining life of more than five but less than ten years the range is 20 per cent.
Operations must produce a full decommissioning plan five years prior to the estimated date of closure.
The accuracy range of the full decommissioning plan is plus or minus 15 per cent.
156 156 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements The expected timing of expenditure included in cost estimates can also change, for example in response to changes in ore reserves, production rates, operating licence or economic conditions.
Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for an extended period of time depending on the specific site requirements.
Some expenditure can continue into perpetuity.
Cash flows must be discounted if this has a material effect.
The selection of appropriate sources on which to base calculation of the risk free discount rate used for this purpose also requires judgment.
As a result of all of the above factors there could be significant adjustments to the provision for close down, restoration and clean-up costs which would affect future financial results.
v Deferral of stripping costs Stripping of waste materials takes place throughout the production stage of the mine or pit.
Some mining companies expense these production stage stripping costs as incurred, while others defer such stripping costs.
In operations that experience material fluctuations in the ratio of waste materials to ore or contained minerals on a year to year basis over the life of the mine or pit, deferral of stripping costs reduces the volatility of the cost of stripping expensed in individual reporting periods.
Those mining companies that expense stripping costs as incurred will therefore report greater volatility in the results of their operations from period to period.
The life of mine or pit waste-to-ore ratio is a function of an individual mines pit design and therefore changes to that design will generally result in changes to the ratio.
Changes in other technical or economic parameters that impact on reserves will also have an impact on the life of mine or pit ratio even if they do not affect the pit design.
Changes to the life of mine or pit ratio are accounted for prospectively.
The Groups determination of whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations depends on each mines specific circumstances and the analysis requires judgment: another company could make the determination that a mine is separate or integrated differently than the Group, even if the fact pattern appears to be similar.
To the extent the determination is different: the resulting accounting would also be different.
During 2012, production stage stripping costs capitalised by subsidiaries and equity accounted operations were US$411 million and the amounts charged against pre-tax profit was US$67 million 2011: production stage costs exceeded the amount charged against pre-tax profit by US$257 million: 2010: production stage costs exceeded the amount charged against pre-tax profit by US$123 million.
There was US$11 million impairment net of reversals of deferred stripping costs in both 2012 and 2011.
In 2010, there was no impairment of deferred stripping costs.
The net book value of stripping costs in property, plant and equipment and in investments in equity accounted units at 31 December 2012 was US$1.9 billion 2011: US$1.6 billion: 2010: US$1.3 billion.
Information about the stripping ratios of the business units, including equity accounted units, that account for the majority of the deferred stripping costs at 31 December 2012, along with the year in which the deferred stripping costs are expected to be fully amortised, is set out in the following table: Actual stripping ratio for year Life of mine stripping ratio 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 a b Kennecott Utah Copper 2029 3.31 2.09 2.09 2.07 1.94 1.48 a Grasberg Joint Venture 2016 2.21 3.52 4.15 2.24 2.54 3.13 c Diavik 2012 0.02 0.64 1.21 0.98 0.96 0.95 a d Escondida 2091 0.13 0.17 0.13 0.11 0.13 0.14 a Stripping ratios shown are waste to ore for KUC and Grasberg and waste to pounds of copper mined for Escondida.
b KUCs actual stripping ratio for 2012 increased over the prior year due to waste stripping associated with the Cornerstone pushback in the south wall of the Bingham Canyon mine.
c Diaviks stripping ratio is disclosed as bench cubic metre per carat.
The 2012 actual ratio has reduced because production is now from the bottom of the A418 pit requiring less movement of waste per carat.
A418 deferred stripping costs are fully amortised as at 31 December 2012. d Escondida is an equity accounted unit.
Rio Tinto Borax capitalised stripping costs during the production stage of the mine as part of a distinct period of new development which was completed in 2004.
The capitalised costs will be fully amortised in 2042.
As noted in the Basis of preparation, IFRIC 20 will change the accounting for post production stripping costs.
Implementation, which is mandatory in 2013, is expected to result in a write off to retained earnings of some US$0.4 billion at 1 January 2011, which is the date of transition.
vi Recognition of deferred tax on mining rights recognised in acquisitions On transition to EU IFRS with effect from 1 January 2004, deferred tax was provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions in previous years.
No other adjustments were made to the assets and liabilities recognised in prior year acquisitions.
Accordingly, shareholders funds were reduced by US$720 million primarily as a result of deferred tax on fair value adjustments to mining rights.
For acquisitions after 1 January 2004, provision for deferred tax on acquisition results in a consequential increase in the amounts attributed to goodwill under EU IFRS.
Amounts attributed to goodwill for business combinations in 2011 and 2012 are shown in note 38. vii Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs and other costs prior to the decision to mine construct Under the Groups accounting policy, exploration expenditure is not capitalised.
Evaluation expenditure is capitalised when there is a high degree of confidence in the projects viability and it is therefore considered probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
A projects viability is determined based on whether it will provide a satisfactory return relative to the perceived risks of the project and coincides with the point at which construction of the project the decision to mine is approved at the appropriate authorisation level within the Group the Investment r riotint iotintoo.
com 157 157 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Committee: and the Board where appropriate.
In determining whether to approve a project, the Investment Committee reviews the ore reserves estimate together with analyses regarding the net present value of the project and sensitivity analyses around key assumptions.
There are occasions when the Group concludes that the asset recognition criteria are met at an earlier stage than approval to construct mine.
In these cases, evaluation expenditure is capitalised if there is a high degree of confidence in the projects viability.
The Groups view is that a high degree of confidence is greater than more likely than not that is greater than 50 per cent and less than virtually certain that is less than 90 per cent certainty.
Determining whether there is a high degree of confidence in an evaluation projects viability requires a significant degree of judgment and assessment of all relevant factors such as the nature and objective of the project: the projects current stage: project timeline: current estimates of the projects net present value including sensitivity analyses around key assumptions: the main risks of the project.
Development expenditure incurred prior to the decision to construct mine is subject to the same criteria for capitalisation, being a high degree of confidence in a projects viability.
In accordance with IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources, the criteria for the capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs is applied consistently from period to period.
Subsequent recovery of the resulting carrying value depends on successful development or sale of the undeveloped project.
If a project does not prove viable, all irrecoverable costs associated with the project net of any related impairment provisions are written off.
viii Identification of functional currencies The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for equity accounted units, is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Determination of functional currency involves significant judgment and other mining companies may make different judgments based on similar facts.
For many of Rio Tintos entities, their functional currency is the currency of the country in which they operate.
The Group reconsiders the functional currency of its entities if there is a change in the underlying transactions, events and conditions which determine their primary economic environment.
The determination of functional currency affects the carrying value of non-current assets included in the statement of financial position and, as a consequence, the amortisation of those assets included in the income statement.
It also impacts exchange gains and losses included in the income statement and in equity.
The majority of the ex-Alcan businesses acquired by the Group in 2007 changed from US functional currency to local functional currency for accounting purposes on 1 January 2011.
The integration of the ex-Alcan businesses with the existing aluminium business of Rio Tinto changed the economic environment for these ex-Alcan businesses since acquisition in several ways.
In particular, the divestment of the majority of the ex-Alcan downstream operations, the legal reorganisations that transferred ownership of certain ex-Alcan companies within the Rio Tinto group and the centralisation of certain functions such as procurement, pensions and shipping brought their business model closer to that for the rest of Rio Tintos operations, the majority of which have the local currency as their functional currency.
In addition, whilst financing is only a secondary indicator of functional currency, the magnitude of US dollar denominated debt, which had been largely repaid by 1 January 2011, was a factor in the original determination of US functional currency at acquisition.
ix Estimation of liabilities for post retirement costs The value of the Groups liabilities for post-retirement benefits will ultimately depend upon the amount of benefits paid out.
This in turn will depend upon the future pay increases received by members of final pay plans, the level of inflation for those benefits that are subject to some form of inflation protection, the number of individuals and how long individuals live in retirement.
Most of the Groups defined benefit pension plans are closed to new entrants and most of the liabilities relate to former employees.
As a consequence, the carrying value of the Groups post-retirement liabilities is less sensitive to the assumption about future salary increases than it is to the assumption regarding future inflation.
The assumption regarding future inflation is derived using market yields on inflation-linked instruments where possible, combined with consensus views on future inflation.
This assumption is derived using the same process at each reporting date.
Changes to the assumption therefore reflect changes to the market and consensus views of future inflation.
The Group reviews the actual mortality rates of retirees in its major pension plans on a regular basis and uses these rates to set its current mortality assumptions.
It also allows for future improvements in mortality having regard to standard improvement scales in each country.
The discount rate used to value post-retirement liabilities is set in accordance with IAS 19 Post retirement benefits based upon the yields on high quality corporate bonds in the relevant currency and of a duration consistent with the nature of the liabilities.
The discount rate will vary from one period to another in line with movements in corporate bond yields, but at any given measurement date there is relatively little estimation uncertainty.
Details of the key assumptions, how they have moved since the previous statement of financial position date and the sensitivity of the carrying value to changes in the assumptions, are set out in note 46.
For 2012 the charge against income for post retirement benefits net of tax and non-controlling interests was US$535 million.
This charge included both pension and post retirement healthcare benefits.
The charge is net of the expected return on assets which was US$481 million after tax and non-controlling interests.
The average future increase in compensation levels was assumed to be 3.4 per cent in 2012 and will be 3.4 per cent for 2013.
The average discount rate used was 4.3 per cent in 2012 and will be 3.9 per cent in 2013 reflecting the net impact of changes in corporate bond yields in the regions where the Group has pension obligations.
The weighted average expected long term rate of return on assets used to determine the 2012 pension cost was 5.0 per cent.
Starting in 2013, the expected rate of return on assets will no longer be used to determine pensions cost, as it is replaced by interest income on assets, calculated using the discount rate, in accordance with the revisions to IAS 19.
Based on the known changes in assumptions noted above and other expected circumstances, and in the absence of the revisions to IAS 19 and IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, which are effective on 1 January 2013, the expected impact of post retirement costs on the Groups EU IFRS net earnings in 2013 would be US$4 million less than in 2012.
The actual charge will be impacted by the revisions to IAS19 and IFRS11 and other factors that cannot be predicted, such as the effect of changes in benefits, number of employees and exchange rates.
The revisions to IAS 19 do not have a material impact on the Groups statement of financial position.
158 158 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements The table below sets out the potential change in the Groups 2012 net earnings after tax and non-controlling interests that would result from hypothetical changes to post retirement assumptions and estimates.
The sensitivities are viewed for each assumption in isolation although a change in one assumption is likely to result in some offset elsewhere.
The figures in the table only show the impact on underlying and net earnings.
Changing the assumptions would also have an impact on the statement of financial position.
US$ million Sensitivity of Groups 2012 underlying and net earnings to changes in: Expected return on assets increase of 1 percentage point 94 decrease of 1 percentage point 94 Discount rate increase of 0.5 percentage points 1 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 4 Inflation increase of 0.5 percentage points 33 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 31 Salary increases increase of 0.5 percentage points 8 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 7 Demographic allowance for additional future mortality improvements participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year older 19 participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year younger 19 x Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets The Group has tax losses, and other deductible temporary differences, mainly in UK, French, Canadian, US and Australian taxable entities that have the potential to reduce tax payments in future years.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised to the extent that their recovery is probable, having regard to the projected future taxable profits of these taxable entities and after taking account of specific risk factors that affect the recovery of these assets.
The possible tax assets i. e. the amounts that would be recognised if there were no need to assess recoverability on losses and other temporary differences in these taxable entities, are shown in the table below and totalled US$18,512 million at 31 December 2012 2011: US$3,834 million.
Of these possible tax assets, US$3,358 million have been recognised as deferred tax assets 2011: US$1,875 million, leaving US$15,154 million 2011: US$1,959 million unrecognised, as recovery is not considered probable.
The recognised amounts do not include deferred tax assets that have been offset against recognised deferred tax liabilities.
This is a change in presentation for 2012 and comparatives have been restated accordingly.
In previous years, with the exception of capital losses, tax losses have been shown at their full value before offsetting deferred tax liabilities.
b The unrecognised amount includes temporary differences that are deductible for the purposes of Mineral Resources Rent Tax MRRT.
xi Contingencies Disclosure is made of material contingent liabilities unless the possibility of any loss arising is considered remote.
Contingencies are disclosed in note 32. xii Basis of consolidation In determining whether the Group has control, joint control or significant influence over an entity, the Group considers whether other parties hold veto rights over significant operating and financial policies.
In some instances, the Group has control of an entity where other parties own more than one half, or in some cases all, of the voting rights of an entity but the Group can control those voting rights through a contractual arrangement.
In such circumstances, the Group considers, in particular, whether it obtains benefits, including non-financial benefits, from its power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity.
In some cases, the Group makes acquisitions over a period of days, weeks or months.
It is a matter of judgment as to whether the payments made during this period form part of one transaction or a number of separate transactions.
In the latter case, the transactions will be treated as an acquisition in stages.
The effect on the financial statements of treatment as an acquisition in stages is that any excess of consideration over identifiable net assets for transactions after control has been gained will be recorded as a reduction in equity.
If the transactions were treated as one acquisition then all such excess consideration would be treated as goodwill.
In addition, acquisitions of shares after the date on which control is gained and which are accounted for in stages are shown within Financing activities in the cash flow statement rather than in Investing activities.
Factors which are considered in this judgment are the length of time between the acquisition date and completion of the transaction and whether, at the time of the initial share purchase, it was clear what percentage ownership would ultimately be obtained.
com 159 159 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 2 Operating segments b b Restated Restated 2012 2011 2010 a Gross sales revenue US$m US$m US$m 24,279 29,475 23,582 Iron Ore Aluminium 10,105 12,159 11,313 Copper 6,661 7,634 7,797 5,783 7,003 5,446 Energy 4,056 3,654 3,477 Diamonds & Minerals 6,730 8,246 10,151 Other operations 57,614 68,171 61,766 Reportable segments total 2,048 2,817 2,758 Inter-segment transactions 55,566 65,354 59,008 Product Group Total Items excluded from Underlying earnings 31 56 Gross sales revenue 55,597 65,298 59,008 Share of equity accounted units and adjustments for intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales 4,630 4,761 3,837 Consolidated sales revenue per income statement 50,967 60,537 55,171 c Depreciation and amortisation 1,488 1,169 960 Iron Ore 1,093 1,098 1,062 Aluminium 634 538 568 Copper 769 520 367 Energy 444 371 301 Diamonds & Minerals 403 535 587 Other operations Reportable segments total 4,831 4,231 3,845 Other items 111 113 114 Less: depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units 501 527 522 Depreciation and amortisation per note 4 4,441 3,817 3,437 d Underlying earnings Iron Ore 9,242 13,267 10,313 3 442 611 Aluminium 1,092 1,932 2,530 Copper 283 1,074 1,187 Energy 119 162 204 Diamonds & Minerals 528 120 237 Other operations Reportable segments total 10,211 16,433 15,082 Inter-segment transactions 8 40 15 Other items 698 593 554 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 97 102 52 Net finance costs 105 229 474 9,303 15,549 13,987 Underlying earnings e Items excluded from Underlying earnings 12,293 9,723 251 2,990 5,826 14,238 Net loss earnings attributable to owners of Rio Tinto per income statement Tax charge 4,271 5,939 4,602 Iron Ore 154 64 36 Aluminium 32 626 705 Copper 11 496 537 Energy Diamonds & Minerals 68 29 39 Other operations 266 11 136 Reportable segments total 3,876 7,165 5,705 Other items 244 370 216 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 26 28 1 Net finance costs 78 140 152 3,528 6,627 5,338 e 3,099 188 42 Tax credit excluded from Underlying earnings 429 6,439 5,296 Tax charge per income statement 160 160 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements b b Restated Restated 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Capital expenditure Iron Ore 7,149 4,004 1,702 Aluminium 2,550 1,957 963 Copper 4,347 3,784 990 Energy 1,819 1,327 685 Diamonds & Minerals 1,785 1,392 314 Other Operations 637 729 570 Reportable segments total 18,287 13,193 5,224 Other items 159 251 75 Less: capital expenditure of equity accounted units 1,028 1,146 746 Capital expenditure per Financial information by business units 17,418 12,298 4,553 Add: Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 40 37 38 Capital expenditure per statement of cash flow 17,458 12,335 4,591 Rio Tintos management structure is based on the principal product groups shown above together with the global functions that support the business.
The chief executive of each product group reports to the chief executive of Rio Tinto.
The chief executive of Rio Tinto monitors the performance of each product group based on a number of measures including capital expenditure and operating cash flows, with Underlying earnings being the key financial performance indicator.
Finance costs and net debt are managed on a group basis.
Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on their primary product.
The Energy product group includes both coal and uranium businesses.
The Diamonds & Minerals product group includes businesses with products such as borates, salt and titanium dioxide feedstock together with diamond operations and the Simandou iron ore project, which is the responsibility of the Diamonds & Minerals product group chief executive.
The Copper group includes certain gold operations in addition to copper.
The financial information by business unit provided on page 219 of these financial statements provide additional voluntary disclosure which the Group considers is useful to the users of the financial statements.
a Gross sales revenue Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries of US$5,068 million 2011: US$5,240 million, 2010: US$4,048 million in addition to consolidated sales revenue.
Consolidated sales revenue includes subsidiary sales of US$438 million 2011: US$479 million, 2010: US$210 million to equity accounted units which are not included in gross sales revenue.
Intersegment transactions relate to sales between the Aluminium Product Group and Constellium formerly Alcan Engineered Products and Other Aluminum operations whose results are reported within Other operations.
b Restatements Dampier Salt and the Simandou iron ore project were transferred from the Iron Ore product group to the Diamonds & Minerals product group following changes to the Groups management structure, and accordingly information for 2011 and 2010 has been reclassified.
Comparatives for gross revenue for 2011 and 2010 have been restated 2011: US$324 million, 2010: US$206 million to exclude amounts relating to product sold by the Group to an equity accounted unit and subsequently sold to third parties.
The amount was correctly included within consolidated sales revenue which remain unchanged.
c Depreciation and amortisation Product group depreciation and amortisation totals include 100 per cent of subsidiaries depreciation and amortisation and include Rio Tintos share of the depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units.
Rio Tintos share of the depreciation and amortisation charge of equity accounted units is deducted to arrive at depreciation and amortisation excluding equity accounted units as shown in note 4.
These figures exclude impairment charges, which are excluded from Underlying earnings.
com 161 161 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 2 Operating segments continued d Underlying earnings Underlying earnings is reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations and to enhance comparability of reporting periods.
The measure of Underlying earnings is used by the chief executive of Rio Tinto to assess the performance of the product groups.
Underlying earnings and Net earnings both represent amounts attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders.
The following items are excluded from Net earnings in arriving at Underlying earnings each period irrespective of materiality: Profits less losses on acquisitions disposal of interests in businesses.
Profit loss after tax from discontinued operations.
Exchange and derivative gains and losses.
This exclusion includes Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances, gains and losses on currency interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting and gains losses on commodity derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting.
In addition, there is a final judgemental category which includes, where applicable, other credits and charges that, individually, or in aggregate if of a similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
Product group earnings include earnings of subsidiaries and equity accounted units stated before finance items but after the amortisation of discount.
Rio Tintos share of the Underlying earnings of equity accounted units amount to US$1,008 million in 2012 2011: US$834 million: 2010: US$1,202 million.
This amount is attributable as follows: US$778 million profit to the Copper group and US$230 million profit to other product groups 2011: US$660 million profit attributable to the Copper product group and US$174 million profit to other product groups: 2010: US$1,016 million profit attributable to the Copper product group and US$186 million profit to other product groups.
These amounts are included in Underlying earnings of the relevant product groups and include the Underlying earnings of the Groups tolling entities which process bauxite and alumina.
Tolling entities recharge the majority of their costs and generally have minimal earnings.
The Energy product groups Underlying earnings in 2012 included US$258 million profit after tax in relation to the divestments of equity interest in Extract Resources and Kalahari Minerals.
2010 included US$229 million profit after tax in relation to the divestment of Maules Creek and Vickery coal projects.
The Diamonds & Minerals product groups Underlying earnings in 2009 included US$797 million profit after tax in relation to the divestment of undeveloped potash assets in Argentina and Canada.
e Reconciliation of net earnings to Underlying earnings Noncontrolling Discontinued Net Net Net j j Pre-tax Taxation interests operations amount amount amount 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2011 2010 Exclusions from Underlying earnings US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Impairment charges net of reversals note 6 16,410 2,028 22 14,360 9,290 739 Gains and losses on consolidation and disposal f of interests in businesses 845 18 827 167 619 Exchange and derivative gains losses : Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances 494 78 13 429 147 434 Gains losses on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting 103 8 37 58 19 56 Gains on commodity derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting 80 14 66 109 61 g Deferred tax asset write off 134 134 342 h MRRT 1,205 75 1,130 i Other exclusions 595 118 175 7 309 201 58 Total excluded from Underlying earnings 15,483 3,099 98 7 12,293 9,723 251 Net loss earnings 2,568 429 14 7 2,990 5,826 14,238 Underlying earnings 12,915 3,528 84 9,303 15,549 13,987 f Net gains arising on the consolidation and disposal of interests in businesses for the year ended 31 December 2012 relate principally to consolidation of Richards Bay Minerals RBM and Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. formerly Ivanhoe Mines Limited.
Gains arising on the disposal of interests in businesses for the year ended 31 December 2011 relate principally to the divestment of the Groups talc business.
Gains arising on the disposal of interests in businesses for the year ended 31 December 2010 relate principally to the sale of the Groups 48 per cent interest in Cloud Peak Energy Inc. g Deferred tax assets were written off as a result of restrictions on the utilisation of French losses introduced in 2011 and to eliminate the increase in deferred tax assets following the impairment of French aluminium assets in 2012. h A deferred tax asset was recognised following the introduction of the Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT on 1 July 2012. i In the period following consolidation of RBM, adjustments were made in respect of inventory on hand at the acquisition date which had been recognised at fair value on consolidation.
These adjustments, which include amounts relating to inventory sold since 3 September 2012, totalled US$186 million net of tax and have been excluded from Underlying earnings.
Other charges excluded from Underlying earnings in 2012 comprise costs relating to acquisitions, potential divestments and similar corporate projects.
j Exclusions from Underlying earnings relating to both equity accounted units EAUs and discontinued operations are stated after tax.
Exclusions from Underlying earnings relating to EAUs are included in the column Pre-tax.
Net loss earnings relating to EAUs are included in the column Pre-tax and the results of discontinued operations are shown in the column Discontinued operations.
162 162 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 3 Operating segments additional information b Restated Restated 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 a Gross sales revenue by destination % % % US$m US$m US$m China 32.3 30.9 28.1 17,948 20,149 16,568 Japan 15.8 16.3 15.8 8,787 10,671 9,301 Other Asia 15.2 15.8 14.4 8,464 10,322 8,523 United States of America 12.7 13.8 15.2 7,085 9,019 8,975 Europe excluding United Kingdom 11.5 11.6 14.1 6,380 7,549 8,340 Canada 3.3 2.9 3.3 1,823 1,926 1,925 Australia 2.6 2.5 2.0 1,420 1,643 1,160 United Kingdom 1.2 1.4 2.3 678 922 1,334 Other 5.4 4.8 4.8 3,012 3,097 2,882 Gross sales revenue 100 100 100 55,597 65,298 59,008 Share of equity accounted units sales and intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales and items excluded from Underlying earnings 4,630 4,761 3,837 Consolidated sales revenue 50,967 60,537 55,171 a Gross sales revenue by geographical destination are based on the ultimate country of destination of the product, if known.
If the eventual destination of the product sold through traders is not known then revenue is allocated to the location of the product at the time when the risks and rewards of ownership are passed.
Rio Tinto is domiciled in both the United Kingdom and Australia.
b Comparatives for gross revenue have been restated 2011: US$324 million, 2010: US$206 million to exclude amounts relating to product sold by the Group to an equity accounted unit and subsequently sold to third parties.
c Restated Restated Gross sales revenue by product 2012 2011 2010 Gross sales revenues of the Group are derived from the following products sold to external customers: US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 24,756 29,867 23,834 Aluminium 12,535 14,327 12,721 Coal 5,060 6,026 5,154 Copper 4,749 5,144 5,716 Industrial Minerals 3,460 3,131 2,955 Gold 614 1,012 1,086 Diamonds 754 726 682 Other 3,669 5,065 6,860 Gross sales revenue 55,597 65,298 59,008 Share of equity accounted units sales and intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales 4,630 4,761 3,837 Consolidated sales revenue 50,967 60,537 55,171 c Gross sales revenues of the Group are derived from the above products sold to external customers.
com 163 163 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 3 Operating segments additional information continued Non-current assets other than excluded items The total of non-current assets other than items excluded is shown by location below.
This is allocated based on the location of the business units holding the assets.
2012 2011 d Non-current assets other than excluded items US$m US$m Australia 39,789 40,081 Canada 18,216 22,458 Mongolia 14,759 11,195 Africa 4,872 5,685 United States 5,443 5,012 South America 2,875 2,325 United Kingdom 1,016 894 France 590 1,095 Europe excluding France 505 1,000 Indonesia 884 770 Other countries 1,719 496 90,668 91,011 Non-current assets excluded from analysis above: Deferred tax assets 3,358 1,875 Tax recoverable 86 74 Derivatives and other financial assets 1,048 1,454 e Loans to equity accounted units 603 1,695 Accounts receivable 1,617 1,450 Total non-current assets per statement of financial position 97,380 97,559 d Non-current assets by location exclude financial instruments, deferred tax assets, post-employment benefit assets and accounts receivable.
Allocation is based on the location of the business units holding the assets, and includes investments in equity accounted units totalling US$4,726 million 2011: US$8,606 million which represents the Groups share of net assets excluding quasi equity loans shown separately within Loans to equity accounted units above.
e Loans to equity accounted units comprise quasi equity loans of US$586 million 2011: US$1,227 million included in Investments in equity accounted units on the face of the statement of financial position and nonquasi equity loans of US$17 million 2011: US$468 million shown within other financial assets.
4 Net operating costs 2012 2011 2010 Note US$m US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 9,597 10,975 12,004 Amortisation of intangible assets 13 300 314 369 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 4,141 3,503 3,068 Employment costs 5 8,464 6,908 6,406 Repairs and maintenance 2,919 2,533 1,946 Shipping costs 1,896 1,885 1,890 Other freight costs 1,179 959 838 Decrease increase in finished goods and work in progress 212 31 377 Royalties 2,374 2,790 2,104 a Amounts charged by jointly controlled entities 3,445 3,730 2,934 Net foreign exchange losses gains 3 84 4 Other external costs 3,112 2,901 3,304 Provisions including exchange differences on provisions 27 807 961 907 Research and development 129 148 187 Costs included above qualifying for capitalisation 534 836 140 Other operating income 508 396 174 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately 37,536 36,260 35,262 a Amounts charged by jointly controlled entities mainly relate to toll processing but also include purchases from jointly controlled entities of bauxite and aluminium which are then processed by the product group or sold to third parties.
Generally, purchases are in proportion to the Groups share of the jointly controlled entity but in 2012, US$690 million 2011: US$849 million: 2010: US$564 million related to purchases of the other venturers share of production.
Information on auditors remuneration is included in note 40.
164 164 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 5 Employment costs 2012 2011 2010 Note US$m US$m US$m Employment costs Wages and salaries 8,149 6,696 6,328 Social security costs 156 128 98 Net post retirement cost 46 746 604 573 Share option charge 45 239 156 124 9,290 7,584 7,123 Less: charged within provisions 826 676 717 Total employment costs 4 8,464 6,908 6,406 6 Impairment charges Noncontrolling Net Net Net Pre-tax Taxation interests amount amount amount 2012 2012 2012 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m a Aluminium 12,397 1,397 11,000 8,855 b Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique 3,269 409 2,860 c Diamonds 659 199 460 344 115 d Alcan Engineered Products 589 Other 85 23 22 40 91 35 Total 16,410 2,028 22 14,360 9,290 739 Comprising: e Impairment of consolidated balances 13,953 2,028 22 11,903 8,698 739 e Impairment of investments in equity accounted units 3,241 784 2,457 592 Total impairment in the Financial Information by e Business Unit page 220 17,194 2,812 22 14,360 9,290 739 Tax on impairment of investments in equity accounted units 784 784 Total impairment in the income statement 16,410 2,028 22 14,360 9,290 739 a The annual impairment review of the Groups Aluminium businesses resulted in an impairment of US$6,056 million to goodwill 2011: US$7,405 million, 2010: no impairment charge.
The review also resulted in a US$4,430 million pre-tax impairment of property, plant and equipment 2011: US$1,186 million, 2010: no impairment charge related to Rio Tinto Alcan and Other Aluminium operations, a US$1,310 million post-tax impairment of investments in equity accounted units 2011: US$579 million, 2010: no impairment charge relating to Rio Tinto Alcan and Other Aluminium operations, a US$407 million pre-tax impairment to intangible assets 2011 and 2010: no impairment charge, and a pre-tax adjustment of US$194 million to other assets and liabilities.
Details of the 2012 impairment review relating to the Groups aluminium businesses are set out in note 12. b The annual impairment review of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique resulted in an impairment of US$541 million to goodwill.
The review also resulted in a US$1,581 million pre-tax impairment to exploration and evaluation assets held within intangible assets and a US$1,147 million post-tax impairment of investments in equity accounted units.
Details of the 2012 impairment review relating to Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique are set out in note 12. c Of the net impairment to the Groups diamond business during 2012, 2011 and 2010, US$659 million pre-tax 2011: US$643 million pre-tax: 2010: US$381 million pre-tax relates to Argyle and was triggered by the announcement during the year of the Diamonds strategic review, as well as a change to the forecast ramp-up date for the underground project.
In 2012, the estimate of value in use was based on the policy in note 1 i.
In 2011 and 2010, recovery in prices resulted in a reversal of impairment relating to Diavik of US$176 million pre-tax and US$247 million pre-tax in 2011 and 2010 respectively.
d Impairment to the Alcan Engineered Product businesses arose following finalisation of the proceeds and terms of the proposed sales transaction, which affected the assessment of fair value less costs to sell.
The estimated proceeds were assessed in line with the policy in note 1 i. e In 2011, charges of US$9,290 million 2010:US$739 million are reduced by net credits for tax of US$476 million 2010: US$243 million and US$349 million 2010: nil relating to impairment of consolidated balances and investments in equity accounted units respectively.
com 165 165 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 7 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m a Sales revenue: Rio Tinto share 5,499 6,099 4,722 Operating costs 3,781 4,872 2,818 Profit before finance items and taxation 1,718 1,227 1,904 Finance items 103 54 87 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 47 38 21 Profit before taxation 1,662 1,211 1,838 Taxation 628 507 737 Profit for the year Rio Tinto share 1,034 704 1,101 a Sales revenue of equity accounted units excludes charges by equity accounted units to Group subsidiaries.
8 Finance income and finance costs 2012 2011 2010 Note US$m US$m US$m Finance income from equity accounted units 14 35 33 Other finance income including bank deposits and other financial assets 102 80 130 Total finance income 116 115 163 a Interest payable and similar charges 1,043 990 853 Charges related to refinancing 107 Amounts capitalised 14 767 493 182 Total finance costs 276 497 778 a Interest payable and similar charges relate to interest on bank loans and other borrowings.
This includes a fair value loss on interest rate swaps designated as hedges of US$25 million 2011: US$311 million gain: 2010: US$186 million loss and a fair value loss on bonds and notes attributable to interest rate risk of US$13 million 2011: US$308 million loss: 2010: US$196 million loss.
166 166 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 9 Taxation 2012 2011 2010 Note US$m US$m US$m Taxation charge Current 3,876 6,131 5,026 Deferred 19 3,447 308 270 429 6,439 5,296 2012 2011 2010 Prima facie tax reconciliation US$m US$m US$m Loss profit before taxation 2,568 13,214 20,491 Deduct: share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 1,034 704 1,101 a Add: impairment after tax of investments in equity accounted units 2,457 592 Parent companies and subsidiaries loss profit before tax 1,145 13,102 19,390 Prima facie tax payable at UK rate of 24% 2011: 26%: 2010: 28% 275 3,407 5,429 Higher rate of taxation on Australian earnings at 30% 845 759 295 Items excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings: Impairment charges 1,321 1,909 23 Gains on disposal of businesses and on newly consolidated operations 185 30 77 Foreign exchange on excluded finance items 50 15 32 b Impact of tax law changes on recognition of deferred tax assets 1,205 342 Other exclusions 157 91 13 Impact of changes in tax rates and laws 5 20 96 Other tax rates applicable outside the UK and Australia 71 112 110 Resource depletion and other depreciation allowances 121 182 163 Research, development and other investment allowances 57 78 74 Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 84 13 Unrecognised current year operating losses 202 272 95 Foreign exchange differences 3 63 Withholding taxes 6 27 35 Other items 49 40 140 c Total taxation charge 429 6,439 5,296 a Impairment of investments in equity accounted units is net of tax credits of US$784 million 2011: US$349 million.
b Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT is an additional tax on profits from the mining of iron ore and coal in Australia, which came into effect on 1 July 2012.
In computing MRRT liabilities, a deduction is given in respect of the market value of the mining assets as at 1 May 2010.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in 2012 on the temporary difference between the amount that is deductible for tax purposes and the carrying value of the assets in the accounts, to the extent that its recovery is probable.
This temporary difference will reverse over the life of the mines.
c This tax reconciliation relates to the Groups parent companies, subsidiaries and proportionally consolidated units.
The tax credit charge relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Total Total Total US$m US$m US$m Tax on exchange adjustments 1 13 27 Cash flow hedge fair value losses gains : Cash flow hedge fair value losses gains 26 24 24 Cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement 50 52 34 Losses gains on revaluation of available for sale securities 6 21 25 Gains on revaluation of available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 1 1 1 Currency translation reclassified 3 Actuarial losses on post retirement benefit plans 110 567 216 Deferred tax on share options 8 55 47 84 468 256 Share of tax on other comprehensive expense of equity accounted units 3 3 a Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income expense for the year 84 465 253 a This comprises deferred tax credits of US$81 million 2011: US$511 million: 2010: US$226 million and current tax credits of US$3 million 2011: charge of US$43 million 2010 credit of: US$30 million, plus share of tax on other comprehensive income of equity accounted units shown separately.
com 167 167 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 10 Loss earnings per ordinary share 2012 2011 Weighted Weighted average 2012 average 2011 2012 number of Per share 2011 number of Per share Earnings shares amount Earnings shares amount US$m millions cents US$m millions cents Basic loss earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto continuing operations 2,983 1,849.1 161.3 5,836 1,923.1 303.5 Basic loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto discontinued operations 7 1,849.1 0.4 10 1,923.1 0.5 a Total basic loss earnings per share profit for the year 2,990 1,849.1 161.7 5,826 1,923.1 303.0 Diluted loss earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto continuing operations 2,983 1,849.1 161.3 5,836 1,935.5 301.5 Diluted loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto discontinued operations 7 1,849.1 0.4 10 1,935.5 0.5 b Total diluted loss earnings per share profit for the year 2,990 1,849.1 161.7 5,826 1,935.5 301.0 2010 Weighted average 2010 2010 number of Per share Earnings shares amount US$m millions cents Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto continuing operations 14,335 1,961.0 731.0 Basic loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto discontinued operations 97 1,961.0 4.9 a Total basic earnings per share profit for the year 14,238 1,961.0 726.1 Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto continuing operations 14,335 1,972.6 726.7 Diluted loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto discontinued operations 97 1,972.6 4.9 Total diluted earnings per share profit for the year 14,238 1,972.6 721.8 a The weighted average number of shares is calculated as the average number of Rio Tinto plc shares outstanding not held as treasury shares of 1,413.4 million 2011: 1,487.3 million: 2010: 1,525.2 million plus the average number of Rio Tinto Limited shares outstanding of 435.8 million 2011: 435.8 million: 2010: 435.8 million.
No Rio Tinto Limited shares were held by Rio Tinto plc in any of the periods presented.
b In accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per share, the effects of anti-dilutive potential have not been included when calculating diluted loss per share for the year ended 31 December 2012.
For the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, the effect of dilutive securities of 12.4 million shares in 2011 2010: 11.6 million shares is added to the weighted average number of shares described in a above.
This effect is calculated under the treasury stock method.
The Groups only potential dilutive ordinary shares are share options for which terms and conditions are described in note 45.
168 168 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 11 Dividends 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Rio Tinto plc previous year final dividend paid 1,295 955 686 Rio Tinto plc Interim dividend paid 1,054 778 664 Rio Tinto Limited previous year final dividend paid 380 279 206 Rio Tinto Limited Interim dividend paid 309 224 198 Dividends paid during the year 3,038 2,236 1,754 Dividends per share: paid during the year 163.5c 117.0c 90.0c Dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year 94.5c 91.0c 63.0c Dividends Dividends Dividends per share per share per share 2012 2011 2010 Rio Tinto plc previous year final pence 57.33p 39.14p 28.84p Rio Tinto plc Interim pence 46.43p 33.14p 28.21p Rio Tinto Limited previous year final fully franked at 30% Australian cents 84.20c 61.94c 51.56c Rio Tinto Limited Interim fully franked at 30% Australian cents 68.51c 49.81c 49.27c Number Number Number of shares of shares of shares 2012 2011 2010 millions millions millions Rio Tinto plc previous year Final 1,416.7 1,522.6 1,524.8 Rio Tinto plc Interim 1,410.9 1,479.5 1,526.0 Rio Tinto Limited previous year Final 435.8 435.8 435.8 Rio Tinto Limited Interim 435.8 435.8 435.8 The dividends paid in 2012 are based on the following US cents per share amounts: 2011 final 91.0 cents, 2012 interim 72.5 cents 2011 dividends paid: 2010 final 63.0 cents, 2011 interim 54.0 cents: 2010 dividends paid: 2009 final 45.0 cents, 2010 interim 45.0 cents.
The number of shares on which Rio Tinto plc dividends are based excludes those held as treasury shares.
2012, 2011 and 2010, no Rio Tinto Limited shares were held by Rio Tinto plc.
In addition, the directors of Rio Tinto announced a final dividend of 94.5 cents per share on 14 February 2013.
This is expected to result in payments of US$1,745 million Rio Tinto plc: US$1,333 million, Rio Tinto Limited: US$412 million.
The dividends will be paid on 11 April 2013 to Rio Tinto plc shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 March 2013 and to Rio Tinto Limited shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 March 2013.
The proposed Rio Tinto Limited dividends will be franked out of existing franking credits or out of franking credits arising from the payment of income tax during 2013.
The approximate amount of the Rio Tinto Limited consolidated tax groups retained profits and reserves that could be distributed as dividends and franked out of credits, that arose from net payments of income tax in respect of periods up to 31 December 2012 after deducting franking credits expected to be utilised on the 2012 final dividend declared, is US$18,041 million.
com 169 169 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 12 Goodwill 2012 2011 US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 8,187 15,316 Adjustment on currency translation 207 404 Newly consolidated operations 977 680 Impairment charges 6,597 7,405 At 31 December 2,774 8,187 cost 23,033 22,125 accumulated impairment 20,259 13,938 At 1 January cost 22,125 21,906 accumulated impairment 13,938 6,590 At 31 December 2012, goodwill has been allocated as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Net book value Copper Oyu Tolgoi note 38 1,149 983 Richards Bay Minerals 806 Aluminium 5,864 Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique note 38 530 Other 819 810 2,774 8,187 Impairment tests for goodwill Post-tax discount rates In arriving at fair value less costs to sell for each operation, a base post-tax discount rate of 6.9 per cent 2011: 6.6 per cent has been applied to the post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms.
The base discount rate used has been increased by a premium of between one and four per cent for operations in countries with a higher risk profile and has been decreased by up to 0.5 per cent for assets relating to commodities with a lower risk profile.
Aluminium The annual impairment review of the Groups Aluminium businesses resulted in an impairment to the remaining goodwill relating to the former Alcan businesses of US$6,056 million 2011: US$7,405 million: 2010: no impairment charge.
The recoverable amount has been assessed by reference to fair value less costs to sell, using discounted cash flows, in line with the policy set out in note 1 i.
Fair value less costs to sell FVLCS was determined by estimating discounted cash flows until the end of the life of each site based on long-term production plans, including closure restoration and environmental clean-up costs.
Aluminium benefits from a global marketplace with substantial barriers to entry and there are a limited number of competitors who are able to access effectively the key resources necessary to make aluminium.
In addition, continued global industrialisation is expected to support demand for aluminium in the long term.
The industry has however been running with surpluses in production over the past several years.
Limited constraints on the ability of Chinese production to meet domestic demand and London Metal Exchange LME inventories at all time high levels have both had a negative impact on the price outlook.
The further deterioration in aluminium market conditions in the second half of 2012, together with strong currencies in certain regions and high raw material costs, has had a negative impact on the current market values of the aluminium industry.
A current market participants view of fair value might not include the full value of the Groups planned improvements in cash margins from existing operations and from the successful implementation of growth projects: however the Groups view is that a market participant would ascribe some value to these aspects of the business.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCS for the Aluminium businesses is most sensitive are the aluminium price: the Canadian dollar and Australian dollar exchange rates against the US dollar: operating costs: and discount rates.
Aluminium prices and operating costs have been estimated in line with the policy in note 1 i.
Key assumptions Aluminium prices Short term prices are consistent with market observable prices, thereafter they are transitioned to a long-term price based on detailed analysis of market fundamentals.
Both prices and margins are kept constant in real terms from 2022 onwards.
Alumina and bauxite prices are not considered a key assumption as they are typically priced as a percentage of aluminium prices.
For the purposes of sensitivities any reasonable possible changes consider movements in both aluminium and alumina as a result of this relationship.
The long-term aluminium price for impairment testing purposes decreased by three per cent in real terms compared to prior year, marginally above the mid-point of the range published by market commentators of US$1,984 and US$2,932 per tonne, with an average of US$2,419 per tonne.
170 170 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements Foreign exchange rates In the determination of FVLCS, the Group uses the 30-day moving average spot exchange rates, kept constant in real terms, as a proxy for long-term future exchanges rates.
For those currencies that show a strong correlation with world commodity prices, specifically the Australian and Canadian dollar, the spot exchange rate is adjusted to ensure consistency with the Groups view of long-term commodity prices.
In 2013 and 2014, the 30 day moving average spot exchange rate is used and a linear annual increase or decrease is assumed over the period from 2014 to 2017.
These long run exchange rate assumptions are applied from 2017.
To determine the long run exchange rates used for the impairment assessment, an adjustment is made to account for the difference between internal commodity price forecasts and the markets expectation of commodity prices.
Operating costs Operating costs are based on long-term production plans and known cost improvement strategies, both of which market participants are aware of.
Underlying input cost assumptions are consistent with related output price assumptions.
As noted above, margins are assumed to remain constant from 2022 onwards.
Goodwill sensitivity analysis Since all of the goodwill within subsidiary companies relating to aluminium businesses has been impaired, an adverse change to any of the key assumptions would lead to a reassessment of impairment indicators which could lead to a further impairment to intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and investments in equity accounted units.
It is estimated that adverse changes in key assumptions would lead to the following decreases in FVLCS which may lead to a further impairment within the Aluminium cash-generating units: US$ billion 0.5% increase in discount rate applied to post-tax cash flows 1.8 5% decrease in aluminium and alumina prices 4.0 5% strengthening of local currencies 2.0 5% increase in operating costs 3.1 Each of the sensitivities above has been determined by assuming that the relevant key assumption moves in isolation, except where modifying the aluminium price directly affects the price assumption for certain input costs and further assumes that there is no mitigating action by management.
Oyu Tolgoi Goodwill of US$983 million arose following consolidation on 15 December 2010 of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, of which US$881 million was calculated in accordance with the requirement in IFRS to recognise a deferred tax asset or liability on the difference between the fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Subsequent to this date, a further US$166 million of goodwill was allocated to the Oyu Tolgoi cash-generating unit on consolidation of the remaining Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. assets on 24 January 2012.
Accordingly, US$1,149 million goodwill was tested for impairment within the Oyu Tolgoi cash-generating unit.
Oyu Tolgois annual impairment review did not result in an impairment charge for 2012 2011 and 2010: no impairment charge.
The recoverable amount has been assessed by reference to FVLCS, in line with the policy set out in note 1 i. FVLCS was determined by estimating cash flows until the end of the life of mine plan.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCS for Oyu Tolgoi is most sensitive are the long-term copper prices: discount rates: operating costs: and the timing of the underground project.
Other assumptions include the long-term gold price, Mongolian Tugrik and Chinese Yuan exchange rates against the US dollar.
Future selling prices and operating costs have been estimated in line with the policy set out in note 1 i.
Based on the assessment of FVLCS, the recoverable amount exceeds the carrying value of all assets by approximately 10.0 per cent.
A five per cent decrease in the long-term copper price, in isolation, would lead to a decrease in the FVLCS and lead to it being equal to its carrying amount.
A 0.5 per cent increase in the discount rate, in isolation, would lead to a decrease in the FVLCS and also lead to it being equal to its carrying amount.
A five per cent increase in operating costs, in isolation, would lead to a US$437 million decrease in the FVLCS which reduces the headroom to 3.7 per cent.
If the timing of the underground project is delayed, this could have an adverse impact upon the recoverable amount due to the delay in commencing full production.
A twelve month delay would eliminate the excess above carrying value and result in an estimated US$150 million impairment to goodwill.
Richards Bay Minerals The Group consolidated Richards Bay Minerals on 3 September 2012.
The majority of goodwill of US$811 million arose in accordance with the requirement in IFRS to recognise a deferred tax asset or liability on the difference between the provisional fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities and their tax base.
The recognition of Richards Bay Minerals identifiable assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position was based on fair values at the acquisition date determined with the assistance of an independent third party valuer.
These fair values are provisional and will be finalised within one year of the acquisition.
Richards Bay Minerals annual impairment review resulted in no impairment charge for 2012 2011 and 2010: no impairment charge.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCS for Richards Bay Minerals is most sensitive are the long-term titanium slag prices and discount rates.
Other assumptions include the long-term pig iron and zircon prices, the South African Rand exchange rate against the US dollar and operating costs.
A five per cent decrease in the long-term titanium slag price, in isolation, would lead to a US$208 million decrease in the FVLCS which would still result in an excess of the recoverable amount over the carrying value of assets.
A 0.5 per cent increase in the discount rate, in isolation, would lead to a US$167 million decrease in the FVLCS which would also result in an excess of the recoverable amount over the carrying value of assets.
Refer to note 38 for further information relating to the consolidation of Richards Bay Minerals.
com 171 171 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 12 Goodwill continued Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique formerly Riversdale Mining Limited The Group acquired a controlling interest in Riversdale Mining Limited on 8 April 2011.
Goodwill of US$530 million arose in accordance with the requirement in IFRS to recognise a deferred tax asset or liability on the difference between the fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities and their tax base.
The acquisition was based on a multi-mine development which assumed a low cost barging solution as a primary means to transport coal to export markets.
The acquisition was predicated on the development of three mines, namely Benga, Zambeze and Tete East that would support an eventual annual production level of 29 million tonnes per annum.
The annual impairment review for Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique RTCM resulted in a full impairment of the goodwill of $541 million in 2012 2011: no impairment charge.
The recoverable amount has been assessed by reference to FVLCS, in line with the policy set out in note 1 i. FVLCS was determined by estimating discounted cash flows until the end of the assets life based on long term production plans, including closure restoration and environmental clean-up costs.
In Mozambique, the development of infrastructure to support the coal asset is more challenging than initially anticipated.
The Group originally sought to transport coal by barge along the Zambeze River, however this option did not receive government approval.
These infrastructure constraints combined with a downward revision to estimates of recoverable coking coal volumes on the RTCM tenements have caused a reduction to the overall scale and ramp up schedule of RTCM and consequently a downward revision of its FVLCS.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCS for RTCM is most sensitive are the thermal coal and hard coking coal price: operating costs: discount rates: and infrastructure assumptions.
Coal prices and operating costs have been estimated in line with the policy set out in note 1 i.
Key assumptions Coal prices Short term prices are consistent with market observable prices, thereafter they are transitioned to a long-term price based on detailed analysis of market fundamentals.
For the purpose of sensitivity analyses any reasonable possible change considers movements in both long-term thermal coal and hard coking coal prices.
The long-term thermal coal price for impairment testing purposes was within the range published by market commentators of US$70 and US$112 per tonne, with an average of US$92 per tonne, albeit at the upper end of this range.
While the long-term price assumption was near the top end of the range, the market commentator prices exclude the impact of carbon pricing, whereas the long-term prices used include an element of carbon pricing see note 1 i.
The price used for impairment testing purposes is based on an assessment of future climate policy evolution and the range of carbon prices that could result from this process.
The long-term hard coking coal price for impairment testing purposes was marginally above the range published by market commentators of US$132 and US$203 per tonne.
The market commentators price does not typically look beyond a five year period: whilst the Group believe that a willing market participant would consider long-term prices, with the long-term price increase resulting from the high level of uncertainty surrounding the hard coking coal supply availability, with the operating and incentive curve volumes insufficient to satisfy demand regardless of the price.
If the long term plus five years price of US$203 per tonne published by market commentators was used to derive the FVLCS, then the recoverable amount would be lower by an amount estimated to be up to US$100 million.
Operating costs Operating costs are based on long term production plans which a market participant would be aware of.
Infrastructure assumptions The FVLCS is based upon RTCM reaching a total output of some 11.5 million tonnes per annum using the existing Sena-Beira railway network and that the current railway network is expanded to an overall capacity of 20 million tonnes per annum by the network owner.
The FVLCS also assumes a constant user charge for the railway network which is based upon the best, currently available information.
If the timing of the expansion to the network is delayed or does not occur, the annual production would be restricted to just the Benga asset which would lead to a decrease in the recoverable amount estimated to be up to US$300 million.
Goodwill sensitivity analysis Since all of the goodwill related to RTCM has been impaired, an adverse change to any of the key assumptions would lead to a reassessment of impairment indicators which could lead to a further impairment to property, plant and equipment and investments in equity accounted units.
It is estimated that adverse changes in key assumptions would lead to the following decreases in FVLCS which may lead to a further impairment within the RTCM cash generating unit: US$ million 0.5% increase in discount rate applied to post-tax cash flows 143 5% decrease in long-term thermal coal and hard coking coal prices 258 5% increase in operating costs 250 Infrastructure restriction as described above 311 Each of the sensitivities above was determined assuming the relevant key assumption moved in isolation.
Other Other goodwill includes US$518 million 2011: US$506 million relating to Australian Iron Ore which comprises the business units located in the Pilbara region of Western Australia that mine iron ore, namely Robe River and Hamersley Iron.
The recoverability of the Other goodwill has been assessed by reference to FVLCS using discounted cash flows, which is in line with the policy set out in note 1 i.
The recoverable amounts were determined to be in excess of carrying value, and there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the remaining goodwill to be impaired by a significant amount.
172 172 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 13 Intangible assets Trademarks, Contract Exploration patented and based Other and non patented intangible intangible a b d evaluation technology assets assets Total Year ended 31 December 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2012 2,857 228 4,335 535 7,955 Adjustment on currency translation 22 4 107 15 148 Expenditure during the year 923 1 84 1,008 c Amortisation for the year 20 127 153 300 Impairment charges, net of reversals 1,581 5 412 7 1,995 Disposals, transfers and other movements 168 6 18 4 188 2,053 212 3,885 478 6,628 At 31 December 2012 3,634 322 5,165 1,248 10,369 cost 1,581 110 1,280 770 3,741 accumulated amortisation and impairment Trademarks, Contract Exploration patented and based Other and non patented intangible intangible a b d evaluation technology assets assets Total Year ended 31 December 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2011 307 259 4,537 597 5,700 Adjustment on currency translation 14 6 79 4 75 Expenditure during the year 248 161 409 c Amortisation for the year 24 123 167 314 1 11 12 Impairment charges 2,425 2,425 Newly consolidated operations 137 41 178 Disposals, transfers and other movements 2,857 228 4,335 535 7,955 At 31 December 2011 2,857 361 5,436 1,106 9,760 cost 133 1,101 571 1,805 accumulated amortisation and impairment a Exploration and evaluation assets useful life is not determined until transferred to property, plant & equipment.
The impairment charge in 2012 of US$1,581 million 2011:nil related to exploration and evaluation assets within Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique RTCM see note 6. b The Group benefits from certain intangible assets acquired with Alcan including power supply contracts, customer contracts and water rights.
The water rights are expected to contribute to the efficiency and cost effectiveness of operations for the foreseeable future: accordingly, these rights are considered to have indefinite lives and are not subject to amortisation.
These water rights constitute the majority of the Contract based intangible assets.
The water rights have been allocated to cash generating units within Aluminium.
In 2012, the recoverable amount of these cash-generating units was determined based on fair value less costs to sell FVLCS, using a methodology and assumptions consistent with those described in note 1 i and note 12.
Refer to note 12 for assumptions and sensitivities relating to the estimates of FVLCS for the Groups Aluminium businesses.
c Finite life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Where amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis, the following useful lives have been determined: Trademark, patented and non-patented technology Trademarks: 14 to 20 years Patented and non-patented technology: 10 to 20 years Contract based intangible assets Power contracts: 2 to 39 years Other purchase and customer contracts: 5 to 15 years Other intangible assets Internally generated intangible assets and computer software: 2 to 5 years Other intangible assets: 2 to 20 years d There are no intangible assets either pledged as security or held under restriction of title.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure The charge for the year and the net amount of intangible assets capitalised during the year are as follows: 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Net expenditure in the year net of proceeds of US$217 million 2011: US$52 million: 2010: US$568 million on disposal of undeveloped projects 2,608 1,604 135 Changes in accruals including impairment of undeveloped projects of US$nil 2011: US$37 million: 2010: nil and non-cash proceeds on disposal of undeveloped projects 209 8 80 Amount capitalised during the year 923 248 143 Net charge for the year 1,476 1,348 72 Reconciliation to income statement Exploration and evaluation costs 1,970 1,437 594 Profit on disposal of interests in undeveloped projects 494 89 522 1,476 1,348 72 Net charge for the year r riotint iotintoo.
com 173 173 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 14 Property, plant and equipment Mining Land Plant Capital properties and and works in a b and leases buildings equipment progress Total Year ended 31 December 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2012 16,475 6,135 27,132 15,225 64,967 Adjustment on currency translation 227 101 561 251 1,140 Adjustments to capitalised closure costs note 27 2,943 2,943 c Interest capitalised note 8 1 766 767 Additions 210 172 1,062 15,718 17,162 a d Depreciation for the year 860 351 2,930 4,141 e Impairment charges, net of reversals 136 340 3,330 1,366 5,172 Disposals 2 8 89 11 110 Newly consolidated operations note 38 2,525 277 735 241 3,778 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 3 37 44 21 105 f Transfers and other movements 1,484 1,086 6,938 9,720 212 At 31 December 2012 16,977 7,035 30,036 21,083 75,131 cost 23,557 10,805 56,052 23,797 114,211 accumulated depreciation and impairment 6,580 3,770 26,016 2,714 39,080 g Non-current assets held under finance leases 16 29 45 h Other non-current assets pledged as security 1,877 226 2,023 158 4,284 Mining Land Plant Capital properties and and works in a b and leases buildings equipment progress Total Year ended 31 December 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2011 14,029 6,299 28,615 7,081 56,024 Adjustment on currency translation 96 88 354 189 727 Adjustments to capitalised closure costs note 27 2,835 2,835 c Interest capitalised note 8 493 493 Additions 178 114 981 10,652 11,925 a d Depreciation for the year 672 321 2,510 3,503 e Impairment charges, net of reversals 142 91 956 568 1,757 Disposals 12 66 33 111 Newly consolidated operations note 38 19 19 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 90 68 118 6 282 f Transfers and other movements 433 302 1,521 2,205 51 At 31 December 2011 16,475 6,135 27,132 15,225 64,967 cost 22,186 9,327 48,080 16,558 96,151 accumulated depreciation and impairment 5,711 3,192 20,948 1,333 31,184 g Non-current assets held under finance leases 18 24 42 h Other non-current assets pledged as security 13 29 1,674 977 2,693 a Mining properties include deferred stripping costs of US$1,431 million 2011: US$1,119 million.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs of US$67 million 2011: US$50 million: 2010: US$11 million is included within Depreciation for the year.
Impairment of deferred stripping costs of US$11 million is charged to the income statement in 2012 2011: US$11 million: 2010: nil.
b At 31 December 2012, the net book value amount for land and buildings includes freehold US$6,919 million 2011: US$6,004 million : long leasehold US$93 million 2011: US$75 million : and short leasehold US$23 million 2011: US$56 million.
c Interest is capitalised at a rate based on the Groups cost of borrowing or at the rate on project specific debt, where applicable.
The Groups average borrowing rate used for capitalisation of interest is 4.6 per cent 2011: 4.8 per cent: 2010: 5.0 per cent.
d Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a straight line basis as follows: Land and Buildings Land: Not depreciated Buildings: 5 to 50 years Plant and equipment Other plant and equipment: 3 to 35 years Power assets: 25 to 100 years Capital work in progress: Not depreciated e During 2012, impairment charges primarily relate to the impairment of Alcan and other aluminium businesses and Argyle.
During 2011 the impairment charge primarily relates to Alcan.
Refer to note 6 for details.
f Transfers and other movements includes reclassifications between categories.
g The finance leases under which these assets are held are disclosed in note 24. h Excludes assets held under finance leases.
Non-current assets pledged as security represent amounts pledged as collateral against US$588 million 2011: US$202 million of loans, which are included in note 23.
174 174 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 15 Investments in equity accounted units c Restated 2012 2011 Summary statement of financial position Rio Tinto share US$m US$m Rio Tintos share of assets Non-current assets 8,787 13,374 Current assets 2,356 3,048 11,143 16,422 Rio Tintos share of liabilities Current liabilities 1,593 2,084 Non-current liabilities 4,238 4,505 5,831 6,589 a b Rio Tintos share of net assets 5,312 9,833 a Further details of investments in jointly controlled entities and associates are set out in notes 35 and 36. b The impact of impairment charges on the Groups investments in equity accounted units is summarised in note 6.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had no investment in associates with shares listed on recognised stock exchanges 2011: the quoted value of such associates was US$6,412 million.
c For 2011, loan receivable balances of US$1,176 million due from Rio Tinto Group companies, previously netted within non-current liabilities, have been reclassified to Rio Tintos share of non-current assets.
Rio Tintos share of net assets remain unchanged as a result of the reclassification.
16 Net debt of equity accounted units excluding amounts due to Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Rio Tinto share of share of Group net debt Group net debt interest funds interest funds 2012 2012 2011 2011 % US$m % US$m Jointly controlled entities Sohar Aluminium Company LLC 20.0 367 20.0 393 Minera Escondida Limitada 30.0 47 30.0 142 d Richards Bay Minerals 37.0 46 Associates d Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. 49.0 278 Port Waratah Coal Services 29.2 410 29.2 362 Minerao Rio do Norte S. A.
12.0 29 12.0 25 Other equity accounted units 72 141 781 549 a In accordance with IAS 28 and IAS 31, the Group includes its net investment in equity accounted units in the consolidated statement of financial position.
This investment is net of the Groups share of the net debt of such units, which is set out above.
Further details of investments in jointly controlled entities and associates are set out in notes 35 and 36. b Some of the debt of equity accounted units is subject to financial and general covenants.
c As 31 December 2012, US$15 million of the debt shown above is with recourse to Rio Tinto, with a maximum exposure of US$4m 2011: US$15 million with maximum exposure of US$5m.
d Richards Bay Minerals RBM and Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. Turquoise Hill, formerly Ivanhoe Mines Limited were classified as subsidiaries at 31 December 2012.
Net surplus of Turquoise Hill in 2011 excluded its share of the net debt of Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
Refer to note 38 for further information relating to the consolidation of Turquoise Hill and RBM in 2012.
17 Inventories 2012 2011 US$m US$m Raw materials and purchased components 1,310 1,292 Consumable stores 1,774 1,385 Work in progress 1,958 1,814 Finished goods and goods for resale 1,517 1,197 6,559 5,688 Comprising: Expected to be used within one year 6,136 5,307 Expected to be used after more than one year 423 381 6,559 5,688 Inventory write downs, net of reversals, amounting to US$208 million 2011: US$184 million: 2010: US$115 million were recognised during the year.
com 175 175 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 18 Trade and other receivables Non current Current Non current Current 2012 2012 2011 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade receivables 3,218 11 3,721 a Provision for doubtful debts 23 35 Trade receivables net 3,195 11 3,686 Amounts due from equity accounted units 317 321 318 422 b Other receivables 1,140 1,470 1,025 1,368 Pension surpluses note 46 154 88 c Prepayment of tolling charges to jointly controlled entities 755 634 Other prepayments 237 333 289 582 2,603 5,319 2,365 6,058 a At 31 December 2012, trade and other receivables of US$23 million 2011: US$35 million were impaired.
The majority of these receivables were more than 90 days overdue.
b Non-current receivables at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 included a US$700 million prepayment for an intangible asset, following signing of the agreement for the Simandou iron ore project.
The prepayment is shown as a purchase of intangible assets in the cash flow statement for 2011. c Rio Tinto Aluminium has made certain prepayments to jointly controlled entities for toll processing of bauxite and alumina.
These prepayments will be charged to Group operating costs as processing takes place.
There is no material element of trade and other receivables that is interest bearing.
Due to their comparatively short term maturities, the fair value of current trade and other receivables including the majority of amounts classified as non-current assets, approximates their carrying value.
As of 31 December 2012, trade and other receivables of US$190 million 2011: US$159 million were past due but not impaired.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m less than 30 days overdue 117 104 between 30 and 60 days overdue 22 29 between 60 and 90 days overdue 19 22 more than 90 days overdue 32 4 190 159 These relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default or other indicators of impairment.
With respect to trade and other receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
19 Deferred taxation 2012 2011 US$m US$m At 1 January 4,335 3,359 Adjustment on currency translation 56 13 Credited charged to the income statement 3,447 308 a Credited to statement of comprehensive income 81 511 b Newly consolidated operations note 38 1,027 1,187 Transfer to asset held for sale note 20 93 c Other movements 419 5 At 31 December 1,378 4,335 Comprising: d e deferred tax liabilities 4,736 6,210 d f g deferred tax assets 3,358 1,875 176 176 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements Deferred tax balances for which there is a right of offset within the same jurisdiction are presented net on the face of the statement of financial position as permitted by IAS 12.
The closing deferred tax liabilities and assets, prior to this offsetting of balances, are shown below.
Total Total 2012 2011 US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities arising from: Accelerated capital allowances 7,300 8,424 Unrealised exchange gains 738 681 Capitalised interest 683 457 Unremitted earnings 536 480 Other temporary differences 930 844 10,187 10,886 Deferred tax assets arising from: h Capital allowances 2,539 502 Tax losses 2,107 1,454 Post retirement benefits 1,791 1,738 Provisions 1,674 2,057 Unrealised exchange losses 246 241 Other temporary differences 452 559 8,809 6,551 Credited charged to the income statement Decelerated capital allowances 3,270 172 Tax losses 432 66 Provisions 45 16 Tax on unremitted earnings 26 39 Unrealised exchange losses 58 299 Post retirement benefits 85 117 Other temporary differences 183 25 3,447 308 a The amounts credited directly to the Statement of comprehensive income relate to tax relief on share options, provisions for tax on exchange differences on intragroup loans qualifying for reporting as part of the net investment in subsidiaries, on cash flow hedges and on actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes and post retirement healthcare plans.
b Deferred tax relating to newly consolidated operations is principally due to deferred tax liabilities arising on the difference between the fair value and the tax base of the assets of Richards Bay Minerals and Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. in 2012 and Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique in 2011.
Refer to note 38. c Other movements include deferred tax relating to tax payable recognised by subsidiary holding companies on the profits of the equity accounted units to which it relates.
d The deferred tax liability of US$4,736 million 2011: US$6,210 million includes US$4,771 million 2011: US$6,036 million due in more than one year.
The deferred tax asset of US$3,358 million 2011: US$1,875 million includes US$3,212 million 2011: US$1,767 million receivable in more than one year.
e Deferred tax is not recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the Group is able to control the timing of the remittance and it is probable that there will be no remittance in the foreseeable future.
If these earnings were remitted, tax of US$198 million 2011: US$187 million would be payable.
f US$15,154 million 2011: US$1,959 million of potential deferred tax assets have not been recognised as assets in these financial statements.
US$12,631 million 2011: $nil of the potential assets relate to temporary differences that are deductible for the purposes of Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT.
US$1,034 million 2011: US$797 million of the potential assets relate to trading losses in France, which were acquired as part of the Alcan acquisition.
US$447 million 2011: US$595 million of the potential assets relate to realised or unrealised capital losses, recovery of which depends on the existence of capital gains in future years.
There is a time limit, the shortest of which is 2 years, for the recovery of US$116 million of these potential assets 2011: US$45 million.
g There is a limited time period, the shortest of which is 4 years, for the recovery of US$1,017 million 2011: US$896 million of tax losses and other tax assets which have been recognised as deferred tax assets in the financial statements.
h Deferred tax assets arising from capital allowances include amounts arising following the introduction of the Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT on 1 July 2012.
20 Assets and liabilities held for sale At 31 December 2012 assets and liabilities held for sale comprise Palabora Mining Company Limited and Zululand Anthracite Colliery, which was acquired with Riversdale Mining Limited.
On 11 December 2012, Rio Tinto announced that it had reached a binding agreement to sell its 57.7 per cent effective interest in Palabora for $373 million.
The purchaser is a consortium comprising South African and Chinese entities led by the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa Limited and Hebei Iron & Steel Group.
The sale is subject to customary regulatory approvals in South Africa and China which are expected to take four to six months.
In relation to Palabora, assets held for sale include: plant, property and equipment: $299 million, cash and other financial asset: $306 million and other assets: $275 million: liabilities held for sale include: provisions: $116m, other financial liabilities: $100 million and other liabilities: $153 million.
Other assets and liabilities held for sale relate to ZAC, which was classified as held for sale on acquisition.
At 31 December 2011 assets and liabilities held for sale comprise Zululand Anthracite Colliery, which was acquired with Riversdale Mining Limited.
com 177 177 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 21 Other financial assets Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans to equity accounted units 17 270 287 468 121 589 Derivative financial instruments 378 25 403 358 120 478 Equity shares and quoted funds 405 71 476 549 153 702 Other investments, including loans 265 167 432 547 191 738 Tax recoverable non-current 86 86 74 74 1,151 533 1,684 1,996 585 2,581 Detailed information relating to other financial assets is given in note 31.
22 Cash and cash equivalents 2012 2011 Note US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 1,267 2,167 Other short term deposits 5,815 7,503 Balance per Group statement of financial position 7,082 9,670 Bank overdrafts repayable on demand unsecured 23 94 16 Cash and cash equivalents included in Assets held for sale 234 Balance per Group cash flow statement 7,222 9,654 Cash and cash equivalents include US$108 million 2011: US$305 million for which there are restrictions on remittances.
Other short term borrowings principally earn interest at a floating rate based on Libor plus a fixed spread.
178 178 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 23 Borrowings and other financial liabilities Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 Borrowings at 31 December Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m USD Commercial Paper 200 200 b Alcan Inc.
com 179 179 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 23 Borrowings and other financial liabilities continued Other financial liabilities Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments 70 23 93 115 184 299 Other financial liabilities 58 58 57 57 Total other financial liabilities 128 23 151 172 184 356 Total borrowings and other financial liabilities 24,591 2,228 26,819 20,357 1,447 21,804 Detailed information relating to other financial liabilities is given in note 31. a As at 31 December 2012, US$5.4 billion US dollar notional of the fixed rate US dollar borrowings were swapped to floating US dollar rates, US$1.6 billion US dollar notional equivalent of Euro borrowings were fully swapped to floating US dollar rates and US$0.8 billion US dollar notional equivalent of Pound Sterling borrowings were fully swapped to fixed US dollar rates.
The Rio Tinto Finance Plc Sterling Bonds 4.0% due 2029 has been designated as a cash flow hedge.
Other borrowings have been swapped to floating rates and fair value hedge accounting has been applied except for US$100m of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% due 2013 which is swapped but not in a fair value hedge: US$87 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 5.875% due 2013 which is swapped but not in a fair value hedge: US$250 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 8.95% due 2014: US$750 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 6.5% due 2018: US$75 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% due 2028: and US$200 million of the Alcan Inc.
The fair value of interest rate and cross currency interest rate swap assets and liabilities at 31 December 2012 was US$347 million and US$44 million, respectively.
These are included in other financial assets and other financial liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Details of the major interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps are shown in note 31.
US$0.8 billion of borrowings were subject to financial covenants.
b As at 31 December 2011, US$6.1 billion notional of the fixed rate borrowings were fully swapped to floating rates and US$0.3 billion notional of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited 9.0% due 2019 was swapped for the first two years to floating rates.
Fair value hedge accounting has been applied to the entire amounts borrowed except for US$500 million of the Alcan Inc.
Global Notes 4.875%due 2012, US$87 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited bonds 5.875% due 2013, US$250 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 8.95% due 2014, US$750 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 6.5% due 2018, US$75 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% 2028 and the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited 9.0% due 2019.
The fair value of interest rate swap assets and liabilities at 31 December 2011 was US$347 million and US$2 million, respectively.
Details of the major interest rate swaps are shown in note 31. c Rio Tinto has a US$10 billion 2011: US$10 billion European Debt Issuance Programme EDIP against which the cumulative amount utilised was US$2.4 billion equivalent at 31 December 2012 2011:US$ nil.
The carrying value of these bonds after hedge accounting adjustments amounted to US$2.4 billion 2011: US$ nil in aggregate.
d The Groups borrowings of US$26.7 billion 2011: US$21.4 billion include some US$4.1 billion 2011: US$7.0 billion which relates to subsidiary entity borrowings that are without recourse to the Group, some of which are subject to various financial and general covenants with which the respective borrowers were in compliance as at 31 December 2012. e At 31 December 2011 US$3.4 billion of unsecured US dollar loans from equity accounted units which incurred interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 6.5% LIBOR plus 6.5% from February 2011: 9.9% in prior periods, were denominated in US dollars and repayable out of future profits.
There were no such loans at 31 December 2012.
Balances at 31 December 2011 included amounts due from Oyu Tolgoi LLC to Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. formerly Ivanhoe Mines Limited which eliminated on consolidation of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. in 2012, refer to note 38.
24 Capitalised finance leases 2012 2011 Note US$m US$m Present value of minimum lease payments Total minimum lease payments 55 70 Effect of discounting 2 1 14 53 69 Payments under capitalised finance leases Due within one year 12 35 Between 1 and 3 years 15 Between 3 and 5 years 20 10 More than 5 years 21 9 14 53 69 180 180 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 25 Consolidated net debt 2012 2011 US$m US$m Analysis of changes in consolidated net debt Opening balance 8,451 4,071 Adjustment on currency translation 383 39 a Exchange gains losses credited charged to the income statement 422 85 Cash movements excluding exchange movements 10,405 4,498 b Debt of acquired companies 540 Other movements 96 242 Closing balance 19,261 8,451 Total borrowings in statement of financial position note 23 26,668 21,448 Derivatives related to net debt note 31 294 345 c EAU funded balances excluded from net debt 31 2,982 Adjusted total borrowings 26,343 18,121 Cash and cash equivalents note 22 7,082 9,670 Consolidated net debt 19,261 8,451 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances excluded from Underlying earnings Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt 421 175 1,119 Exchange gains losses on intragroup balances 54 36 589 Exchange gains on loans from equity accounted units 4 1 20 Exchange gains losses on settlement of dividend 18 16 21 Credited charged to income statement 497 154 529 a Exchange gains taken to the income statement include amounts excluded from Underlying earnings.
b Relates to the consolidation of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. Turquoise Hill on 24 January 2012 and of Richards Bay Minerals on 3 September 2012.
Refer to note 38. c Consolidated net debt is stated net of the impact of certain funding arrangements relating to EAUs and partially owned subsidiaries EAU funded balances.
This adjustment is required in order to avoid showing borrowings twice in the net debt disclosure, where funding has been provided to an EAU by the Group and subsequently on lent by the EAU to a consolidated Group subsidiary.
Following consolidation of Turquoise Hill on 24 January 2012, EAU funded balances in respect of Turquoise Hill and Oyu Tolgoi LLC OT at 31 December 2011 have been eliminated.
Further information relating to the currency and interest rate exposures arising from net debt and related derivatives is given in note 31.
26 Trade and other payables Non current Current Non current Current 2012 2012 2011 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade payables 3,214 3,288 Amounts owed to equity accounted units 106 408 346 243 a Other payables 83 1,082 107 1,852 Employee entitlements 55 860 766 Royalties and mining taxes 539 653 Accruals and deferred income 167 3,136 126 2,572 Government grants deferred 128 5 140 7 539 9,244 719 9,381 a Other payables include deferred consideration of US$82 million 2011: US$94 million relating to certain assets acquired.
All other accounts payable and accruals are non interest bearing.
Due to their short term maturities, the fair value of trade and other payables approximates their carrying value.
com 181 181 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 27 Provisions including post retirement benefits Pensions and Other Close down post retirement employee and restoration Total Total a b c d e f healthcare entitlements environmental Other 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 5,955 871 11,654 677 19,157 14,484 Adjustment on currency translation 107 20 218 10 355 236 f Adjustments to mining properties note14 changes in estimate 1,854 1,854 2,022 change in discount rate 1,089 1,089 813 Charged credited to profit: increases to existing provisions 380 225 107 5 717 655 new provisions 241 37 61 339 285 change in discount rate 130 130 96 unused amounts reversed 2 16 90 6 114 82 exchange gains losses on provisions 6 1 5 7 amortisation of discount 1 431 432 365 Utilised in year 670 399 306 130 1,505 1,305 Actuarial losses recognised in equity 466 466 1,925 Newly consolidated operations note 38 26 61 87 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 3 90 93 125 Transfers to from assets held for sale 52 83 135 128 Transfers and other movements 11 89 30 33 37 125 At 31 December 6,199 851 8,890 651 16,591 19,157 Statement of financial position analysis: Current 135 601 410 376 1,522 1,487 Non-current 6,064 250 8,480 275 15,069 17,670 Total 6,199 851 8,890 651 16,591 19,157 a The main assumptions used to determine the provision for pensions and post retirement healthcare, and other information, including the expected level of future funding payments in respect of those arrangements, are given in note 46. b The provision for other employee entitlements includes a provision for long service leave of US$325 million 2011: US$313 million, based on the relevant entitlements in certain Group operations and includes US$77 million 2011: US$71 million of provision for redundancy and severance payments.
c The Groups policy on close down and restoration costs is described in note 1 k and 1 s iv, critical accounting policies and estimates.
Close down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining, and the majority of close down and restoration expenditure is incurred at the end of the relevant operation.
Remaining lives of mines and infrastructure range from one to over 50 years with an average, weighted by closure provision, of around 21 years 2011: 19 years.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their respective costs based on feasibility and engineering studies using current restoration standards and techniques.
Provisions of US$8,890 million 2011: US$11,654 million for close down and restoration costs and environmental clean up obligations include estimates of the effect of future inflation and have been adjusted to reflect risk.
These estimates have been discounted to their present value at an average nominal rate of approximately four per cent per annum, based on an estimate of the long term, risk free, pre-tax cost of borrowing.
Excluding the effects of future inflation and before discounting, this provision is equivalent to some US$13.0 billion 2011: US$14.8 billion.
d Non-current provisions for close down and restoration environmental expenditure include amounts relating to environmental clean up of US$507 million 2011: US$327 million expected to take place between one and five years from the statement of financial position date, and US$793 million 2011: US$1,028 million expected to take place later than five years after the statement of financial position date.
e Close down and restoration environmental liabilities at 31 December 2012 have not been adjusted for amounts of US$198 million relating to insurance recoveries and other financial assets held for the purposes of meeting these obligations f Close down and restoration environmental remediation provisions decreased during the year following a Group wide review of estimated liabilities.
The review included a re-evaluation of the methodology for estimating risk free discount rates in light of the impact of fiscal interventions and, where appropriate, probability weighting for the different remediation or closure outcomes which could realistically arise.
182 182 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 28 Share capital Rio Tinto plc 2012 2011 2010 Number Number Number 2012 2011 2010 million million million US$m US$m US$m Issued and fully paid up share capital of 10p each At 1 January 1,453.400 1,529.004 1,529.004 234 246 246 b Ordinary shares purchased but uncancelled on 1 January 1.800 b Own shares purchased and cancelled 26.224 75.604 4 12 At 31 December 1,425.376 1,453.400 1,529.004 230 234 246 Shares held by public At 1 January 1,436.542 1,526.305 1,523.969 a Shares reissued from treasury 0.939 0.875 2.336 b Shares purchased and cancelled 26.224 75.604 c Shares purchased and held in treasury 13.234 b Shares purchased and awaiting cancellation 1.800 At 31 December 1,411.257 1,436.542 1,526.305 b Shares repurchased and held in treasury 14.119 15.058 2.699 b Shares repurchased and awaiting cancellation 1.800 Shares held by public 1,411.257 1,436.542 1,526.305 Total share capital 1,425.376 1,453.400 1,529.004 Other share classes d Special Voting Share of 10p each 1 only 1 only 1 only d DLC Dividend Share of 10p each 1 only 1 only 1 only d Equalisation Share of 10p each 1 only 1 only 1 only a No new Ordinary shares were issued in 2012.
939,423 Ordinary shares were reissued from treasury during the year resulting from the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share based payment plans, with exercise prices between 10.43p and 39.46p per share 2011: no new ordinary shares were issued, and 875,057 Ordinary shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices between 10.43p and 47.12p per share: 2010: no new ordinary shares issued and 2,336,005 Ordinary shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices between 7.98p and 40.07p per share.
b The authority for the Company to buy back its Ordinary shares was renewed at the 2012 annual general meeting.
From February to April 2011, 14,371,550 shares were bought back and held in treasury of which 1,137,550 were cancelled.
From April to December 2011 76,266,945 shares were bought back of which 74,466,945 were cancelled in 2011.
From January to March 2012 26,223,910 shares were bought back and cancelled and 1,800,000 shares purchased and awaiting cancellation at 31 December 2011 were cancelled.
c The aggregate consideration received for treasury shares reissued was US$39 million 2011: US$48 million: 2010: US$92 million.
No new shares were issued as a result of the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share based payment plans in 2012, 2011 and 2010. d The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited on Joint Decisions, following the DLC merger.
Directors have the ability to issue an Equalisation Share if that is required under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement.
The DLC Dividend Share was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure.
During 2012, US$41 million of shares 2011: US$86 million of shares: 2010: US$39 million of shares were purchased by the Employee Share Ownership Trust on behalf of Rio Tinto plc to satisfy future share options and awards as they vest.
Information relating to share options and other share based incentive schemes is given in note 45 on share based payments.
com 183 183 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 29 Share capital Rio Tinto Limited 2012 2011 2010 Number Number Number 2012 2011 2010 million million million US$m US$m US$m Issued and fully paid up share capital no par value At 1 January 435.76 435.76 435.76 5,582 5,601 4,924 Adjustment on currency translation 133 19 677 At 31 December 435.76 435.76 435.76 5,715 5,582 5,601 a Special Voting Share 1 only 1 only 1 only a DLC Dividend Share 1 only 1 only 1 only Total share capital 435.76 435.76 435.76 a The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc on Joint Decisions following the DLC merger.
No shares were bought back during 2012 and 2011.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, Rio Tinto Limited purchased and cancelled 171,072,520 ordinary shares off-market, which were held by Tinto Holdings Australia Pty Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc.
The selective buyback and cancellation were approved by shareholders at the 2010 Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting.
As a result of these transactions, no ordinary shares in Rio Tinto Limited are held by the above subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc.
Share options exercised during the year to 31 December 2012 under various Rio Tinto Limited employee share option schemes were satisfied by the on-market purchase of Rio Tinto Limited shares by a third party on the Groups behalf.
30 Other reserves and retained earnings 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m a Capital redemption reserve 24 12 12 At 1 January 4 12 Own shares purchased and cancelled 28 24 12 At 31 December b Hedging reserves At 1 January 44 155 128 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge fair value losses gains 60 84 72 46 81 47 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement 2 1 Net movement on equity accounted units cash flow hedges 11 56 1 Tax on the above 69 44 155 At 31 December c Available for sale revaluation reserves At 1 January 193 427 247 Losses gains on available for sale securities 25 238 213 Gains on available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 355 19 10 Tax on the above 8 23 23 179 193 427 At 31 December d Other reserves At 1 January 11,765 11,785 11,776 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto Limited shareholders to satisfy share options 62 71 84 Employee share options: value of services 78 71 48 Deferred tax on share options 3 20 21 Cash settled share options reclassified as equity settled 24 11,778 11,765 11,785 At 31 December e Foreign currency translation reserve 2,793 3,574 2,103 At 1 January Parent and subsidiaries currency translation and exchange adjustments 610 891 1,230 Equity accounted units currency translation adjustments 108 54 208 Currency translation reclassified on disposal 3 46 6 Tax on the above 1 10 27 3,291 2,793 3,574 At 31 December 14,849 14,731 15,643 Total other reserves per statement of financial position 184 184 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m f Retained earnings At 1 January 27,784 32,499 20,477 Parent and subsidiaries loss profit for the year 3,528 5,720 14,229 Equity accounted units retained profit for the year 538 106 9 g Actuarial losses 398 1,911 769 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 98 513 236 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 3,290 4,428 13,705 Share buyback scheme 764 6,210 Dividends paid 3,038 2,236 1,754 Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto 1,128 793 h Own shares purchased treasury shares reissued for share options and other items 38 10 31 Employee share options and other IFRS 2 charges taken to the income statement 45 86 69 Cash settled share options reclassified as equity settled 33 At 31 December 21,827 27,784 32,499 a The capital redemption reserve was set up to comply with section 733 of the Companies Act 2006 previously 170 of the Companies Act 1985 when shares of a company are redeemed or purchased wholly out of the companys profits.
The amount at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 reflects the amount by which the Companys issued share capital is diminished in accordance with this section.
b The hedging reserve records gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are recognised initially in equity, as described in note 1 p iii.
c The available for sale revaluation reserves record fair value gains or losses relating to available for sale securities, as described in note 1 p i d. d Other reserves record the cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto Limited, less, where applicable, the cost of shares purchased to satisfy share options exercised.
The cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto plc is recorded in retained earnings.
e Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Groups net investment in foreign controlled companies are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve, as described in note 1 d. The cumulative differences relating to an investment are transferred to the income statement when the investment is disposed of.
f Retained profit and movements in reserves of subsidiaries include those arising from the Groups share of proportionally consolidated units.
g There were no actuarial losses relating to equity accounted units during the year 2011: US$5 million: 2010: US$4 million.
h In 2011, this is stated net of a US$95 million reclassification between share premium and retained earnings, relating to the weighted average cost of shares held that was applied to the sale of shares in Rio Tinto plc to Rio Tinto Limited, and for the satisfaction of share options, in prior periods.
com 185 185 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 31 Financial instruments and risk management Except, where stated, the information given below relates to the financial instruments of the parent companies and their subsidiaries and proportionally consolidated units, and excludes those of equity accounted units.
The information is grouped in the following sections: A Financial assets and liabilities by categories B Derivatives and financial instruments C Fair values A a Financial assets and liabilities by categories Held to maturity assets other Available for Held at financial Loans and sale securities Total receivables fair value liabilities At 31 December 2012 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 22 7,082 7,082 a Trade and other receivables 18 6,338 6,338 Equity shares and quoted funds 21 476 476 Other investments, including loans 21 432 172 260 c Currency and commodity contracts: designated as hedges 21 10 10 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: c not designated as hedges 21 46 46 c Derivatives related to net debt 21,23,25 347 347 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 873 873 Total financial assets 15,604 14,465 476 663 Financial liabilities b Trade and other payables 26 7,759 7,759 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 23 2,205 2,205 Medium and long term borrowings 23 24,463 24,463 Deferred consideration 26 82 82 c Forward commodity contracts: designated as hedges 23 c Derivatives related to net debt 23,25 53 53 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated as c hedges 23 40 40 Other financial liabilities 23 58 58 Total financial liabilities 34,660 93 34,567 186 186 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements Held to maturity assets other Available for Held at financial Loans and sale securities Total receivables fair value liabilities At 31 December 2011 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 22 9,670 9,670 a Trade and other receivables 18 6,738 6,738 Equity shares and quoted funds 21 702 702 Other investments, including loans 21 738 140 338 260 c Currency and commodity contracts: designated as hedges 21 86 86 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: c not designated as hedges 21 45 45 c Derivatives related to net debt 21,23,25 347 347 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 1,816 1,816 Total financial assets 20,142 18,364 702 816 260 Financial liabilities b Trade and other payables 26 8,121 8,121 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 23 1,263 1,263 Medium and long term borrowings 23 20,185 20,185 Deferred consideration 26 94 94 c Forward commodity contracts: designated as hedges 23 210 210 c Derivatives related to net debt 23,25 2 2 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated c as hedges 23 87 87 Other financial liabilities 23 57 57 Total financial liabilities 30,019 299 29,720 a This excludes pension surpluses, prepayment of tolling charges to jointly controlled entities, other prepayments and specific balances within other receivables.
b Trade and other payables includes trade payables, amounts owed to equity accounted units, other payables excluding deferred consideration disclosed separately and accruals.
c These financial assets and liabilities in aggregate agree to total derivative financial instruments disclosed in notes 21 Other financial assets and 23 Borrowings and other financial liabilities.
A b Financial risk management Funding and exposure management The Groups policies on financial risk management are clearly defined and consistently applied.
They are a fundamental part of the Groups long term strategy covering areas such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital management.
The Group mainly sells commodities it has produced and also enters into third party transactions and physical swaps on alumina to balance the regional positions and to balance the loading on production facilities.
The Group has a diverse portfolio of commodities and operates in a number of markets, which have varying responses to the economic cycle.
The relationship between commodity prices and the currencies of most of the countries in which the Group operates provides further natural protection in the long term.
Production of minerals, aluminium and alumina is an important contributor to the Gross Domestic Products of Australia and Canada, countries in which the Group has a large presence.
As a consequence, the Australian and Canadian currencies have historically tended to strengthen when commodity prices are high.
In addition, US dollar floating interest rates have historically also tended to be high when commodity prices are high, and vice versa, and hence the Groups interest rate policy is to generally borrow and invest, after the impact of hedging, at floating interest rates.
However, in some circumstances, the Group reserves the right to maintain a higher proportion of fixed rate funding.
These natural hedges significantly reduce the necessity for using derivatives or other forms of synthetic hedging.
Such hedging is therefore undertaken to a strictly limited degree, as described below.
Treasury operations Treasury operates as a service to the business of the Rio Tinto Group and not as a profit centre.
Strict limits on the size and type of transactions permitted are laid down by the Rio Tinto board and are subject to rigorous internal controls.
Senior management is advised of corporate cash and debt positions, as well as commodity, currency interest rate and interest rate derivatives through a monthly reporting framework.
Treasury policy Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes: nor does it believe that it has material exposure to such trading or speculative holdings through its investments in joint ventures and associates.
Derivatives are used to separate funding and cash management decisions from currency exposure and interest rate management.
Bank counterparty exposures are managed within allocated credit limits.
Investment, funding and cash management activities are managed and co-ordinated by Treasury.
com 187 187 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 31 Financial instruments and risk management continued i Foreign exchange risk MANAGEMENT POLICY Rio Tintos shareholders equity, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the Groups sales and the countries in which it operates.
The US dollar, however, is the currency in which the majority of the Groups sales are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of those countries where the Groups mines and processing plants are located and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported equipment and services are determined.
The Australian and Canadian dollars are the most important currencies apart from the US dollar influencing costs.
In any particular year, currency fluctuations may have a significant impact on Rio Tintos financial results.
A strengthening of the US dollar against the currencies in which the Groups costs are partly determined has a positive effect on Rio Tintos Underlying earnings.
Given the dominant role of the US currency in the Groups affairs, the US dollar is the currency in which financial results are presented both internally and externally.
It is also the most appropriate currency for financing the Groups operations.
Borrowings and cash are predominantly denominated in US dollars, either directly or through the use of derivatives.
Certain US dollar debt and other financial assets and liabilities, including intragroup balances, are not held in the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
This results in an accounting exposure to exchange gains and losses as the financial assets and liabilities are translated into the functional currency of the subsidiary that holds those assets and liabilities.
These exchange gains and losses are recorded in the Groups income statement except to the extent that they can be taken to equity under the Groups accounting policy which is explained in note 1 d. Gains and losses on US dollar net debt and on intragroup balances are excluded from Underlying earnings.
Other exchange gains and losses are included in Underlying earnings.
See section B for the details of cross currency interest rate and interest rate swaps relating to borrowings.
After taking into account relevant swap instruments, almost all of the Groups net debt is denominated in US dollars.
The table below summarises, by currency, the net debt, after taking into account relevant currency swaps: Total borrowings in EAU funded Cash and statement of Derivatives balances cash financial related to excluded from Net debt Net debt equivalents position net debt net debt 2012 2011 Net debt funds by currency US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m United States dollar 5,993 24,991 294 18,704 8,701 Australian dollar 676 908 31 201 124 South African rand 90 348 258 104 UK sterling 100 100 322 Euro 43 220 177 133 Canadian dollar 36 195 159 81 Other 144 6 138 162 Total 7,082 26,668 294 31 19,261 8,451 HEDGING STRATEGY Under normal market conditions, the Group does not generally believe that active currency hedging of transactions would provide long term benefits to shareholders.
The Group reviews its exposure on a regular basis and reserves the right to enter into hedges to maintain financial stability.
Currency protection measures may be deemed appropriate in specific commercial circumstances, typically hedging of capital expenditures and other significant financial items such as acquisitions, disposals, tax and dividends, and are subject to strict limits laid down by the Rio Tinto board.
A monthly treasury report is provided to senior management which summarises corporate debt exposed to currency risks after the impact of derivatives.
Refer to section B for the details of currency forward, cross currency interest rate and option contracts used to manage the currency risk exposures of the Group at 31 December 2012.
SENSITIVITIES The sensitivities below give the estimated effect of a ten per cent strengthening in the closing exchange rate of the US dollar against significant currencies on the value of financial instruments.
The sensitivity associated with a ten per cent weakening of a particular currency would be equal and opposite to the figures presented.
The impact is expressed in terms of the effect on net earnings, Underlying earnings and equity, assuming that each exchange rate moves in isolation.
The sensitivities are based on financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 December 2012, where balances are not denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary, and exclude financial assets and liabilities held by equity accounted units.
These balances will not remain constant throughout 2013, and therefore the sensitivities should be used with care.
At 31 December 2012 Gains losses associated with 10% strengthening of the US dollar Of which amount impacting Impact Closing Effect on net Underlying directly exchange rate earnings earnings on equity Currency Exposure US cents US$m US$m US$m Australian dollar 104 823 83 1 Canadian dollar 100 1,441 32 1 South African rand 12 3 1 Euro 132 27 31 New Zealand dollar 82 53 188 188 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements At 31 December 2011 Gains losses associated with 10% strengthening of the US dollar Of which amount impacting Impact Closing Effect on net Underlying directly exchange rate earnings earnings on equity Currency Exposure US cents US$m US$m US$m Australian dollar 101 536 78 1 Canadian dollar 98 1,190 41 South African rand 12 4 5 Euro 130 239 22 1 New Zealand dollar 77 52 4 ii Interest rate risk MANAGEMENT POLICY Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates.
Rio Tintos interest rate management policy is generally to borrow and invest at floating interest rates.
This approach is based on historical correlation between interest rates and commodity prices.
In some circumstances, a higher proportion of fixed rate funding may be considered appropriate.
HEDGING STRATEGY As noted above, Rio Tinto hedges its interest rate risk by entering into interest rate derivatives to achieve its policies.
The market value of such instruments moves in alignment with the market and at times can act as an alternative source of funding.
The Group reviews the positions on a regular basis and may act to monetise in-the-money instruments either to take advantage of favourable market conditions or manage counterparty credit risk.
During 2012, the Group closed out interest rate swaps with a notional principal of US$200 million 2011: US$1,325 million giving rise to a net cash inflow of US$3 million 2011: US$96 million including accrued interest of US$3 million 2011: US$15 million.
The interest rate swaps were in fair value hedge relationships prior to close out.
See section B for the details of currency and interest rate swaps relating to borrowings.
At the end of 2012, US$17.7 billion 2011: US$10.8 billion of the Groups adjusted total borrowings was at fixed rates after taking into account interest and currency interest rate swaps, resulting in a fixed to floating debt ratio of 67 per cent fixed to 33 per cent floating 2011: 60 per cent fixed to 40 per cent floating.
On a net debt basis, the fixed to floating debt ratio was 91 per cent fixed to 9 per cent floating 2011: 128 per cent fixed to 28 per cent floating.
The weighted average effective interest rate on total adjusted borrowings as at 31 December 2012 was 4% 2011: 5% and the weighted average maturity was around 9 years 2011: around 10 years.
The weighted average effective interest rate is based on interest rates and carrying value of gross borrowings at the year end.
Interest rates, as at 31 December, are applied for debt at floating rates.
The net debt ratio at the end of 2012 and 2011 reflects the high level of cash, cash equivalents and other liquid resources held by the Group and the impact of borrowings held at fixed rates.
See note 23 Borrowings for the details of debt outstanding at 31 December 2012.
SENSITIVITIES Based on the Groups net debt refer to note 25 and other floating rate financial instruments outstanding as at 31 December 2012, the effect on net earnings of a half percentage point increase in US dollar LIBOR interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would be a decrease of US$9 million 2011: increase of US$8 million reflecting the high level of cash at period end.
The Group has an exposure to interest rate volatility within shareholders equity arising from fair value movements on derivatives in the cash flow reserve.
The derivatives have an underlying exposure to Pound Sterling and US Dollar rates.
With all factors remaining constant and based on the composition of derivatives impacting the cash flow reserve at 31 December 2012, the sensitivity of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates in each of the currencies in isolation would impact equity, before tax, by US$126 million charge 2011: US$nil for Pound Sterling and US$125 million credit 2011: US$nil for US Dollar.
A 100 basis point decrease would have broadly the same impact in the opposite direction.
iii Commodity price risk MANAGEMENT POLICY The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down by the Rio Tinto board and to rigid internal controls.
Metals such as copper and aluminium are generally sold under contracts which vary in tenure and pricing mechanisms, with some volumes sold in the spot market.
The prices are determined by reference to prevailing market prices on terminal markets, such as the London Metal Exchange LME and COMEX in New York.
Prices fluctuate widely in response to changing levels of supply and demand but, in the long run, prices are related to the marginal cost of supply.
Gold is also priced in an active market in which prices respond to daily changes in quantities offered and sought.
Newly mined gold is only one source of supply: investment and disinvestment can be important elements of supply and demand.
Contract prices for many other natural resource products including coal are generally agreed quarterly or for longer periods with customers, although volume commitments vary by product.
Certain products, predominantly copper concentrate are provisionally priced, i. e. the selling price is determined normally 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue recognised on provisionally priced sales is based on estimates of fair value of the consideration receivable which is based on forward market prices.
At each reporting date provisionally priced metal sales are marked to market based on the forward selling price for the period stipulated in the contract.
For this purpose, the selling price can be measured reliably for those products, such as copper for which an active and freely traded commodity market exists such as the LME and the value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is traded on that market.
com 189 189 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 31 Financial instruments and risk management continued The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is recorded as an adjustment to sales revenue.
At the end of 2012, the Group had 249 million pounds of copper sales 2011: 181 million pounds that were provisionally priced at US 360 cents per pound 2011: US 344 cents per pound.
The final price of these sales will be determined during the first half of 2013.
A ten per cent change in the price of copper realised on the provisionally priced sales would increase or reduce net earnings by US$56 million 2011: US$41 million.
HEDGING STRATEGY Rio Tintos exposure to commodity prices is diversified by virtue of its broad commodity base and the Group does not generally believe commodity price hedging would provide a long term benefit to shareholders.
The Group may hedge certain commitments with some of its customers or suppliers.
Details of commodity derivatives held at 31 December 2012 are set out in section B. SENSITIVITIES The Groups commodity derivatives are impacted by changes in market prices and include those aluminium forward and option contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts outstanding at 31 December 2012.
The Groups sensitivity to changes in market prices, based on the assumption that the market price increases by ten per cent with all other variables held constant, would not be significant in terms of the resulting change in the Groups net earnings for the year or, where applicable, the change in equity.
The Groups own use contracts are excluded from the sensitivity analysis as they are outside the scope of IAS 39.
Such contracts to buy or sell non financial items can be net settled but were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non financial item in accordance with the business units expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
The sensitivity does not include the impact arising from derivatives held by equity accounted units.
Including equity accounted units primarily impacts the sensitivity to a 10% increase in aluminium prices and would result in a US$37 million reduction in net earnings 2011: US$85 million.
iv Credit risk TREASURY MANAGEMENT POLICY Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities primarily from customer receivables and from its financing activities, including investments in government securities, deposits with banks and financial institutions, other short term investments, interest rate and currency derivative contracts and other financial instruments.
CREDIT RISKS RELATED TO RECEIVABLES Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to Rio Tintos established policy, procedures and controls relating to customer credit risk management.
Credit limits are established for all customers based on internal or external rating criteria.
Where customers are rated by an independent credit rating agency, these ratings are used to set credit limits.
In circumstances where no independent credit rating exists, the credit quality of the customer is assessed based on an extensive credit rating scorecard.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any credit concerns highlighted to senior management.
High risk shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters of credit or other forms of credit insurance.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had approximately 80 customers 2011: 108 customers that owed the Group more than US$5 million each and these balances accounted for approximately 68 per cent 2011: 76 per cent of all receivables owing.
There were 25 customers 2011:46 customers with balances greater than US$20 million accounting for just over 48 per cent 2011: just over 55 per cent of total amounts receivable.
Note 18 provides details of trade and other receivables past due but not impaired.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets refer to table of financial assets and liabilities reported above.
The Group does not hold collateral as security for any trade receivables.
CREDIT RISK RELATED TO FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CASH DEPOSITS Credit risk from investments in government securities primarily US Government treasuries and funds or AAA rated money market funds and balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by Group Treasury in accordance with a Board approved policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty mainly based upon specific assessment criteria.
Counterparty credit limits are reviewed by the Rio Tinto Board at least annually.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of credit risk and therefore mitigate the potential for financial loss through counterparty failure.
The maximum credit risk exposure of the Groups financial assets at the balance sheet date is as follows: 2012 2011 Note US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 22 7,082 9,670 Trade and other receivables 18 6,338 6,738 Investments 21 432 738 Derivative assets 21 403 478 Total 14,255 17,624 v Liquidity and Capital risk management Management policy The Groups overriding objective when managing capital is to safeguard the business as a going concern whilst maximising returns for the companies shareholders.
In practice, this involves regular reviews by the Board and senior management.
These reviews take into account the Groups strategic priorities, economic and business conditions and opportunities that are identified to invest across all points of the commodities cycle, and the focus on the progressive dividend policy, whilst also striving to maintain the Groups single A credit rating.
The resulting capital structure provides the Group with a high degree of financial flexibility at a low cost of capital.
To maintain a single A credit rating, the Group considers various financial metrics including the overall level of borrowings and their maturity profile, liquidity levels, total capital, cash flow, EBITDA and interest cover ratios either on a statutory reported basis or as expected to be adjusted by the credit rating agencies.
190 190 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements The Groups total capital, which is defined as equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto plus equity attributable to non-controlling interests plus net debt, amounted to US$77 billion at 31 December 2012 2011: US$68 billion.
2012 2011 Total capital US$m US$m Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto see Group statement of financial position 46,865 52,539 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests see Group statement of financial position 11,156 6,669 Net debt note 25 19,261 8,451 Total capital 77,282 67,659 Net debt is a measure used by management and the Board of Directors to manage the Groups capital structure and liquidity risks and therefore is linked to the Groups financial and operational excellence strategic driver.
It is also used to manage the Groups interest rate risks and foreign exchange risks on borrowings and cash.
Net debt is disclosed and defined in note 25.
Net debt increased from US$8.5 billion at 31 December 2011 to US$19.3 billion at 31 December 2012 as operating cash inflows were offset by outflows relating to capital expenditure, acquisitions, the increase in the dividend and the share buy-back programme.
Net debt to total capital was 25 per cent at 31 December 2012 2011: 12 per cent and interest cover was 13 times 2011: 27 times.
The unified credit status of the Group is maintained through cross guarantees whereby contractual obligations of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are automatically guaranteed by the other.
The table below summarises the credit ratings attributed to the Group as at 31 December.
During 2011, the Groups long term rating was upgraded from BBB to Aand the outlook changed from positive to stable by Standard & Poors.
In February 2013, Standard & Poor revised their outlook from stable to negative.
2012 2011 Standard & Poors S&P Long term rating AAShort term rating A-2 A-2 Outlook Stable Stable Moodys Long term rating A3 A3 Short term rating P-2 P-2 Outlook Stable Stable The Group has access to various forms of financing including its US Shelf Programme, European Debt Issuance Programme, Commercial Paper and credit facilities.
In March 2012, under its US Shelf Programme, the Group issued four Rio Tinto Finance USA Plc bonds amounting to a US$500 million 1.125% bond due 2015, a US$500 million 2.0% bond due 2017, a US$1,000 million 3.5% bond due 2022 and a US$500 million 4.75% bond due 2042.
In August 2012, the Group issued three Rio Tinto Finance USA plc bonds amounting to a US$1,250 million 1.625% bond due 2017, a US$1,000 million 2.875% bond due 2022 and a US$750 million 4.125% bond due 2042.
In December 2012, under its European Debt Issuance Programme, the Group issued three Rio Tinto Finance plc bonds amounting to a EUR750 million 2.0% bond due 2020, a EUR500 million 2.875% bond due 2024 and a GBP500 million 4.0% bond due 2029.
The Euro denominated bonds were swapped using cross currency interest rate swaps to US dollar floating rate bonds and the GBP bond was swapped to a US dollar fixed rate bond.
In May 2011, the Group issued three Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited bonds amounting to a US$700 million 2.5% bond due 2016, a US$1,000 million 4.125% bond due 2021 and a US$300m 5.2% bond due 2040.
This was followed by the issuance of three further Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited bonds in September 2011 amounting to a US$500 million 2.25% bond due 2016, a US$1,150 million 3.75% bond due 2021 and a US$350 million 5.2% bond due 2040.
During the last quarter of 2012, the Group entered into bi-lateral bank facility agreements amounting to US$2 billion in aggregate.
The facilities are denominated in US dollars and have a term of one year that is extendable, at the Groups option, by a further 364 days.
At 31 December, the facilities were undrawn.
Any borrowings under each facility are at prevailing LIBOR rates plus an agreed margin dependent on the amount of drawdown and the credit rating of the Group.
The facilities are not subject to financial covenants.
In November 2010, the Group entered into a US$6 billion multi-currency committed revolving credit facility maturing in November 2015 with its relationship banks.
At 31 December 2012, the facility was undrawn.
Any borrowings under this facility are at prevailing LIBOR rates plus an agreed margin dependent on the amount of drawdown and the credit rating of the Group.
The facility is not subject to any financial covenants.
The overall agreement also enables same day access to a US$ swing-line facility.
The funds available under the facility agreement may be used for general corporate purposes of the Group.
In February 2011, the Group commenced a US$5 billion share buy-back programme which, subject to market conditions, was intended to be completed by the end of 2012.
In August 2011, the share buy-back programme was increased by US$2 billion to US$7 billion and the completion date accelerated to March 2012.
At 31 December 2011, 91 million Rio Tinto plc shares had been bought back at a total cost of US$5.5 billion.
During 2012 a further 26 million Rio Tinto plc shares were bought back at a total cost of US$1.5 billion.
In 2011, Oyu Tolgoi LLC OT received additional funding through shareholder loans from wholly owned subsidiaries of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. Turquoise Hill, formerly Ivanhoe Mines Limited, an EAU in 2011 which amounted to US$2.2 billion.
Of this funding, Turquoise Hill an EAU in 2011 was funded US$1.7 billion by Rio Tinto.
Turquoise Hill became a subsidiary during 2012.
For further details, refer to note 38 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses.
com 191 191 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 31 Financial instruments and risk management continued A c Financial liability analysis The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities by relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the statement of financial position date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances will not necessarily agree with the amounts disclosed in the statement of financial position.
At 31 December 2012 Within 1 year Between Between Between Between After or on demand 1 and 2 years 2 and 3 years 3 and 4 years 4 and 5 years 5 years Total Outflows Inflows US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 7,612 147 7,759 Borrowings before swaps 2,199 2,627 1,798 1,342 2,054 16,328 26,348 a Expected future interest payments 1,072 970 878 847 821 6,891 11,479 Other financial liabilities 49 90 31 5 5 180 c Derivative financial liabilities a Derivatives related to net debt net settled a Derivatives related to net debt gross settled : gross inflows 80 80 80 80 80 1,359 1,759 gross outflows 71 71 71 71 71 1,297 1,652 Total 10,923 3,825 2,698 2,185 2,871 23,157 45,659 At 31 December 2011 Within 1 year Between Between Between Between After or on demand 1 and 2 years 2 and 3 years 3 and 4 years 4 and 5 years 5 years Total Outflows Inflows US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 7,724 397 8,121 Borrowings before swaps 1,264 1,226 2,696 1,056 1,233 13,492 20,967 a Expected future interest payments 1,093 830 713 630 606 4,794 8,666 Other financial liabilities 246 255 27 15 16 4 563 c Derivative financial liabilities a, b Derivatives related to net debt net settled 1,400 1 1,401 a Derivatives related to net debt gross settled : gross inflows gross outflows Total 11,727 2,709 3,436 1,701 1,855 18,290 39,718 a Interest payments have been projected using interest rates applicable at 31 December.
Where debt is subject to variable interest rates, future interest payments are subject to change in line with market rates.
b In 2011, Turquoise Hill formerly Ivanhoe Mines Limited was treated as an EAU.
In this financial year, the Group agreed to provide Turquoise Hill with an interim loan facility of US$1,800 million while Rio Tinto and Turquoise Hill work together to complete project financing for the development of the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project.
At 31 December 2011, US$1,399 million of the facility remained undrawn and was reflected in amounts due within 1 year or on demand.
During 2012, the company became a subsidiary and the facility is now reported as an intragroup borrowing.
c The maturity grouping is based on the earliest payment date.
d The maximum carrying value of borrowings repayable, after the impact of swaps, in any financial year is US$2.7 billion 2011: US$2.7 billion.
192 192 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements B Derivative financial instruments The Groups derivatives, including embedded derivatives, as at 31 December 2012, are summarised below: Total fair Value 2012 2011 Asset Liability Asset Liability Derivatives designated as hedges US$m US$m US$m US$m a Copper forward contracts 210 b Aluminium forward contracts 72 c Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts 10 14 d Interest rate swaps 346 341 1 e Cross currency interest rate swaps 44 Total derivatives designated as hedges 356 44 427 211 Derivatives not designated as hedges US$m US$m US$m US$m Currency forward contracts and swaps 4 4 22 6 b Aluminium forward contracts 17 10 19 34 c Aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts 25 15 1 15 c Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts 3 Other embedded derivatives 11 32 d Interest rate swaps 1 6 1 Currency options embedded in borrowing contracts 9 Total derivatives not designated as hedges 47 49 51 88 Total derivative instruments 403 93 478 299 Analysed by maturity: Less than 1 year 25 23 120 184 Between 1 and 5 years 73 17 104 115 More than 5 years 305 53 254 Total 403 93 478 299 Total net derivative instruments 310 179 2011 2012 Reconciliation to statement of financial position US$m US$m non-current assets note 21 378 358 current assets note 21 25 120 current liabilities note 23 23 184 non-current liabilities note 23 70 115 Total net derivatives instruments, detailed above 310 179 a The copper forward contracts were entered into as a condition of the refinancing of Palabora in 2005, and to reduce the Groups exposure to movements in the copper price.
The balance at 31 December 2012 is included within assets held for sale see note 20. b The aluminium forward contracts were entered into to convert aluminium sales made at a fixed price to LME cash and to hedge the sales from high cost smelters.
The ineffective portion arising from cash flow hedges recognised in the income statement was a gain of US$6 million pre tax.
The aluminium forward contracts which were taken out to convert aluminium sales made as a fixed price to LME cash are not designated as hedges as they largely offset.
c Aluminium embedded derivatives forward contracts and options are contained within certain aluminium smelter electricity purchase contracts.
These contracts reduce the Groups exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
d The interest rate swaps are used to convert certain fixed rate borrowings to a floating rate.
For further details, see note 23 Borrowings and other financial liabilities.
e The cross currency interest rate swaps are used to convert non US dollar denominated borrowings to either fixed or floating US dollar borrowings.
For further details see note 23 Borrowings and other financial liabilities.
com 193 193 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 31 Financial instruments and risk management continued C Fair values The carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates their fair value at 31 December are shown in the following table.
The fair values of the Groups cash, short term borrowings and loans to equity accounted units approximate their carrying values as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest see note 1 p. 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Carrying Carrying value Fair value value Fair value US$m US$m US$m US$m Short term borrowings note 23 2,205 2,224 1,263 1,265 Medium and long term borrowings note 23 24,463 27,260 20,185 21,863 C a Valuation hierarchy The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2012: Not held a b c Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 at fair value Assets Equity shares and quoted funds note 21 476 300 16 160 Other investments, including loans note 21 432 136 6 118 172 908 436 22 278 172 d Derivatives Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B 10 10 Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges Section B 6 4 2 Derivatives related to net debt Section B 294 294 1,218 436 320 290 172 The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2011: Not held a b c Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 at fair value Assets Equity shares and quoted funds note 21 702 643 14 45 Other investments, including loans note 21 738 145 193 400 1,440 788 14 238 400 d Derivatives Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B 124 138 14 Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges Section B 42 1 32 11 Derivatives related to net debt Section B 345 345 1,619 789 189 241 400 a Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
This category includes listed equity shares and other quoted funds.
b Valuation is based on inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active or either directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
c Valuation is based on inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
d The net asset or liability derivative balance for the three different categories reconcile to the net asset and liability balances presented in B.
C b Level 3 Financial assets and Financial liabilities The table below shows the summary of changes in the fair value of the Groups level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities for the year ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011.
31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Level 3 financial assets Level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities and financial liabilities Opening balance 241 185 Currency translation adjustments 2 2 Realised gains to income statement 17 17 Unrealised losses to income statement 1 30 Unrealised losses to comprehensive income 18 14 Additions 17 6 Disposals 75 9 Closing balance 183 241 Total losses for the year included in the income statement for assets and liabilities held at year end 17 26 194 194 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 32 Contingent liabilities and commitments 2012 2011 US$m US$m a Capital commitments including those related to joint ventures and associates Within 1 year 11,487 9,700 Between 1 and 3 years 1,399 3,300 Between 3 and 5 years 127 41 After 5 years 38 Total 13,051 13,041 a Capital commitments incurred by the Group relating to joint ventures and associates amount to US$1,180 million 2011: US$215 million.
Capital commitments incurred jointly with other venturers Rio Tinto share relating to joint ventures amount to US$208 million 2011: US$1,260 million.
Operating leases The aggregate amount of minimum lease payments under non cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Within 1 year 415 523 Between 1 and 3 years 690 766 Between 3 and 5 years 555 564 After 5 years 852 1,052 2,512 2,905 Unconditional purchase obligations The aggregate amount of future payment commitments for the next 5 years under unconditional purchase obligations outstanding at 31 December was: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Within 1 year 2,700 2,578 Between 1 and 2 years 2,321 2,080 Between 2 and 3 years 2,428 1,748 Between 3 and 4 years 2,239 1,631 Between 4 and 5 years 2,040 1,580 After 5 years 12,822 12,303 24,550 21,920 Unconditional purchase obligations relate to commitments to make payments in the future for fixed or minimum quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices.
The future payment commitments set out above have not been discounted and mainly relate to commitments under take or pay power and freight contracts.
They exclude unconditional purchase obligations of jointly controlled entities, apart from those relating to the Groups tolling arrangements.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Contingent liabilities excluding those relating to joint ventures and associates a Indemnities and other performance guarantees 766 706 b Contingent liabilities relating to joint ventures and associates Share of contingent liabilities of joint ventures and associates 225 Incurred in relation to interests in joint ventures 309 147 Incurred in relation to other venturers contingent liabilities 64 78 a Indemnities and performance guarantees represent the potential outflow of funds from the group for the satisfaction of obligations under contractual arrangements for example undertakings related to rehabilitation activities and supplier agreements not provided for in the statement of financial position, where the likelihood of the guarantees or indemnities being called is assessed as possible rather than probable or remote.
b Amounts disclosed include those arising as a result of the Groups investments in both jointly controlled assets and jointly controlled entities.
There are a number of legal claims currently outstanding against the Group.
No material loss to the Group is expected to result from these claims.
Employee numbers for proportionally consolidated and equity accounted units are proportional to the Groups interest.
Average employee numbers include a part year effect for companies acquired or disposed of during the year.
Part time employees are included on a full time equivalent basis.
Temporary employees are included in employee numbers.
People employed by contractors are not included.
196 196 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 34 Principal subsidiaries and consolidated operations At 31 December 2012 Proportion of Group interest Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities Class of shares held class held % % Australia Ordinary 100 100 Argyle Diamond Limited Mining and processing of diamonds a Ordinary 80 80 Coal & Allied Industries Limited Coal mining Dampier Salt Limited Salt production Ordinary 68.40 68.40 Energy Resources of Australia Limited Uranium mining Class A 68.39 68.39 Ordinary 100 100 Hamersley Iron Pty Limited Iron ore mining b Ordinary 100 100 Queensland Coal Pty Limited Coal mining Ordinary 100 100 Rio Tinto Aluminium Holdings Limited Bauxite mining: alumina production: primary aluminium smelting Canada Common shares 100 100 Rio Tinto Canada Uranium Corporation Uranium projects c Iron Ore Company of Canada Inc. Iron ore mining: iron ore pellets Common shares 58.72 58.72 QIT-Fer et Titane Inc. Titanium dioxide feedstock: Common shares 100 100 high purity iron and steel Class B preference 100 100 shares CAD 0.01 preferred shares 100 100 Common shares 100 100 Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. Bauxite mining: alumina refining: production of specialty alumina: aluminium smelting: engineered products d Common 50.82 50.82 Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd Copper and gold mining Guinea Common 95 50.35 Simfer S. A.
Iron ore project Madagascar e QIT Madagascar Minerals SA Ilmenite mining 80 85 Mongolia f 33.54 Oyu Tolgoi LLC Copper and gold mining in development Mozambique g Common shares 100 100 Riversdale Mining Limited Coal mining in development and exploration Namibia h B N$1 71.16 Rssing Uranium Limited Uranium mining 68.58 } C N10c 70.59 South Africa Ordinary R1 72.90 57.70 Palabora Mining Company Limited Copper mining, smelting and refining i B Ordinary 100 Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited Titanium dioxide high purity iron production B preference 100 74 } BHP Billiton preference 100 i B Ordinary 100 Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited Ilmenite, rutile and zircon mining B Preference 100 74 } BHP Billiton preference 100 United States of America Common US$0.01 100 100 Kennecott Holdings Corporation including Copper and gold mining, smelting and refining, Kennecott Utah Copper, Kennecott Land land development and exploration activities and Kennecott Exploration Common US$0.10 100 100 U. S. Borax Inc. Mining, refining and marketing of borates The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those companies that have a more significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group.
The Groups principal subsidiaries are mostly held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a Of the Groups 80 per cent interest in Coal & Allied Industries Limited, an indirect share of 4.29 per cent, purchased during 2011, is held through its investment in an equity accounted unit.
b Queensland Coal Pty Limited is the main legal entity that owns the shares shown in note 37 of Hail Creek, Blair Athol, Clermont and Kestrel.
c This entity is incorporated in the United States of America but operates in Canada.
d The Group obtained a controlling 51 per cent stake in Ivanhoe Mines Limited Ivanhoe on 24 January 2012.
Ivanhoe was renamed Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. Turquoise Hill on 2 August 2012.
Refer to note 38 for further details relating to the consolidation of Turquoise Hill.
e The Groups shareholding in QIT Madagascar Minerals SA carries 80 per cent of the total voting rights through common shares.
The Group owns 85 per cent of the capital of QIT Madagascar Minerals SA through common shares and investment certificates certificats dinvestissement.
f The Group holds no direct equity interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC OT.
This entity is consolidated by virtue of contractual rights which permit the exercise of control over certain policies and activities of OT.
The Group interest of 33.54 per cent arises through its 51 per cent investment in Turquoise Hill: Turquoise Hill owns 66 per cent of OT.
g This entity is incorporated in Australia but operates in Mozambique.
h The Groups shareholding in Rssing Uranium Limited carries 35.54 per cent of the total voting rights.
Rssing is consolidated by virtue of Board control.
i Additional classes of shares issued by Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited and Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited representing non-controlling interests are not shown.
The Groups total legal and beneficial interest in Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited and Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited is 74 per cent.
com 197 197 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 35 Principal jointly controlled entities At 31 December 2012 Number of Class of Proportion of Group interest Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held shares held class held % % Australia a 153,679,560 Ordinary 59.4 59.4 Boyne Smelters Limited Aluminium smelting a Queensland Alumina Limited Alumina production 1,769,600 Ordinary 80 80 Chile b Minera Escondida Limitada Copper mining and refining 30 30 Mozambique a c 474,591,847 Class A 65 65 Rio Tinto Benga Mauritius Limited Coal mining in development and exploration 65 Management 65 65 New Zealand a 24,998,400 Ordinary 79.4 79.4 New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited Aluminium smelting Norway 500,000 Ordinary B 50 50 Sor-Norge Aluminium A. S. Aluminium smelting Oman 37,500 Ordinary 20 20 Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. Aluminium smelting power generation United States of America Halco Mining Inc. d 4,500 Common 45 45 Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. e 100 Common 50 50.3 } 1 Preferred 100 The Group has joint control of the above operations which are independent legal entities and therefore includes them in the financial statements using the equity accounting method.
The Group comprises a large number of operations and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those jointly controlled entities that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups principal jointly controlled entities are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
With the exception of footnotes c to e, all jointly controlled entities operate mainly in the countries in which they are incorporated.
a While the Group holds more than a 50 per cent interest in these entities, other participants have veto rights over operating, financing and strategic decision making.
Accordingly, the Group does not have the ability to unilaterally control, and therefore does not consolidate these entities.
b The year end of Minera Escondida Limitada is 30 June.
However, the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements of Rio Tinto are based on accounts of Minera Escondida Limitada that are coterminous with those of the Group.
c This entity is incorporated in Mauritius but operates mainly in Mozambique, where it has a 100% interest in Riversdale Mozambique Limitada, a coal mine located in Tete, Mozambique.
d Halco has a 51 per cent indirect interest in Compagnie des Bauxites fide Guine, a bauxite mine, the core assets of which are located in Guinea.
e Pechiney Reynolds Quebec has a 50.1 per cent interest in the Aluminerie fide Becancour aluminium smelter, which is located in Canada.
36 Principal associates At 31 December 2012 Number of Class of Proportion of Group interest Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held shares held class held % % Brazil a Minerao Rio do Norte S. A. Bauxite mining 25,000,000 Ordinary 12.5 12 } 47,000,000 Preferred 11.8 Cameroon Compagnie Camerounaise fide lAluminum Aluminium smelting 1,623,127 Ordinary 46.7 46.7 The Groups principal associates are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
The list therefore only includes those associates that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
a Minerao Rio do Norte S. A. is accounted for as an associated company because the Group has significant influence through representation on its Board of Directors.
198 198 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 37 Principal jointly controlled assets and other proportionally consolidated units At 31 December 2012 Name and country of operation Principal activities Group interest % Australia Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture Aluminium smelting 51.6 a Bengalla Coal mining 32 b Blair Athol Coal Coal mining 71.2 Clermont Coal Coal mining 50.1 Hail Creek Coal mining 82 Kestrel Coal mining 80 c Mount Thorley Coal mining 64 d Warkworth Coal mining 44.5 Northparkes Mine Copper gold mining and processing 80 Gladstone Power Station Power generation 42.1 e Robe River Iron Associates Iron ore mining 53 Hope Downs Joint Venture Iron ore mining 50 Brazil Consrcio fide Alumnio Maranho Alumina production 10 Canada Alouette Aluminium production 40 Diavik Mining and processing of diamonds 60 Indonesia Grasberg expansion Copper and gold mining 40 The Group comprises a large number of operations, and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those proportionally consolidated units that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups proportionally consolidated units are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a The Group owns a 40 per cent interest in Bengalla through its 80 per cent investment in Coal and Allied, giving a beneficial interest to the Group of 32 per cent.
b The Group has a direct interest of 57.2 per cent in Blair Athol Coal, and an additional 14 per cent interest through its investment in an equity accounted unit.
c The Group owns an 80 per cent interest in Mount Thorley through its 80 per cent investment in Coal and Allied, giving a beneficial interest to the Group of 64 per cent.
d The Group owns an 55.6 per cent interest in Warkworth through its 80 per cent investment in Coal and Allied, giving a beneficial interest to the Group of 44.5 per cent.
e The Group holds 65 per cent of Robe River Iron Associates, of which 30 per cent is held through a 60 per cent owned subsidiary.
The Groups net beneficial interest is therefore, 53 per cent, net of amounts attributable to outside equity shareholders.
38 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses 2012 Acquisitions Consolidation of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. formerly Ivanhoe Mines Limited excluding Oyu Tolgoi LLC On 17 January 2012, Rio Tinto exercised its subscription right for anti-dilution.
The subscription right entitled Rio Tinto to be issued 439,216 new shares in Ivanhoe Mines Limited Ivanhoe at a price of approximately US$19.38 per share, for total consideration of US$8 million, increasing the Groups share in Ivanhoe to 48.97 per cent from the 48.94 per cent ownership at 31 December 2011 after dilutive activity.
On 24 January 2012 the acquisition date, Rio Tinto purchased 15,100,000 shares of Ivanhoe from the market, two sellers in a privately negotiated share purchase transaction, to increase its holding in Ivanhoe from 48.97 per cent to 51.01 per cent.
The shares were purchased for an aggregate of US$299 million C$302 million at a price per share of US$19.79 C$20.00.
After completion of the share purchase, Rio Tinto owned 377,397,658 common shares in Ivanhoe.
The 24 January 2012 acquisition gave Rio Tinto control of the assets in Ivanhoe other than those relating to Oyu Tolgoi LLC OT the non OT assets.
The non OT assets are primarily copper, gold and coal mining properties along with other exploration properties.
The Group had previously gained control of OT in December 2010 by virtue of its contractual rights which permit it to exercise control over certain policies and activities of OT.
Rio Tintos move to a majority stake in Ivanhoe reinforced its commitment to developing OT as a low cost, long life asset in a sustainable and mutually beneficial manner with the Government and people of Mongolia.
On 2 August 2012, Ivanhoe was renamed Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. Turquoise Hill.
100 per cent of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Ivanhoe not related to OT were consolidated from 24 January 2012. r riotint iotintoo.
com 199 199 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 38 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses continued Provisional fair values on consolidation disclosed at 30 June 2012 have been revised to reflect new information that existed at the date of acquisition.
This has reduced Rio Tintos share of net assets by US$136 million with the corresponding entry being mainly represented by a US$129 million increase in the loss on consolidation.
Final fair values are disclosed below.
US$m Property, plant & equipment 1,115 Cash 693 Debt including embedded derivatives related to debt 377 Other assets and liabilities 481 Non-controlling interests 1,239 Goodwill 166 Net attributable assets including goodwill at the acquisition date 839 Total consideration: Fair value of the Groups previous interest in Turquoise Hill excluding OT 678 Cash price for additional two per cent interest 299 Less: cash price attributed to OT 78 Less: cash price attributed to loans receivable from less payable to Rio Tinto Group companies 60 Total 839 Reconciliation of loss on consolidation Fair value of the Groups previous interest in Turquoise Hill excluding OT 678 Book value of the Groups previous interest in Turquoise Hill excluding OT 845 Loss on consolidation 167 Reconciliation of amount included in the cash flow statement Cash price paid for additional two per cent interest 299 Less: Cash acquired on acquisition 693 Net cash inflow included in the acquisition of subsidiaries line in the cash flow statement 394 As required by IFRS 3, the identifiable assets and liabilities exclude balances receivable by Turquoise Hill from OT and balances payable to Rio Tinto by Turquoise Hill.
Under IFRS 3, such balances are deemed to be settled at acquisition as they eliminate on consolidation.
There was, however, no actual settlement of the balances and they remain due and payable.
The element of the US$299 million cost of the additional two per cent interest in Turquoise Hill acquired which is deemed to relate to these balances is included in the US$394 million cash inflow on the acquisition of subsidiaries line of the cash flow statement.
Shareholder loans of US$3.3 billion due from OT to Ivanhoe were included in the Groups external borrowings at 31 December 2011 and there were other less material balances between the non OT assets and Rio Tinto subsidiaries which were included in the Groups receivables and payables at 31 December 2011.
At the date of gaining control these amounts totalled US$2.9 billion and eliminated with the newly consolidated balances of Turquoise Hill.
Where applicable, the interest rate payable on these balances was determined to be a market rate and there was therefore no gain or loss on deemed settlement.
Non-controlling interests arise from the 49 per cent of the non OT assets of Turquoise Hill not owned by Rio Tinto and from the portions of the assets and liabilities of Turquoise Hill subsidiaries not owned 100 per cent by Turquoise Hill.
Non-controlling interests are recognised at their proportionate share of the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the companies in which they hold an interest.
Goodwill arising on consolidation of US$166 million comprises control premium of US$129 million and US$37 million calculated in accordance with the requirement in IFRS to recognise a deferred tax liability on the difference between the fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities and their tax base.
This goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.
For the period since consolidation of Ivanhoe excluding OT on 24 January 2012, sales revenue and results for the non OT assets were not material to the consolidated income statement.
The impact of consolidating the non OT assets on 1 January 2012 rather than 24 January 2012 would also not have been material.
Consolidation of Richards Bay Minerals On 7 September 2012, Rio Tinto increased its holding in Richards Bay Minerals RBM to 74 per cent with consolidation effective from 3 September 2012, following the completion of its acquisition of BHP Billitons entire interests in RBM including BHP Billitons 37 per cent indirect equity voting interests in the RBM operating companies.
The purchase price paid by Rio Tinto on completion was US$1.7 billion.
The acquisition price was US$1.9 billion before contractual adjustments for cash payments made by RBM to BHP Billiton since the acquisition trigger date of 1 February 2012.
This price includes US$0.6 billion for BHP Billitons 37 per cent indirect equity interest in the RBM operating companies, US$1.0 billion for a 50 per cent interest in outstanding RBM shareholder financing arrangements and US$0.3 billion for a royalty stream.
The acquisition was the result of BHP Billiton exercising a put option as at 1 February 2012, previously agreed with Rio Tinto as part of RBMs restructuring in 2009.
RBM is a South African mineral sands mining and processing operation located in Kwa-Zulu Natal.
It is one of the worlds lowest cost producers of titanium dioxide feedstock and has mineral resources to support 20 years of production.
Rio Tinto manages the RBM business and markets all of its products.
200 200 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements The remaining 26 per cent of RBM is owned by a consortium of local communities and businesses 24 per cent and RBM employees two per cent, in line with South Africas Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE legislation.
Fair values on consolidation are provisional and will be subject to further review during the 12 months from 3 September 2012, being the effective date of consolidation.
Provisional fair value US$m Property, plant & equipment 2,663 Inventory 792 Deferred tax liabilities 957 Borrowings 163 Cash less overdrafts 7 Other assets and liabilities 22 Non-controlling interests 224 Goodwill 811 Net attributable assets including goodwill at the acquisition date 2,937 Total consideration: Provisional fair value of the Groups previous interest in RBM 1,237 Option price 1,700 Total 2,937 Reconciliation of gain on consolidation Provisional fair value of the Groups previous interest in RBM 1,237 Book value of the Groups previous interest in RBM 258 Recycled currency translation 14 Gain on consolidation 965 Reconciliation of amount included in the Group cash flow statement Cash price paid under option 1,700 Add: Net overdrafts acquired on acquisition 7 Net cash outflow included in the acquisition of subsidiaries line in the Group cash flow statement 1,707 The majority of the goodwill arising on consolidation represents the amount calculated in accordance with the requirement in IFRS 3 to recognise a deferred tax liability on the difference between the provisional fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities and their tax base.
For accounting purposes, the BBBEE shareholders interest in RBM is treated as an equity option and has been included in the table of provisional fair values on that basis within the non-controlling interests line.
Sales revenue of US$372 million and loss after tax of US$134 million is included in the 2012 income statement from 3 September 2012.
In the period following consolidation of RBM, adjustments were made in respect of inventory on hand at the acquisition date which had been recognised at fair value on consolidation.
These adjustments, which included amounts relating to inventory sold since 3 September 2012, totalled a charge of US$186 million net of tax and have been excluded from Underlying earnings.
The pro forma consolidated results of the Group, if control had been gained on 1 January 2012, would have been US$51.9 billion sales revenue and the loss after tax would have been US$2.9 billion.
In preparing the pro forma results, revenue and costs have been included from 1 January 2012 and intragroup transactions have been eliminated.
A full year of depreciation has been charged on the provisional fair values determined at 3 September 2012.
The actual RBM inventory write down included in the Groups 2012 results has not been adjusted.
A full year of interest charge has been assumed on the acquisition cost.
Tax charge relief has been assumed where relevant.
com 201 201 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 38 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses continued 2011 and 2010 Acquisitions Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique formerly Riversdale Mining Limited On 8 April 2011 the acquisition date, Rio Tinto acquired a controlling 52.6 per cent interest in Riversdale Mining Limited Riversdale for US$1,713 million net of cash acquired.
Subsequent to the acquisition date, Rio Tinto continued to increase its interest in Riversdale and on 7 July 2011, its interest increased to 100 per cent: consideration paid for the remaining 47.4 per cent was US$1,977 million.
Riversdale was delisted on 7 July 2011 and subsequently renamed Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique RTCM.
Due to the mutual proximity of the dates of individual increases in Rio Tintos shareholding prior to the acquisition date, the transactions were accounted for as an acquisition taking place in only two stages, first the acquisition of a controlling interest on 8 April 2011, and second the purchase of additional interests after the acquisition date.
Provisional fair values on consolidation were determined for RTCM at 30 June 2011.
The fair values were finalised by 8 April 2012, 12 months after the acquisition date.
Cash flows relating to the Groups purchase of its interest in RTCM during 2011 were allocated between investing and financing activities in accordance with the presentation requirements for staged acquisitions under IAS 7, Cash flow statements.
Hathor Exploration Limited During 2011, between April and October, Rio Tinto built up a 5.8 per cent interest in Hathor Exploration Limited Hathor, an uranium exploration company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
In October, an all cash offer was made for the remaining shares.
On 30 November 2011 the conditions of the offer were satisfied and Rio Tinto acquired a controlling interest of 70.2 per cent of Hathor.
By 31 December 2011 the Groups ownership had reached 88.0 per cent: by 12 January 2012 the remaining 12.0 per cent was acquired and Hathor has since been delisted from the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Due to the mutual proximity of the dates of individual increases in Rio Tintos shareholding subsequent to the acquisition date, and before the end of the year, these transactions were accounted for as taking place in one stage, at 30 November the acquisition date, resulting in an ownership interest of 88 per cent being recognised.
Fair values recognised on acquisition were finalised by 30 November 2012, 12 months after the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on acquisition comprised US$150 million, being Rio Tintos 88 per cent share of the amount calculated in accordance with IFRS to recognise a deferred tax liability on the difference between the provisional fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities with their tax base.
Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. formerly Ivanhoe Mines Limited During the year ended 31 December 2011, Rio Tinto increased its ownership of shares in Ivanhoe Mines Limited by 132.7 million 2010: 145.6 million, for aggregate consideration of US$1,860 million 2010: US$1,189 million, increasing its ownership from 40.3 per cent to 49.0 per cent 2010: from 19.7 per cent to 40.3 per cent.
Consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi On 15 December 2010, Rio Tinto consolidated provisional fair values relating to OT, following the signing of a new agreement with Ivanhoe, under which Rio Tinto obtained contractual control over certain policies and activities of OT.
No direct equity interest was acquired under the agreement and the existing equity arrangements were not changed as a result of the agreement.
OT is owned 66 per cent by Ivanhoe and 34 per cent by the Government of Mongolia.
The signing of the agreement did not affect the Government of Mongolias economic interest in OT.
The fair values were finalised by 15 December 2011, 12 months after the effective date of the agreement with Ivanhoe.
During the course of the year ended 31 December 2011, certain reallocations between balance sheet categories were identified as additional information became available.
An amount of US$1,087 million was reclassified to loans and borrowings, with corresponding adjustments of US$676 million to non-controlling interests and US$352 million to Investments in Equity Accounted Units.
The restatement arising from reallocation between balance sheet categories at 31 December 2010 resulted in an increase to Goodwill of US$20 million and a reduction of US$86 million to both the non-cash gain on consolidation recognised in the income statement, and to equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
Fair values have not been restated other than for the impact of the reallocation.
The reallocation did not result in an impairment.
Ivanhoe Mines Ltd In addition to the agreement described above, during the year ended 31 December 2010 Rio Tinto also entered into the transactions described below, in relation to its investment in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd Ivanhoe.
Ownership after transaction Shares Aggregate acquired Price per consideration Shares Date Description million Share C$ US$ million million % 1 March 2010 Share purchase 15.0 16.31 241 98.6 22.4 30 June 2010 Warrant exercise 46.1 US$8.54 393 144.7 29.6 13 September 2010 Debt facility conversion 40.1 US$10.00 a 184.8 34.9 13 September 2010 Anti-dilution warrants 0.6 3.15 2 185.4 34.9 15 December 2010 Series B warrants partial 33.8 US$8.88 300 219.2 38.6 15 December 2010 Share purchase from Robert Friedland 10.0 b 253 229.2 40.3 Total 145.6 1,189 a On 13 September 2010, Rio Tinto increased its ownership to 34.9 per cent following automatic conversion of the US$350 million convertible debt facility Rio Tinto made available to Ivanhoe in 2007, which was fully drawn down by mid 2008.
The outstanding principal and accrued interest US$400 million under the credit facility automatically converted on maturity into common shares at a price of US$10 per share.
b The Robert Friedland share purchase has a price equal to the simple average of the closing price of Ivanhoe shares in the NYSE on the 20 days preceding 8 December 2010.
202 202 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 2012 Disposals Alcan Cable On 21 May 2012, Rio Tinto reached an agreement to sell Alcan Cable to General Cable Corporation.
Divestment of the North American portion was completed on 5 September 2012 for US$171 million, with divestment of the Tianjin, China operation completing on 3 December 2012 for US$58 million.
Disposal proceeds include initial working capital adjustments.
Finalisation of working capital adjustment will take place in 2013.
Chalco Joint Venture and Settlement Agreement with Government of Guinea for the Simandou Iron Ore Project On 24 April 2012, Rio Tinto and Chinalcos listed subsidiary, Chalco, completed the formation of their joint venture the JV to develop and operate the Simandou iron ore project in Guinea, following the completion of all Chinese regulatory approvals.
To complete their earn in, a consortium led by Chalco made a payment of US$1.35 billion, in line with an agreement reached with Rio Tinto on 29 July 2010.
Rio Tinto and the Chalco consortium now hold a 53 per cent and 47 per cent interest respectively in the JV through their investment in Simfer Jersey Ltd. a Rio Tinto subsidiary: this translates into a 50.35 per cent and 44.65 per cent interest in the Simandou project, through the JVs 95 per cent interest in Simfer S. A. Simfer, the Rio Tinto subsidiary which currently undertakes the various aspects of the Simandou project.
The remaining five per cent is held by the International Finance Corporation, part of the World Bank.
Under the Settlement Agreement signed by Rio Tinto and the Government of Guinea GoG on 22 April 2011, the Government has an option to take an interest of up to 35 per cent in Simfer, which will undertake the mining portion of the Simandou project in stages over a 20 year period.
The Settlement Agreement also provides for the transfer of ownership of railway and port infrastructure from Simfer to a newly formed Infrastructure SPV InfraCo, with GoG entitled to take a 51 per cent interest in InfraCo.
The other Simfer participants will take up an interest in the remaining portion of InfraCo equity in proportion to their relative interests in Simfer.
The infrastructure will be transferred to GoG ownership after 25 to 30 years.
Simfer will retain its status as a foundation customer.
Certain provisions of the Settlement Agreement, including the GoG participation regime changes, require amendment to Simfers current mining convention Mining Convention, requires legislative ratification in order for these provisions to have full effect.
Both prior to and post participation by Chalco and GoG, Rio Tinto will retain control of Simfer and, therefore, the mining portion of the Simandou project.
As such, Rio Tinto will continue to consolidate its interest in Simfer as a subsidiary.
Contributions to funding made by Chalco to acquire its interest in the JV by purchasing a 47 per cent interest in Simfer Jersey Ltd during 2012, were credited to equity and included within financing cash flows in the Group cash flow statement.
The effect on the Group of the options granted to GoG will be recognised upon legislative ratification of the amendments to the Mining Convention discussed above.
The eventual basis of consolidation of InfraCo remains to be determined pending finalisation of the detailed infrastructure agreements.
Other disposals On 1 August 2012, Rio Tinto completed divestment of its Specialty Alumina businesses to H. I. G. and on 19 December 2012, sold the Lynemouth Power Station in the UK to RWE.
The terms of these transactions are confidential.
Together these disposals resulted in a post tax profit of US$16 million.
2011 Disposals Constellium formerly Alcan Engineered Products On 4 January 2011, Rio Tinto completed the divestment of 61 per cent of Alcan Engineered Products AEP to certain investment funds affiliated with Apollo Global Management, LLC Apollo and the Fonds Strategique dInvestissement FSI.
The terms of the transaction are confidential.
AEP was rebranded as Constellium on 3 May 2011.
Apollo is now the majority shareholder in Constellium formerly AEP with a 51 per cent stake in a new holding company for AEP, with the FSI holding 10 per cent.
Rio Tinto holds a 36 per cent stake and accounts for its interest in Constellium as an equity accounted unit.
Divestment of the talc business On 1 August 2011, Rio Tinto completed the divestment of its talc business to Imerys for gross consideration based on an enterprise value of US$340 million before any deductions or tax.
2010 Disposals Rio Tinto completed the sale of Alcan Packaging global pharmaceuticals, global tobacco, food Europe and food Asia divisions to Amcor for a total consideration of US$1,948 million on 1 February 2010.
The consideration was adjusted to exclude Medical Flexibles operations and to reflect actual business performance over the six months preceding completion.
Rio Tintos 75.7 per cent owned subsidiary Coal & Allied sold the Maules Creek project to Aston Resources, a private Australian company, for A$480 million US$427 million.
The sale was completed on 18 February 2010.
Coal & Allieds Vickery asset was sold to Whitehaven Coal ASX listed for A$31.5 million US$28 million, with an effective date of 4 February 2010.
The sale of the Alcan Packaging Food Americas division to Bemis Company Inc. for a total consideration of US$1.2 billion was completed on 1 March 2010.
On 5 July 2010, Rio Tinto completed the divestment of the remainder of its Alcan Packaging business with the closing of the sale of the Medical Flexibles business acquired by Amcor for US$66 million and of the sale of the Alcan Beauty Packaging business acquired by Sun European Partners LLP for an undisclosed sum.
com 203 203 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 39 Directors and key management remuneration Aggregate remuneration, calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, of the directors of the parent companies was as follows: 2012 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 US$000 Emoluments 11,165 10,145 11,384 Long term incentive plans 3,215 3,334 11,165 13,360 14,718 Pension contributions: defined contribution plans 66 61 54 Gains made on exercise of share options 1,668 17,265 The Group defines key management personnel as the directors and members of the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee comprises the executive directors, product group chief executive officers PGCEOs and Group executives.
The aggregate remuneration incurred by Rio Tinto plc in respect of its directors was US$7,357,000 2011: US$9,059,000: 2010: US$10,510,000.
The aggregate pension contribution to defined contribution plans was nil 2011: nil, 2010: nil.
The aggregate remuneration, including pension contributions and other retirement benefits, incurred by Rio Tinto Limited in respect of its directors was US$3,874,000 2011: US$4,362,000: 2010: US$4,262,000.
The aggregate pension contribution to defined contribution plans was US$66,000 2011: US$61,000: 2010: US$54,000.
During 2012, three directors 2011: three: 2010: three accrued retirement benefits under defined benefit arrangements, and one director 2011: one: 2010: one accrued retirement benefits under defined contribution arrangements.
Emoluments included in the table above have been translated from local currency at the average rate for the year with the exception of bonus payments which, together with amounts payable under long term incentive plans, have been translated at the year end rate.
Detailed information concerning directors remuneration, shareholdings and options is shown in the Remuneration report, including Tables 1 to 5, on pages 92 to 125 of the 2012 Annual report.
Aggregate compensation, representing the expense recognised under EU IFRS, of the Groups key management, including directors, was as follows: 2012 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 US$000 Short term employee benefits and costs 27,164 25,122 28,487 5,121 4,542 3,984 Post employment benefits 32,435 28,190 20,822 Share based payments 64,720 57,854 53,293 The figures shown above include employment costs which comprise social security and accident premiums in the UK and US and payroll taxes in Australia paid by the employer as a direct additional cost of hire.
In total, they amount to US$2,863,000 2011: US$2,010,000: 2010: US$2,020,000 and although disclosed here, are not included in Table 1 of the Remuneration report.
Alan Davies received an interest free advance of A$55,600 net for home sale assistance in accordance with the terms and conditions of his international secondment, prior to his appointment to the Executive Committee.
This advance is reimbursable to Rio Tinto if Mr Davies has not sold his home by 30 August 2014.
More detailed information concerning the remuneration of key management is shown in the Remuneration report, including Tables 1 to 5 on pages 114 to 125 of the 2012 Annual report.
204 204 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 40 Auditors remuneration f f Restated Restated 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m a Group Auditors remuneration Audit of the company 3.1 2.8 2.7 Audit of subsidiaries 14.1 11.6 13.0 Total audit 17.2 14.4 15.7 Audit related assurance services 1.5 1.1 1.0 b Other assurance services 3.8 3.3 9.9 Total assurance services 5.3 4.4 10.9 c Tax compliance 0.3 0.3 0.1 c Tax advisory services 0.4 1.2 0.4 Services related to corporate finance transactions not covered above services in connection with bond issues capital raising 0.6 0.5 0.3 services in connection with divestment programme 0.3 2.0 5.0 Other non-audit services not covered above 0.5 1.1 0.9 Total non-audit services 2.1 5.1 6.7 24.6 23.9 33.3 d Remuneration payable to other accounting firms Audit of the accounts of the Groups subsidiaries 2.9 2.6 2.6 c Taxation services 9.8 12.0 6.6 Financial systems design and implementation 0.5 0.8 Internal audit 9.5 10.5 6.5 Litigation services 0.1 0.3 0.4 e Other services 58.1 37.6 18.6 80.9 63.8 34.7 Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.1 0.1 81.0 63.9 34.7 a The remuneration payable to , the Group Auditors, is approved by the Audit committee.
The committee sets the policy for the award of non audit work to the auditors and approves the nature and extent of such work, and the amount of the related fees, to ensure that independence is maintained.
The fees disclosed above consolidate all payments made to member firms of  by the Companies and their subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the payments made by proportionally consolidated units.
Non-audit services arise largely from assurance and or regulation related work.
b Other assurance services are mainly related to carve-out financial statements, sustainability assurance and limited assurance over the Taxes paid report.
c Taxation services includes tax compliance and advisory services.
Tax compliance involves the preparation or review of returns for corporation, income, sales and excise taxes.
Tax advisory services includes advice on non recurring acquisitions and disposals, advice on transfer pricing and advice on employee global mobility.
d Remuneration payable to other accounting firms does not include fees for similar services payable to suppliers of consultancy services other than accountancy firms.
e Other services in 2012, 2011 and 2010 in respect of other accounting firms includes costs relating to capital raising, divestments and similar corporate services, pension fund and payroll administration, advice on accounting matters, secondments of accounting firms staff, forensic audit and other consultancy.
f Comparatives have been restated to include payments to accounting firms for global expatriate tax services which are recharged to the Group by our relocation consultants.
com 205 205 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 41 Related party transactions Information about material related party transactions of the Rio Tinto Group is set out below: Subsidiary companies and proportionally consolidated units Details of investments in principal subsidiary companies are disclosed in note 34.
Information relating to proportionally consolidated units can be found in note 37.
Equity accounted units Transactions and balances with equity accounted units are summarised below.
Purchases, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables relate largely to amounts charged by jointly controlled entities for toll processing of bauxite and alumina.
Sales relate largely to charges for supply of coal to jointly controlled marketing entities for onward sale to third party customers.
2012 2011 2010 Income statement items US$m US$m US$m Purchases from equity accounted units 3,687 4,211 3,009 Sales to equity accounted units 3,454 4,079 3,038 Cash flow statement items US$m US$m US$m Cash movement on EAU funded balances note 25 1,683 Net funding of equity accounted units 311 745 154 Statement of financial position items US$m US$m a Investments in equity accounted units note 15 5,312 9,833 Loans to equity accounted units 287 589 Loans from equity accounted units 183 3,472 Trade and other receivables: amounts due from equity accounted units note 18 1,393 1,374 Trade and other payables: amounts due to equity accounted units note 26 514 589 a Further information about investments in equity accounted units is set out in notes 35 and 36.
Pension funds Information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in note 46.
Directors and key management Details of directors and key management remuneration are set out in note 39 and in the Remuneration report on pages 92 to 125.
Safe mine access by company employees has not been possible since that time and an accurate assessment of the condition of the assets cannot therefore be made.
Considerable funding would be required to recommence operations to the level which applied at the time of the mines closure in 1989.
An Order of Magnitude study undertaken in 2008 indicates that costs in a range of US$2 billion to US$4 billion would be required to reopen the mine assuming all site infrastructure is replaced.
The directors consider that the Group does not currently realise a benefit from its interest in BCL and therefore BCL information continues to be excluded from the financial statements.
BCL reported a net loss of US$2 million for the financial year 2011: net loss of US$2 million.
This is based upon actual transactions for the financial year.
The aggregate amount of capital and reserves reported by BCL as at 31 December 2012 was US$137 million 2011: US$139 million.
The Group owns 215,920,089 shares in BCL, representing 53.8 per cent of the issued share capital.
The investment of US$195 million was fully provided against in 1991.
At 31 December 2012, the number of shares in BCL held by the Group, multiplied by the share price as quoted in the Australian Securities Exchange, resulted in an amount of US$111 million 2011: US$164 million.
44 Events after the statement of financial position date On 13 February 2013, Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. Turquoise Hill signed a binding agreement with Sumeru Gold BV for the sale of its 50 per cent interest in Altynalmas Gold Ltd Altynalmas, which was acquired with Turquoise Hill on 24 January 2012, for a total cash consideration of US$300 million.
Completion of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals from the Republic of Kazakhstans competent authorities.
Altynalmas owns the Kyzyl Gold Project in north eastern Kazakhstan.
The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2013.
Other than the items above, no events were identified after the statement of financial position date which could be expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
206 206 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 45 Share-based payments Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited the Companies have a number of share based payment plans, which are described in detail in the Remuneration report.
These plans have been accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The charge credit that has been recognised in the income statement for Rio Tintos share-based compensation plans, and the related liability for cash-settled plans, is set out in the table below.
Charge credit recognised Liability at the for the year end of the year 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Equity-settled plans 242 157 119 Cash-settled plans 3 1 5 2 2 Total 239 156 124 2 2 As noted in note 38, the Group gained control of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. Turquoise Hill, which is a publicly quoted company, from 24 January 2012.
Turquoise Hill has its own share based payment plans.
Turquoise Hill also has two publicly quoted subsidiaries, Ivanhoe Australia Limited and South Gobi Resources Limited which have their own share based payment plans.
The share based payment charge for all of these plans under Rio Tinto accounting policies and adjusted for acquisition accounting was US$76 million.
The 2012 charge reflected costs associated with management changes at Turquoise Hill in the first half of the year.
Such costs are not expected to recur.
The plans are not material to the Groups income statement or statement of financial position.
Turquoise Hill plans were not replaced with Rio Tinto plans on acquisition and as such their historical plans still apply.
The main Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans are as follows: Share Savings Plans Awards under these plans are settled in equity and accounted for accordingly.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant was estimated using a lattice-based option valuation model, including allowance for the exercise price being at a discount to market price.
No awards were granted under the Share Savings Plans in 2012 as these plans have been replaced by the Global Employee Share Plan.
Share Option Plan SOP The Group has a policy of settling awards made under the SOP in equity, although the directors at their discretion can offer a cash alternative.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled, share based payment transactions.
The performance conditions in relation to Total Shareholder Return TSR have been incorporated in the measurement of fair value for these awards by modelling the correlation between Rio Tintos TSR and that of the index.
The relationship between Rio Tintos TSR and the index was simulated many thousands of times to derive a distribution which, in conjunction with the lattice-based option valuation model, was used to determine the fair value of the options.
Share Ownership Plan The fair values of awards of Matching and Free Shares made by Rio Tinto are taken to be the market value of the shares on the date of purchase.
These awards are settled in equity.
The total fair value of shares awarded during the year was US$3 million 2011: US$3 million.
Performance Share Plan Participants are assigned shares in settlement of their awards and therefore the Plan is accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The fair value of the awards was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model taking into account the TSR performance conditions.
In each case fair values were adjusted for non receipt of dividends between grant date and date of vesting excluding awards for executive directors and product group CEOs.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards except for the 2009 awards which applied to senior executives only with no allowance for forfeitures.
Management Share Plan The Management Share Plan was introduced during 2007 to provide conditional share-based awards to management.
The vesting of these awards is dependent on service and or performance based conditions being met.
The awards will be settled in equity including the dividends accumulated from date of award to vesting.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share based payment transactions.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividends.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at five per cent per annum of outstanding awards.
Bonus Deferral Plan The Bonus Deferral Plan was originally introduced during 2009 for the mandatory deferral of the 2008 bonuses for executive directors, product group executives and for other executives.
Additional Bonus Deferral Awards were made in 2010 and 2011 for the mandatory deferral of 50 per cent of the bonuses for executive directors and product group executives and 10 per cent of the bonuses for other executives.
The vesting of these awards is dependent only on service conditions being met.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividends vesting.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards.
com 207 207 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 45 Share-based payments continued Lattice-based option valuation model The fair value of share options is estimated as at the date of grant using a lattice-based option valuation model.
The significant assumptions used in the valuation model are disclosed below.
Expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility of Rio Tintos share returns under the UK and Australian listings.
Historical data was used to estimate employee forfeiture and cancellation rates within the valuation model.
Under the Share Option Plans, it is assumed that after options have vested, 20 per cent per annum of participants will exercise their options when the market price is at least 20 per cent above the exercise price of the option.
Participants in the Share Savings Plans are assumed to exercise their options immediately after vesting.
The implied lifetime of options granted is derived from the output of the option valuation model and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding.
The risk-free rate used in the valuation model is equal to the yield available on UK and Australian zero-coupon government bonds for Rio Tinto plc and Limited options respectively at the date of grant with a term equal to the expected term of the options.
The key assumptions used in the valuations are noted in the table below: Risk-free Expected Dividend Forfeiture Implied interest rate volatility yield rates lifetime Awards made in 2012 % % % % Years Share Option Plan Rio Tinto plc 1.2 46.0 2.6 4.7 Rio Tinto Limited 4.0 37.0 2.1 5.4 Summary of options outstanding A summary of the status of the Companies equity-settled share option plans at 31 December 2012 is presented below.
Weighted Weighted average Aggregate average remaining intrinsic exercise price contractual value per option life 2012 Options outstanding at 31 December 2012 Number A$ Years US$m Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan 21 32 1,046,692 26.19 1.7 15 Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan A$48 A$67 1,770,782 53.65 2.0 24 Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan 10 43 3,306,883 24.47 5.3 63 Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan A$17 A$82 918,458 47.49 5.1 20 7,042,815 122 As at 31 December 2011 there were 8,475,949 options outstanding with an aggregate intrinsic value of US$117 million.
Options exercisable at 31 December 2012 Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan 10 23 1,999,254 15.59 3.4 63 Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan A$17A$55 664,632 36.89 4.1 21 2,663,886 84 As at 31 December 2012, there were no options 2011: no options exercisable under either the Rio Tinto plc or the Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plans.
The Management Share Plan, Performance Share Plan and Bonus Deferral Plan together represent 83% of the total IFRS2 charge for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans.
A summary of the status of these plans at 31 December is presented overleaf.
208 208 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements Performance Share Plan Rio Tinto plc Awards Rio Tinto Ltd Awards Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average fair value at fair value at fair value at fair value at grant date grant date grant date grant date 2012 2012 2011 2011 2012 2012 2011 2011 Number Number Number A$ Number A$ Non-vested shares at 1 January 2,473,203 33.67 2,475,349 27.37 1,204,561 71.24 1,289,576 57.09 Awarded 711,701 24.67 782,919 31.28 531,937 44.79 466,965 62.26 Forfeited 44,625 29.88 36,018 32.37 24,794 60.49 24,040 69.76 Failed performance conditions 358,026 40.69 366,574 10.49 126,498 89.65 254,234 28.96 Vested 76,708 35.08 382,473 10.35 43,430 82.61 273,706 28.64 Non-vested shares at 31 December 2,705,545 30.40 2,473,203 33.67 1,541,776 60.46 1,204,561 71.24 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average share price share price share price share price 2012 2012 2011 2011 2012 2012 2011 2011 Number Number Number A$ Number A$ Shares issued in respect of vested awards during the year 76,708 36.40 382,473 43.27 43,430 67.01 273,706 87.81 In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 2,405 Rio Tinto plc cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2012.
The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2012 was less than US$1 million 2011: less than US$1 million.
The total liability for the Rio Tinto plc awards at 31 December 2012 was less than US$1 million 2011: less than US$1 million and for Rio Tinto Limited awards was less than US$1million 2011: less than US$1million.
com 209 209 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 46 Post retirement benefits Description of plans The Group operates a number of pension and post retirement healthcare plans around the world.
Some of these plans are defined contribution and some are defined benefit, with assets held in separate trusts, foundations and similar entities.
Valuations of these plans are produced and updated annually to 31 December by qualified actuaries.
Pension plans The majority of the Groups pension obligations are in Canada, the UK, the US, Switzerland and the Eurozone.
There are some defined benefit obligations in Australia but the retirement arrangements there are predominantly defined contribution.
In general the Group has a policy of moving towards defined contribution plans.
A number of defined benefit pension plans are sponsored by the Canadian entities.
The two main plans are for salaried and bargaining employees.
Benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final average pay and closed to new entrants, while benefits for bargaining employees are reviewed in negotiation with unions.
There are a number of pension arrangements in the UK.
The defined benefit sections of these arrangements are linked to final pay and are closed to new members, with new employees being admitted to defined contribution sections.
A number of defined benefit pension plans are sponsored by the US entities.
In Europe, there are defined benefit plans in Switzerland, the Netherlands, Germany and France.
The largest single plan is in Switzerland and provides benefits linked to final average pay.
In Australia, the main arrangements are principally defined contribution in nature but there are sections providing defined benefits linked to final pay, typically paid in lump sum form.
The Group also operates a number of unfunded defined benefit plans, which are included in the figures below.
Post retirement healthcare plans Certain subsidiaries of the Group, mainly in the US and Canada, provide health and life insurance benefits to retired employees and in some cases to their beneficiaries and covered dependants.
Eligibility for cover is dependent upon certain age and service criteria.
These arrangements are generally unfunded, and are included in the figures below.
Plan assets The proportions of the total fair value of assets in the pension plans for each asset class at the statement of financial position date were: 2012 2011 Equities 49.1% 47.9% Bonds 37.8% 39.5% Property 8.0% 8.1% Other 5.1% 4.5% 100.0% 100.0% The assets of the plans are generally managed on a day-to-day basis by external specialist fund managers.
These managers may invest in the Groups securities subject to limits imposed by the relevant fiduciary committees and local legislation.
The approximate total holding of Group securities within the plans is US$47 million 2011: US$22 million.
210 210 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements Main assumptions rates per annum The main assumptions for the valuations of the plans under IAS 19 are set out below.
Information on the sensitivity of the results to the main assumptions is set out in the sensitivity section on page 214.
b The assumptions vary by location for the Other plans.
Assumptions shown are for Southern Africa.
c The inflation assumption shown for the UK is for the Retail Price Index.
The assumption for the Consumer Price Index at 31 December 2012 was 2.2 per cent 2011: 2.0 per cent.
The main financial assumptions used for the healthcare plans, which are predominantly in the US and Canada, were: discount rate: 4.0 per cent 2011: 4.3 per cent, medical trend rate: 6.7 per cent reducing to 5.1 per cent by the year 2018 broadly on a straight line basis 2011: 6.7 per cent, reducing to 5.0 per cent by the year 2017, claims costs based on individual company experience.
For both the pension and healthcare arrangements the post retirement mortality assumptions allow for future improvements in longevity.
The mortality tables used imply that a man aged 60 at the Statement of financial position date has a weighted average expected future lifetime of 25 years 2011: 25 years and that a man aged 60 in 2032 would have a weighted average expected future lifetime of 27 years 2011: 27 years.
The expected rate of return on pension plan assets is determined as managements best estimate of the long term returns of the major asset classes equities, bonds, property and other weighted by the allocation of assets among the categories at the measurement date.
The expected rates of return shown have been reduced to allow for plan expenses including, where appropriate, taxes incurred within pension plans on investment returns.
Based on the assumptions made and the distribution of assets the weighted average expected return on assets as at 1 January 2012 was 5.0 per cent 2011: 5.9 per cent.
Under the revised IAS 19 this assumption will not be needed for 2013.
The sources used to determine managements best estimate of long term returns are numerous and include country-specific bond yields, which may be derived from the market using local bond indices or by analysis of the local bond market, and country-specific inflation and investment market expectations derived from market data and analysts or governments expectations as applicable.
com 211 211 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 46 Post retirement benefits continued Total expense recognised in the income statement 2012 2011 2010 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m Current employer service cost for defined benefit plans 255 14 269 250 233 Interest cost 773 46 819 910 974 Expected return on assets 664 664 783 777 Past service cost 3 2 5 2 29 Gains on curtailment and settlement 28 6 34 61 111 Total defined benefit expense 339 56 395 318 348 Current employer service cost for defined contribution and industry-wide plans 349 2 351 286 225 Total expense recognised in the income statement 688 58 746 604 573 The above expense amounts are included as an employee cost within net operating costs.
In 2012, US$34 million pre-tax of curtailment and settlement gains relating to the sale of businesses have been excluded from Underlying earnings 2011: US$21 million, 2010: US$88 million.
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income before tax 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Actuarial losses 433 1,948 719 Loss on currency translation on plans using US dollar functional currency 67 Gain loss on application of asset limit 13 13 a Total loss recognised in other comprehensive income 420 1,961 786 Cumulative amount recognised in Other Comprehensive Income at 31 December 4,967 4,547 2,586 a There was no loss related to equity accounted units in 2012 2011: US$5 million loss: 2010: US$4 million loss.
Deficits surpluses in the plans The following amounts were measured in accordance with IAS 19 at 31 December: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Pension Other Total Total Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total fair value of plan assets 14,599 14,599 13,075 13,144 12,407 9,306 Present value of obligations funded 18,340 18,340 16,798 15,507 15,148 11,044 Present value of obligations unfunded 1,056 1,250 2,306 2,135 2,002 2,385 1,784 Present value of obligations total 19,396 1,250 20,646 18,933 17,509 17,533 12,828 Unrecognised past service cost 5 3 2 4 3 7 12 Effect of asset limit 13 19 Aggregate deficit to be shown in the statement of financial position 4,792 1,253 6,045 5,867 4,362 5,133 3,553 Comprising: Deficits 4,946 1,253 6,199 5,955 4,472 5,150 3,713 Surpluses 154 154 88 110 17 160 Net deficits on pension plans 4,792 4,792 4,660 3,238 3,803 2,648 Unfunded post retirement healthcare obligation 1,253 1,253 1,207 1,124 1,330 905 The surplus amounts shown above are included in the statement of financial position as Trade and other receivables.
Deficits are shown in the Statement of financial position as Post retirement benefits.
212 212 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements Contributions to plans Contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2012 totalled US$658 million 2011: US$610 million: 2010: US$1,036 million.
Contributions of US$329 million 2011: US$269 million: 2010: US$212 million were made to defined contribution arrangements and US$20 million 2011: US$16 million: 2010: US$12 million to industry-wide plans: these are charged against profits and are included in the figures for defined contribution current employer service costs shown on the previous page.
Contributions for other benefits totalled US$62 million 2011: US$72 million: 2010: US$79 million.
Contributions to defined benefit pension plans for 2013 are estimated to be around US$143 million more than for 2012.
This is kept under regular review and actual contributions will be determined in line with the Groups wider financing strategy.
Healthcare plans are generally unfunded and contributions for future years will be equal to benefit payments and therefore cannot be predetermined.
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation and in the fair value of assets The amounts shown below include, where appropriate, 100 per cent of the costs, contributions, gains and losses in respect of employees who participate in the plans and who are employed in operations that are proportionally consolidated or equity accounted.
Consequently, the costs, contributions, gains and losses may not correspond directly to the amounts disclosed above in respect of the Group.
Defined contribution plans and industry-wide plans are excluded from the movements below.
2012 2011 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in present value of obligation: Present value of obligation at start of the year 17,730 1,203 18,933 17,509 Current employer service cost 255 14 269 250 Interest cost 773 46 819 910 Contributions by plan participants 40 3 43 47 Experience gain 34 55 89 33 Changes in actuarial assumptions loss 1,243 111 1,354 1,674 Benefits paid 1,019 63 1,082 1,048 Arrangements divested 41 29 70 19 Inclusion of arrangements 16 16 2 Past service cost 1 3 4 3 Curtailments 28 6 34 61 Settlements 6 6 1 Currency exchange rate loss gain 482 7 489 300 Present value of obligation at end of the year 19,396 1,250 20,646 18,933 Gains and losses on obligations 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Experience gains losses : i. e. variances between the estimate of obligations and the subsequent outcome 89 33 146 139 37 As a percentage of the present value of the year end obligations 0% 0% 1% 1% 0% Change in assumptions loss gain US$m 1,354 1,674 1,207 1,671 1,684 2012 2011 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 13,075 13,075 13,144 Expected return on plan assets 664 664 783 Actuarial gain loss on plan assets 832 832 320 Contributions by plan participants 40 3 43 47 Contributions by employer 666 60 726 695 Benefits paid 1,019 63 1,082 1,048 Arrangements divested 13 13 5 Settlements 6 6 1 Currency exchange rate gain loss 360 360 220 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 14,599 14,599 13,075 Actual return on plan assets 1,496 463 r riotint iotintoo.
com 213 213 Notes to the 2012 financial statements continued 46 Post retirement benefits continued 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Difference between the expected and actual return on plan assets: Gain loss US$m 832 320 346 891 3,308 As a percentage of year end plan assets 6% 2% 3% 7% 36% Sensitivity The values reported for the defined benefit pension obligations are sensitive to the actuarial assumptions used for projecting future benefit payments and discounting those payments.
The approximate sensitivities to the principal assumptions used to measure the obligations are: Approximate increase decrease in obligations Pensions Other Assumption Change in assumption US$m US$m Discount rate increase of 0.5 percentage points 1,276 79 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 1,367 85 Inflation increase of 0.5 percentage points 682 38 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 651 35 Salary increases increase of 0.5 percentage points 139 4 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 135 4 Demographic allowance for future improvements participants assumed to have the mortality rates of in longevity individuals who are one year older 504 25 participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year younger 504 25 Post-retirement healthcare sensitivity to changes in assumptions An increase of one per cent in the assumed medical cost trend rates would increase the aggregate of the current service cost and interest cost components of the post retirement healthcare expense by US$4 million 2011: US$5 million: 2010: US$7 million, and increase the benefit obligation for these plans by US$74 million 2011: US$71 million: 2010: US$72 million.
A decrease of one per cent in the assumed medical cost trend rates would decrease the aggregate of the current service cost and interest cost components of the post retirement healthcare expense by US$4 million 2011: US$4 million: 2010: US$6 million, and decrease the benefit obligation for these plans by US$67 million 2011: US$60 million: 2010: US$62 million.
214 214 Rio T Rio Tinto 2012 into 2012 Annual r Annual rep eport ort Financial statements Financial statements 47 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures 2012 2011 As at 31 December A$m A$m Assets Current assets 4,710 11,319 Non-current assets 11,297 11,051 Total assets 16,007 22,370 Liabilities Current liabilities 1,116 14,255 Non-current liabilities 100 102 Total liabilities 1,216 14,357 Net assets 14,791 8,013 Shareholders equity Share capital 4,113 4,113 Available-for-sale investment revaluation reserve 4 Share based payments reserves 222 183 Capital reserves 536 536 Retained earnings 10,364 3,551 Total equity 14,791 8,013 Profit of the parent company 8,215 11,563 Total comprehensive income of the parent company 8,215 11,567 Contingent liabilities b Bank and other performance guarantees 27,307 18,669 a Prepared under Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
In relation to Rio Tinto Limited there are no significant measurement differences between AAS and EU IFRS.
b Bank and other performance guarantees relate principally to the obligations of subsidiary companies.
Pursuant to the DLC merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited issued deed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed contractual obligations incurred by the other or guaranteed by the other.
These guarantees are excluded from the figures above.
