Useful information Rio Tinto Limited Registered offices Computershare Investor Services Rio Tinto plc Pty Limited 2 Eastbourne Terrace GPO Box 2975 London Melbourne W2 6LG Victoria 3001 Registered in England No.
com 1800 813 292 New Zealand residents only, toll free: Rio Tinto Limited 0800 450 740 Level 33 Website: www.
com 120 Collins Street Melbourne Former Alcan Inc. shareholders Victoria 3000 Computershare Investor ABN 96 004 458 404 Services Inc. Telephone: 61 0 3 9283 3333 9th Floor Fax: 61 0 3 9283 3707 100 University Avenue Website: riotinto.
com Toronto, ON M5J 2Y1 Ontario Rio Tintos agent in the US is Cheree Finan, who may be Telephone: 1 514 982 7555 contacted at North American residents only, Rio Tinto Services Inc. toll free: 1 866 624 1341 80 State Street Website: www.
com Albany, NY 12207-2543 Investor Centre Investor Centre is Computershares free, secure, Shareholders self service website, where shareholders can Please refer to the Investor Centre of the manage their holdings online.
The website respective registrar if you have any queries enables shareholders to: about your shareholding.
r View share balances Rio Tinto plc r Change address details Computershare Investor Services PLC r View payment and tax information The Pavilions r Update payment instructions Bridgwater Road In addition, shareholders who register their Bristol email address on Investor Centre, can be BS99 6ZY notified electronically of events such as annual Telephone: 44 0 870 703 6364 general meetings, and can receive shareholder Fax: 44 0 870 703 6119 communications such as the annual report or UK residents only, notice of meeting electronically online.
freephone: 0800 435021 Rio Tinto plc shareholders Website: www.
co. uk riotinto Holders of Rio Tinto American Depositary Rio Tinto Limited shareholders Receipts ADRs www.
com Please contact the ADR administrator if you have any queries about your ADRs.
ADR administrator JPMorgan Chase & Co PO Box 64504 St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 Telephone: 1 651 453 2128 US residents only, toll free general: 800 990 1135 US residents only, toll free Global invest direct: 800 428 4237 Website: www.
com 232 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report This document is printed on Soporset Premium Offset, a paper containing 100% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, sustainable, FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Park is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral Company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001.
Design and production by Black Sun Plc www.
com reportingcentre2012 Get more information online Visit our reporting centre at riotinto.
com reportingcentre2012 r Find out more about our business and performance r View our full 2012 Annual review r View our full 2012 Sustainable development report Sustainable development Annual report Annual review riotinto.
com 2012 Reporting centre Annual review Annual report Sustainable development Pursuing greater value for shareholders Sam Walsh sets the context for Our 2012 suite of corporate reports presents a complete this years reports picture of how we have performed during the year and gives Watch the interview context to our actions and priorities.
2012 Annual review Highlights from around our business, including a summary of our 2012 performance Visit website Download PDF Pursuing greater value for shareholders Sitemap | Privacy | Cookies | Terms & Conditions | Help | AccessibilityStay up to date with us View our Annual and Sustainable development reports at riotinto.
com reportingcentre2012 Contents 2012 performance highlights The year in context 02 Underlying earnings Group overview 04 US$9.3bn Unlocking value 06 Net loss Interview with the chairman and the chief executive 08 after impairments of US$14.4bn Summary corporate governance 11 US$3.0bn Explaining our strategy 12 Cash flows from operations Our business model 14 US$16.5bn Sustainable development 16 Key performance indicators 18 Full year dividend per share Business review 19 US167 Aluminium 19 Sustainable operating cash cost saving target Copper 20 by end of 2014 Diamonds & Minerals 21 US$3bn Energy 22 All injury frequency rate Iron Ore 23 per 200,000 hours worked Summary Remuneration Report 24 0.67 Finance review and summary financial statements 30 Independent auditors statement 34 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity reduction compared with 2008 Financial calendar 35 5.1% Useful information 36 Global community contributions US$292m tonnes of our copper on the museums exterior 50 Adding value to the Natural History Museum of Utah The Natural History Museum of Utah at the Rio Tinto Center is adorned with more than 50 tonnes of copper from our nearby Bingham Canyon Mine.
We donated the metal as part of a US$15 million contribution to this local institution, which weve been proud to support for more than 30 years.
But were more than just a financial supporter of the museum.
We are also partners who share a passion for science, education and sustainability, and a commitment to our community.
Pursuing greater value for shareholders We are simplifying our organisation by focusing it around a single commitment: Page 12 sets out our strategy to deliver greater value for our shareholders.
To meet this commitment and build a business for the future, we are taking decisive action to increase focus, discipline and accountability.
We are improving how we manage our capital, rigorously evaluating investment opportunities against all competing uses for cash, to get the right balance.
We will only invest in new projects with attractive returns that are well above our cost of capital.
Our immediate priority is to improve the existing business.
We strive to be the best operators in the industry.
We continue to unlock efficiencies across our business, by improving operational effectiveness and aggressively reducing our costs, and we are on track to deliver on our high-quality growth projects during 2013.
The success of our company is underpinned by our world-class assets, Page 4 illustrates how our diverse portfolio outstanding people and the integrity with which we do business.
As always, positions us to deliver long-term value we are absolutely focused on safety and remaining true to our values.
Over the longer term, as emerging markets develop, our robust business will be well positioned to capitalise on further opportunities to create value.
com 1 The year in context Progress during volatility We receive a binding offer During 2012, we achieved some for our specialty significant milestones and reduced alumina business.
costs against the backdrop of A state-of-the-art changing commodity demand innovation centre andeconomic uncertainty.
opens in India to support development of our Mine of Formation of the the Future programme.
Simandou iron ore joint venture with Chalco completes following regulatory Strong growth in long-term demand approvals.
The world economy continues to face volatility in the wake of the global financial crisis.
Prices for some metals and minerals experienced large fluctuations in 2012 and, on average, were ten to 20 per cent lower than in 2011.
However, they remained high We agree to sell in a longer historical context.
Alcan Cable for US$229 million.
Supply constraints, in many cases, W We complet e complete the e the acquisition of uranium acquisition of uranium offset a weaker and more uncertain exploration company demand growth environment.
late in the year, several encouraging We move to a majority developments emerged, including stake in Ivanhoe Mines partial resolution of the US fiscal cliff which owns 66% of Oyu Tolgoi of 51%.
and increased momentum in the Chinese economy.
As global economic growth recovers, January industrialisation and urbanisation in March developing countries will continue to February drive underlying growth in commodities demand.
However, many risks remain, May which could derail a stabilisation of global activity, and we expect volatility to continue during 2013.
April We announce expansions in the Mine of the Future programme.
This includes US$518 million investment in the worlds first automated, long-distance heavy haul railway in the Pilbara.
Read more on our strategy on page 12 and at riotinto.
com reportingcentre2012 2 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review The London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games get under way.
All 4,700 gold, We are building on Rio Tintos strong silver and bronze medals are foundations to put the Group firmly on the made using metal from our Kennecott Utah Copper mine path for sustainable, long-term success.
in the US and the Oyu Tolgoi mine in Mongolia.
US$ 373m We reach a binding agreement to sell our interest in Palabora Mining Company for US$373 million.
We sign a binding agreement for the supply of electricity to the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold mine.
At the end of December, the concentrator is commissioned.
We launch myShare, December our first global employee share plan.
US$ 4.2bn November We double our stake in We commit an additional Richards Bay Minerals, US$4.2 billion a Tier 1 mineral sands business, to 74%.
Rio Tinto share to develop our iron ore projects in Western Australia and Guinea.
October September July & August June riotinto.
com 3 Group overview A diverse portfolio From our diverse portfolio we Aluminium Copper supply the metals and minerals Products: bauxite, alumina Products: copper, gold, silver and aluminium and molybdenum that help the world to grow.
We are present at every point in the development cycle, from the iron ore that builds the fundamental infrastructure of our cities, to the copper and borates in the smartphones that keep us connected.
Building on more than a century of experience Coppers malleability, strength and conductivity and expertise, Rio Tinto Alcan is a global leader make it useful in a range of building and electrical in the aluminium industry.
Our fully-integrated applications, and it is found in nearly every facilities include high-quality bauxite mines, home and vehicle.
Our Copper group is uniquely large-scale alumina refineries, and some of the positioned to deliver exceptional long-term value worlds lowest-cost, most  due to our high-quality assets, leading technology primary aluminium smelters.
Light, strong, and a keen focus on managing costs and improving flexible, non-corrosive and infinitely recyclable, efficiency.
In addition to its core product, we aluminium is one of the most widely used metals.
generate additional revenue from valuable Its largest markets are transportation, machinery by-products: gold, silver and molybdenum.
Key locations Key sales markets Key locations Key sales markets Canada Asia US US Europe Americas Chile China Australia Europe Mongolia Japan Bauxite and aluminium production Mined copper production increase Bauxite Aluminium 548.8 thousand tonnes 31,419 2,174 thousand tonnes thousand tonnes 2011: 28,192 2011: 2,386 11% -9% 2012 2012 % on 2011 6 2011 2011 See page 19 See page 20 Rio Tinto Alcan production only Exploration The goal of our Exploration group is to create value for Rio Tinto through the discovery or acquisition of Tier 1 resources the largest, lowest-cost resources that are profitable at all parts of the commodity cycle.
Some of our operations, such as Weipa, the Pilbara and Rssing, are Tier 1 greenfield discoveries Visit our online reporting centre: by Rio Tinto where value is still being realised after more than 40 years of production.
com reportingcentre2012 our Exploration group was active in 20 countries and assessing opportunities in several others for a range of commodities including iron ore, copper, bauxite, coking coal, nickel, potash, uranium and mineral sands.
4 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review Our global presence, and our expertise in technology and marketing, enables us to bring our customers the right product, at the right quality, at the right time.
Diamonds & Minerals Energy Iron Ore Products: titanium dioxide, diamonds, Products: thermal coal, coking coal Product: iron ore borates, salt, high-purity iron, metal powders, and uranium zircon and rutile The Diamonds & Minerals group comprises mining, We are a leading seaborne supplier of thermal and Iron is the key ingredient in the production of steel, refining and marketing operations across four coking coal to Asian customers.
Thermal coal is one of the most fundamental and durable products sectors.
Rio Tinto Diamonds is one of the worlds used for electricity generation in power stations, for modern-day living.
We are the second-largest leading diamond producers, active in mining, and coking coal is mixed in furnaces with iron ore producer supplying the global seaborne iron ore sales and marketing.
Rio Tinto Minerals is a world to produce steel.
We are also one of the worlds trade.
After a decade of rapid expansion in leader in borates, with mines, processing plants, largest uranium producers, serving electric power Australia, and more recent growth in Canada, we commercial and research facilities.
Uranium is one of the most are well positioned to benefit from the continuing is one of the worlds largest producers of seaborne powerful natural energy sources known, used in the strong demand in China and other Asian markets.
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium is an industry leader production of clean, stable base-load electricity.
in high-grade titanium dioxide feedstocks.
Key locations Key sales markets Key locations Key sales markets Key locations Key sales markets North America North America Australia Japan Australia China Australia China Namibia South Korea Canada Japan South Africa Japan Mozambique Europe South Korea Revenue and EBITDA Hard coking coal and uranium production Record iron ore production Hard coking coal 253.4 Revenue EBITDA 8,044 2011: 8,815 -9% million tonnes 100% basis US$4,056m US$658m thousand tonnes 100% basis 11% 119% 2011: 244.6 million tonnes % 4 Uranium 9,760 2011: 7,058 38% thousand pounds 2011: US$3,654m 2011: US$300m See page 21 See page 22 See page 23 Technology & Innovation The focus of our Technology & Innovation T&I group is on creating sustainable value and competitive advantage by embedding fundamental changes in the way Rio Tinto operates.
It partners with the business to provide technical insights in operational improvements, technical assurance, project delivery and innovation.
Among T&Is core focus areas is our Mine of the Future programme, which is developing advanced ways of finding, extracting and processing minerals from deep within the Earth, while reducing environmental impacts and further improving safety.
com 5 Our global footprint Unlocking value For almost 140 years, we have Creating value for all our stakeholders been unlocking the wealth Today, we work in more than 40 countries on six continents.
In our held in the Earths mineral operating heartland and in our growth regions, were committed resources, generating value for to balancing value-adding investments with sustainable returns to our shareholders in the process.
shareholders and the prudent management of our balance sheet.
We bring benefits to our other stakeholders, who include We bring together our operational, technical and sustainable local communities, suppliers, development expertise at the global level, and work in host governments, partners collaboration with our stakeholders to deliver substantial and and employees.
lasting benefits at the local level.
In 2012, our global direct economic contribution including wages, tax and supplier payments was more than US$56 billion.
We also spent US$292 million on community assistance programmes.
Were proud to be seen as an experienced global operator with a track record of bringing value to the places where we work.
Below are just a few of the ways in which were creating value for shareholders, and knock-on benefits for our stakeholders worldwide.
Canada: Diamonds & Minerals Canada: Aluminium Pioneering wind farm to bring reductions Technology advances create in fuel use and emissions opportunity for local suppliers Diavik Diamond Mine is the site of the worlds most Our AP Technology solution brings excellent northern, large-scale, wind-diesel, hybrid power results for reliability and productivity while being system and Rio Tintos first wind power facility.
the cleanest smelting technology with the lowest The wind farm began delivering power to Diaviks emission levels.
AP60, the newest generation, grid in September 2012.
Wind power is projected has 40 per cent higher metal output than other to reduce Diaviks annual fuel use by ten per cent technologies.
Its also providing opportunity for and lower its carbon footprint by six per cent.
It also other businesses in Quebec.
In 2012, we welcomed means Diavik will reduce by 100 the number of the first AP60 cell to our Arvida Technology Centre.
tanker truck loads of fuel it hauls to the mine each Local supplier Charl-Pol Saguenay built the cell and year along a seasonal ice road.
will deploy the technology globally.
Visit our online reporting centre: riotinto.
com reportingcentre2012 6 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review Countries where Rio Tinto has mines, mining projects, smelters, refineries and processing plants remote from mine Diavik Diamond Rio Tinto Alcan Rssing Oyu Tolgoi Pilbara Iron Ore Mine AP60 plant Uranium copper-gold mine operations Namibia: Energy Mongolia: Copper Pilbara, Western Australia: Iron Ore Building community capacity Preserving a treasured environment Operational and financial excellence through education in the Gobi desert from world-class assets At Rssing Uranium, the Rssing Foundation has, Even before our Oyu Tolgoi mine reaches Our Western Australian iron ore mines and since 1978, spent more than N$200m US$22m commercial production in 2013, more than ten infrastructure network continue delivering financial to impart practical skills to Namibians with more years of environmental management will have and operational excellence.
In 2012, we broke than half of this on education.
Partnerships with international more production and shipment records and awarded over 100 university and apprenticeship biodiversity experts are helping us protect the stayed on track with our expansion plans.
Since 2008, it has put over 2,000 people Gobi deserts unique flora and fauna, where share of production increased by four per cent through training and development programmes, our advanced water recycling and processing to 191 million tonnes.
Incremental improvements such as apprenticeships, scholarships and technical techniques are key to minimising any impacts.
to our Pilbara system raised annual capacity college, helping develop future generations of local Local community involvement in monitoring our to 237 million tonnes, and kept us on target to people to, one day, work at our operations.
work helps ensure were on the road to success.
reach 360 million tonnes in the first half of 2015. riotinto.
com 7 Interview with the chairman and the chief executive Building a more accountable and disciplined company Strong business fundamentals Jan du Plessis and Sam Walsh discuss performance in 2012 Our business performed well in 2012, generating strong cash flows and underlying earnings.
Although lower than last year, principally due to lower and the companys plans for the future.
commodity prices and higher costs, these results demonstrate the quality of our assets and the sustainable cash-generating abilities of our business.
However, we recorded some significant impairments that were deeply disappointing.
Here, chairman, Jan du Plessis and chief executive, Sam Walsh, share their views about performance in 2012, and how over the short and long term, we will pursue greater value for shareholders.
Board of directors Sam Walsh, chief executive Jan du Plessis, chairman Executive Non-executive View full biographies online at riotinto.
com reportingcentre2012 Guy Elliott Chris Lynch Ann Godbehere Robert Brown Chris Lynch will replace Guy Elliott as chief financial officer on 18 April 2013, at which point Guy Elliott will leave the Executive Committee and remain on the Rio Tinto boards until he retires at the end of 2013.
8 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review We are focused on improving performance at our existing operations, delivering our approved growth projects, and reinforcing discipline in our allocation of capital.
2012 performance What were the financial Future direction What is the focus of the Leadership capabilities How important is and operational highlights of 2012?
leadership to the execution of your strategy and delivery of your plans?
Jan Jan Jan Markets continued to be volatile in 2012, with lower The board conducted its annual strategy commodity prices and many of our businesses review with the executive team last September Leadership is critical at all levels at board level, experiencing production challenges too.
Despite this, reaffirming our commitment to invest in and at executive level, and throughout the business.
the Group performed well, generating strong cash operate large, long-term, expandable, low-cost We are committed to effective succession planning flows and underlying earnings of US$9.3 billion.
at both the board and executive level.
My goal is to Of course, the US$14.4 billion impairment make sure the board combines the diverse blend of However, there was continuing volatility in the we announced at the beginning of 2013 was skills and international experience that is available global economy and major structural shifts have deeply disappointing, and is unacceptable, but to it now and to further enhance it for the future.
Improvements have to be made we are making changes to build a stronger, more in how we execute our strategy.
The board has Sam accountable business.
tasked Sam and his executive team with ensuring I am building a stronger, more focused and that we improve capital allocation, deliver our Sam more accountable business.
In my mind, this growth projects and improve productivity at all The sound underlying financial performance last is absolutely critical to the successful delivery of our sites, while building on our industry leading year that Jan mentions was mainly driven by a of our strategy.
capabilities, such as in stakeholder engagement strong operational performance from some of our and sustainable development.
In my drive to increase individual accountability, I businesses.
Our Iron Ore business delivered record have recently made changes to my executive team, production and shipments, despite weather Sam streamlining it to enhance decision-making.
I am disruptions and maintenance shutdowns during Our immediate priority is to improve business very confident the team I have in place is fully the year, and our Copper business showed a second performance by unlocking productivity committed to delivering, as am I, greater value for half recovery in copper volumes.
We also had improvements, aggressively reducing operating our shareholders.
This is a pursuit I am aligning the production increases in bauxite, alumina, thermal and support costs, controlling our sustaining entire business around: leadership at all levels has coal and titanium dioxide.
But of course, we can capital expenditure and leveraging our expertise a key role to play in achieving this goal.
never be satisfied in a year where fatalities occur throughout our operations.
We are targeting at any operation: we must do better to ensure all cumulative cash cost savings of over US$5 billion of our employees go home safe at the end of each dollars over the next two years.
As Jan mentions, working day.
we are also looking to prioritise our capital expenditure on what we believe are the highest quality projects to optimise the way we allocate our shareholders funds.
In addition, we are taking an even more aggressive portfolio approach to divest assets that no longer fit our strategy.
Michael Fitzpatrick Vivienne Cox Richard Goodmanson Lord Kerr Paul Tellier John Varley riotinto.
com 9 Interview with the chairman and the chief executive continued Market outlook How will the Groups strategy position Rio Tinto for the future?
Sam Jan I remain fully confident in the future prospects of We expect market uncertainty and price volatility the business.
We have the right strategy to deliver to persist in 2013, but there are positive signs sustainable growth over the long term to meet the emerging.
In China specifically, momentum is worlds resourcing needs.
As billions of people growing under its new leadership, and we expect move from rural to urban areas over the coming to see Chinese GDP growth above eight per cent decades, there will be increased demand for the in 2013. metals and minerals we produce.
The company has a renewed and strong leadership This is a great company, pursuing a consistent team, supported by outstanding people.
I would like strategy with a renewed executive team, under to thank our 71,000 employees around the world Sams leadership, and excellent people.
I thank for their dedication and resilience.
In many parts all of our shareholders for their continued support.
of our operations we faced some testing times last When I report back to you on Rio Tintos progress year and there will undoubtedly be more to come.
at this point next year, I am sure I will be reporting In the short term, I am certain of what needs to on an even stronger organisation focused on be done and we are taking decisive steps with delivering value for the owners of our company, a clear plan to build a stronger, more our shareholders.
Executive Committee Sam Walsh Guy Elliott Chris Lynch Andrew Harding Jacynthe Ct Alan Davies Harry Kenyon-Slaney Debra Valentine Hugo Bague View full biographies online at riotinto.
com reportingcentre2012 Preston Chiaro Jean-Sbastien Jacques Chris Lynch will replace Guy Elliott as chief financial officer on 18 April 2013, at which point Guy Elliott will leave the Executive Committee and remain on the Rio Tinto boards until he retires at the end of 2013.
10 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review Summary corporate governance Our management of risk through good governance Putting safety and risk management at the heart of the company is the foundation for building trust and delivering value.
In our pursuit of greater shareholder value, we experience from a wide range of professional, of this exercise, which will be presented to us business and public office backgrounds.
It is in the first half of 2013. must maintain the highest standards of corporate essential that the profile and diversity of the board governance.
Good governance is the foundation Managing risk continues to serve the needs of our business, now on which we manage risk and build the trust and for the future.
The board recognises that risk is an integral of all ourstakeholders.
component of our business and that creating For Rio Tinto, diversity embraces a range of Everyone in Rio Tinto is bound by a common code shareholder return is the reward for taking different measures, including, of course, gender of conduct, which governs the way we work in all and accepting risk.
We have adopted a diversity and inclusion corners of the world.
Our employees are united policy and set measurable objectives for achieving The Group requires a corporate culture that by our strong values of accountability, respect, diversity across the company, including on is risk-aware: where risk management is directed teamwork and integrity.
They make sure that high theboard.
by leaders, and integrated with core business ethical standards, and an unwavering commitment and decision-making processes.
Our business to safety, permeate our organisation.
Our board committees the Audit Committee, units and functions assess the potential the Nominations Committee, the Sustainability economic and non-economic consequences A diverse board Committee, the Remuneration Committee and of their respective risks using the framework Our board is responsible for the direction and the Chairmans Committee under the leadership defined by the Groups risk policy and oversight of Rio Tinto on behalf of our shareholders.
of their respective chairs, carry out important standard.
We define clear accountability for The boards oversight of the robust corporate and demanding roles on the boards behalf and risk management throughout the Group, and governance framework at the heart of our facilitate the embedding of good governance it is a key performance area for line managers.
organisation supports our business and ensures across the organisation.
Our Group Risk function provides the infrastructure that we can consistently execute our strategy.
For the first time in 2012, the boards annual to support understanding and management of risk We have a chairman, three executive directors evaluation exercise was facilitated by an at all levels, and reports into the Risk Management and eight independent non-executive directors.
The board will Committee, which is under the accountability devote considerable attention to the outcomes of our chief executive.
Our directors bring with them truly international Our governance structure Board of directors Audit Nominations Sustainability Remuneration Chairmans Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chief Chief Financial Executive Officer Continuous Disclosure Investment Executive Disclosure and Procedures Committee Committee a Committee Committee Risk Closure Finance Management Committee Committee Committee Ore Reserves Board committees Steering Management committees Committee a The Continuous Disclosure Committee is an independent management committee.
com 11 Explaining our strategy The pursuit of greater value The global economic outlook remains uncertain and volatile.
This requires us to have a clear and consistent strategy designed to support a single commitment: the pursuit of greater value for our shareholders.
To achieve this we are building an even stronger, more focused, and more accountable organisation.
in assets that, after prudent assessment, offer Pursuing greater value for shareholders attractive returns, well above our cost of capital.
Our approach balances investment to grow the value of the business and returns to Objective Strategy shareholders, while aiming to maintain a strong Maximising total shareholder return by Investing in and operating large, long-term, balance sheet and retain our single A credit rating.
sustainably finding, developing, mining and expandable, low-cost mines and businesses, Our strategy is underpinned by our leading processing natural resources.
driven by the quality of each opportunity in capabilities across the value chain and we the most attractive industry sectors.
intend to deepen our expertise and leadership in these areas.
Shared value strategy remains the right one: to invest in and Industry-leading capabilities operate large, long-term, expandable, low-cost Pursuing greater value for our shareholders means We have been in business for 140 years.
This strategy has served us delivering superior returns for the people who own this time, we have built a deep understanding and invest in our company.
We will do this while well over many years and we have full confidence and expertise in industry-leading capabilities maintaining a focus on safety and by staying true that it will continue to do so in the future.
such as sustainable development, technology and to our core values, wherever we operate.
innovation, exploration, marketing and operational The opportunities we pursue are driven by quality excellence.
We believe these capabilities will Delivering superior shareholder value brings with and will be in the most attractive industry sectors.
support us in our renewed focus on delivering it the opportunity to share our success with many We are convinced of the benefits of owning a greater value for our shareholders.
For host governments diversified asset portfolio, provided this is achieved and communities, it means ensuring widespread in a way that maximises value for our shareholders.
We have world-class businesses, such as and lasting economic benefits.
For our customers, We look for high-quality assets in the right industry our industry-leading iron ore operations in it means delivering what they need to be sectors that provide superior returns throughout Australia, and we are developers and owners successful.
And for our employees, it means the economic cycle with options for growth when of what will be a top-five copper and gold mine creating opportunities to learn and grow in a the time is right.
And we will realise value by in the Gobi desert of Mongolia.
divesting businesses that are no longer in line with We have pioneered several world-leading mining our strategy.
A consistent strategy and processing technologies.
We are the owner of We will apply a disciplined and rigorous investment the worlds largest fleet of driverless trucks, which As we continue to face short-term uncertainty and pricing volatility in many of our markets, our process to ensure that capital is invested only are operated from a control centre some 1,500km Delivering shareholder value in our Iron Ore business Our world-class iron ore assets are a prime example of the large long-term, low-cost and expandable assets in which we choose to invest.
Record global shipments in 2012 Pilbara operations capacity at end 2012: 100 per cent basis : 237 million tonnes 247 million tonnes Pilbara operations capacity expansion target 2012 revenue: in H1 2015: US$24,279 million 360 million tonnes 2012 underlying earnings: US$9,242 million 12 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review Visit our online reporting centre: riotinto.
We are using our expertise in technology and This year, our efforts will be focused in three support costs, controlling sustaining capital innovation to drive safety and productivity key areas: spend and leveraging our expertise across all improvements across all of our businesses.
Reinforcing capital allocation and discipline.
Improve our safety performance in 2013.
We also have long experience of building and 2.
Reducing costs and improving performance maintaining relationships wherever we operate.
Deliver our cumulative US$5 billion cash The success of our business is underpinned by doing cost-reduction target by the end of 2014.
Delivering our approved growth projects.
things the right way and by staying true to our values.
Reduce exploration and evaluation spending Our outstanding people live these values day in Reinforcing capital allocation and discipline by US$750 million pre-tax in 2013 compared and day out wherever we operate around the world.
We will prioritise our capital expenditure on the with 2012. highest-quality projects and improve the way we Even so, we know there is more we can do and Achieve targeted reductions of US$1 billion manage capital.
In addition, we are taking a more we will be reinforcing discipline and accountability in our sustaining capital expenditure compared aggressive portfolio approach to assets that no throughout the organisation.
Simply put, our with 2012. longer fit our strategy.
We will: leaders and employees will have clear targets Delivering approved growth projects and be held accountable for their individual Simplify and strengthen our process for During 2013, we are committed to delivering our performance, which will be rewarded with career allocating capital.
two significant growth projects: in our Iron Ore growth and development opportunities.
Our people Review capital expenditure plans across business in Australia and in our copper-gold project must run the business as owners, not managers.
all of our businesses, as we do every year.
in Mongolia, in a risk-managed, value-enhancing In parallel, we will also strengthen our Streamline our portfolio through divestments manner.
We will draw upon our leadership management and approval systems bringing targeting significant cash proceeds in 2013. capability in stakeholder engagement to help greater rigour to investment decisions, and us build enduring relationships with our host Invest only in new projects that provide implementing effective checks and balances with governments and communities.
attractive returns, well above cost of capital, clearer lines of sight to critical business issues.
and compare favourably to other uses Pilbara 290 first production accelerated of capital.
What you can expect from us this year to the third quarter of 2013.
Reducing costs and improving performance Consistent execution of our strategy in every Oyu Tolgoi scheduled for first production in our businesses market, in all of our businesses, is how we will in 2013.
Discussions with the Government deliver value this year.
In 2013, we will reduce costs, Our immediate priority is to improve performance of Mongolia regarding the continuing deliver our approved growth projects, reshape the at our existing businesses by unlocking productivity implementation of the Investment Agreement portfolio, and build a more accountable business.
improvements, aggressively reducing operating and are ongoing.
support cost support costs, contr s, controlling sustaining capital olling sustaining capital Achievement of our strategy is measured by key performance indicators, see page 18. riotinto.
com 13 Our business model Pathway to a positive legacy We create value by investing in and operating assets that are large-scale, expandable and low-cost, and that have the potential for a long life.
This strategy allows us to deliver value to other stakeholders, including our employees, partners, host communities and governments.
Explore and evaluate Develop Mine and process Market and deliver Close down and rehabilitate We believe that the strength of our assets and fully with our new host communities to understand turn, gives confidence to our stakeholders, balance sheet, and our recognised expertise in and respond to their needs.
In this early phase, and helps us to be the partner of choice thus areas such as exploration, sustainable development, we will also start to plan for eventual closure continuing the journey along our development marketing and innovation maximise value creation of the operation making sure we can leave pathway while finding new sources of value and are a source of competitive advantage.
Throughout the life of our in a volatile world.
operations, we look for opportunities to implement By working in line with our corporate values at all Explore and evaluate and deliver sustainable contributions to social times, we ensure we progress through our projects, Our experienced, in-house exploration team has a wellbeing, environmental stewardship and ultimately leaving a positive legacy.
proven track record for discovering large, long-life economic prosperity, guided by our strong orebodies.
The team creates further value from its Sustainable development is embedded at every governancesystems.
identification of opportunities for the brownfield stage of our business model.
Our focus on long-life Our size, our long history, and the fact that we expansion of our existing assets.
Our orebody operations means we are an active part of a invest in multi-decade operations, means that our knowledge allows us to innovate value-enhancing community, usually for many decades, bringing portfolio consists of assets in all stages of their approaches to developing, operating and expanding direct and indirect contributions to local, regional lifecycle.
This diversity provides us with a valuable our resources and positioning our products in and national economies.
opportunity to share knowledge and best practice the market.
Our commitment to sustainable development from our more mature operations, with those endures throughout the active life of our in the earlier phases of development.
It means operations, and well beyond.
From the earliest that we never stand still, and are always making stage of exploration, we ensure we are engaging improvements to the way we do things.
This, in View our online reporting centre: riotinto.
com reportingcentre2012 14 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review Generating long-term value for our shareholders Sustainable value Making sustainable contributions to social wellbeing, environmental stewardship and economic prosperity Develop maintenance practices across the Group.
of our markets and value chain, allowing us to This reduces our use of consumables, increases improve our investment decision-making process.
We develop orebodies with long-term value delivery the life of our equipment and optimises the In many cases, we are responsible for delivering in mind.
We allocate investment only to assets that, extraction of ore.
In turn, we enjoy higher product to our customers.
We do this in a variety after prudent assessment, offer attractive returns production, reduced costs and value maximisation.
of ways, but always efficiently, reliably and that are well above our cost of capital.
During We use world-class technologies during mining cost-effectively.
this phase, we plan the optimal configuration and processing to increase our efficiency and for developing the orebody and for getting our Close down and rehabilitate productivity, and to produce material that is products to market.
We work closely with our We integrate closure planning throughout tailored to our customers needs.
customers to create demand in the market for an assets lifecycle, from the earliest stages the grade of product that enables us to maximise Market and deliver of project development.
When a resource reaches the value of the orebody over its lifecycle.
Once The majority of our customers are industrial the end of its life, we are committed to high the value of the resource is confirmed, and internal companies that further process our products to standards of close-down and reclamation.
and external approvals are received, the project supply numerous industries construction and This helps us to maintain a positive reputation moves into implementation and construction.
infrastructure, automotive, industrial machinery for sustainable development and ensures Mine and process and equipment, energy and consumer goods we meet the expectations of our current and markets.
We invest in long-term partnerships and future stakeholders.
We create value by safely and efficiently innovate and improve our products and services operating assets that fit with our Group strategy.
to maximise product value to customers.
We are Our global presence and management structure constantly adding to our significant knowledge allows us to implement standard operating and riotinto.
com 15 Sustainable development Living our values Our approach to sustainable development underpins our licence to operate positioning us as the developer of choice for the next generation of mining and metals projects around the world.
Because we recognise that we have a responsibility to all our stakeholders and to the wider world, our commitment to sustainable development is integrated into everything we do.
Our operations deliver broad value, not just to For many emerging and developing countries, those directly touched by our activities, such as mining can play an important role in alleviating shareholders and employees.
Our positive impact poverty, and also have a positive effect in other extends much further: to our host communities: to areas, such as the development of skills and our suppliers: to the businesses where employees infrastructure see case study.
spend their wages: and to the people who benefit There are benefits to be brought to our longerfrom sharing our infrastructure.
In Australia, for Mines and mineral processing plants can have instance, our Iron Ore group has awarded over positive effects on the communities, regions and A$1 billion in direct and indirect contracts to countries where they are established.
We make Aboriginal businesses over the last two years.
careful decisions throughout an operations life Our approach from the earliest stages of exploration to beyond its As well as being the right thing to do, our approach eventual closure to maximise those opportunities, to sustainable development makes sound business and deliver value to all our stakeholders.
It will help us secure our future for the believe this complements our Group strategy long-term in both existing and growth markets.
of maximising value for ourshareholders.
Find out more about our sustainable development programmes and performance: riotinto.
com  16 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review Our operations give us the opportunity to bring enduring benefits to the communities, regions and countries where we work.
Meanwhile, our metals and minerals are transformed into end-products that contribute to higher living standards.
Growing local Our local supplier relationships are an important part of how we spread prosperity in the places we operate.
By procuring goods and services from neighbouring businesses, we encourage local entrepreneurship and employment beyond our mines and plants, and provide an additional boost to our host economies.
We also develop and support programmes to help these suppliers expand Our approach begins with The way we work our We recently undertook a major review of how we and strengthen their enterprises and expertise, global code of business conduct.
We look for ways engage with stakeholders at all levels, and are increasing the sustainability of their businesses.
to deliver social, environmental and economic focusing on building even more expertise in this benefits, while operating within our strong area across the organisation.
In Guinea, we buy fresh fruit and vegetables governance systems.
for our Simandou iron ore project from a market Making modern life work gardening company called Djigui.
In 2007, To meet our sustainable development goals, As well as our activities being a major contributor Djiguis manager, Madame Donzo, enrolled we have a relentless focus on living our values: to economic stability and growth, our products are on a Rio Tinto-funded literacy programme accountability, respect, teamwork and integrity.
essential components in products that make lives offered by the Linkage Programme.
This In 2012, we added new features to our Speak-OUT more comfortable: in our homes and workplaces, joint initiative between Rio Tinto and the whistleblowing programme, and also introduced in transportation, for recreation and communication.
International Finance Corporation was set new standards relating to anti-corruption and up to develop local supply chains in Guinea.
Our products themselves also have a part to conflicts of interest.
play in the transition to sustainable development.
Madame Donzo went on to study more Safety is a core priority for us, and a key measure Many are used in environmentally beneficial advanced courses in areas including business of our performance at a Group and individual level.
applications, such as borates in insulation, or management, sales and marketing.
The results To help us reach our goal of zero harm, we are aluminium in lighter weight vehicles that reduce were rapid and clear: in the space of just two simplifying our safety systems, making more use of fuel use.
years, she went from selling her produce at the innovative technologies such as at the Block Cave local market, to running a fully-equipped office We have an approach to product stewardship Knowledge Centre in Australia see page 20 and with three employees, and saw a 30-fold that involves understanding the health, safety, placing an increased focus on contractor safety.
social and environmental impacts of our metals We constantly challenge ourselves, reviewing our and minerals across their lifecycles.
In 2012, approach to ensure it remains focused on the risks for example, Rio Tinto Alcan played a lead role that matter most to us and to our stakeholders.
as a co-founder of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative, whose mission is to deliver the first global Licence to operate standard for responsible production, use and reuse Our stakeholders have high and increasing of aluminium.
expectations of our performance and behaviour.
We believe that our approach to sustainable Partnering for success development gives us the ability to respond We know that we do not have all the answers to challenges, turning them into competitive ourselves to maximise our contribution to advantage for our business.
So for many years, we have worked in partnership with others, inside and By working in a responsible way, we preserve and outside our sector, to increase our understanding extend our licence to operate.
This enables us to of the challenges and opportunities we face.
It keep our operations running over long-term time helps us implement solutions that develop our horizons and across economic cycles.
In turn, we competitive advantage and are mutually beneficial can keep delivering sustainable benefits and giving for our stakeholders.
back to our local communities and host governments for longer.
For instance, we work with leading conservation I chose the name Djigui for m y organisations to refine our biodiversity tools and To help our people achieve personal growth, business it means hope in methodologies.
Our goal is to have a net positive and build a workforce that is fit for the future, impact NPI on biodiversity, and in 2012, we we are continuing to roll out the Rio Tinto College.
We now have a minibus collaborated with the International Union for The College provides a mix of classroom, social for transporting our produce and Conservation of Nature to publish the first complete and virtual learning in leadership and functional NPI forecast for our operation in Madagascar.
In 2012, new Academies were added to the College in the areas of health, safety, environment Weve also started Djigui We are continually exploring new opportunities and communities, human resources and for partnerships that align with our strategy.
By Prestation, a printing company, stakeholder engagement.
building relationships with our stakeholders, and and Djigui Construction.
carefully analysing and managing risk, we create opportunities from external challenges, and reinforce our licence to operate.
com 17 Key performance indicators Measuring up Achievement of our strategy and goals is measured by a mixture of financial and non-financial performance indicators, a number of which are linked to executive remuneration.
a b a All injury frequency rate AIFR Underlying earnings Operating cash flows 0.67 9.3bn 16.5bn Per 200,000 hours worked 2011: 0.67 US$ 2011: 15.5bn US$ 2011: 27.4bn Our AIFR has improved 29 per cent over the Underlying earnings have fallen by Operating cash flows of US$16,450 million, which last five years.
We have maintained our AIFR US$6,246 million compared with 2011. include US$522 million of dividends from equity of 0.67 for 2012.
This reflects lower average market prices accounted units, are 40 per cent lower than in for the Groups commodities during the 2011, primarily as the result of lower prices.
year, an overall fall in volumes sold, and industry-wide cost inflation pressures.
a a c Total shareholder return TSR Net debt Capital expenditure 14.7% 19.3bn 17.4bn 2011: 31.1 % 2011: 8.5bn 2011: 12.3bn US$ US$ Rio Tintos TSR performance over the five-year Net debt increased from US$8,451 million at Capital expenditure of US$17,418 million period from 2008 to 2012 was driven by 31 December 2011 to US$19,261 million has risen by US$5,120 million compared with increasing volatility in world stock markets and at 31 December 2012 as operating cash 2011.
This is due mainly to continued expansion commodity prices.
Total dividends paid during inflows were offset by outflows relating and construction across the Group, including 2012 were 163.5 US cents per share, an increase to capital expenditure, acquisitions, an increase Pilbara Iron Ore mines, Oyu Tolgoi mine and of 40 per cent over 2011.
Investor sentiment in the dividend payment, and the share concentrator, Kitimat aluminium smelter, Kestrel improved in the fourth quarter of 2012 with buy-back programme.
coking coal underground mine, and the Argyle the share price ending 2012 closer to its highs underground diamond mine.
This resulted in a positive TSR of 14.7 per cent for 2012.
Notes GHG emissions intensity 94.9 a The accounting information is drawn up in accordance with EU IFRS.
Indexed relative to 2008 2011: 95.9 b Underlying earnings is the key financial performance indicator which management uses internally to assess We have reduced our total GHG emissions performance.
It is presented here as a measure of earnings to provide greater understanding of the underlying intensity by 5.1 per cent between 2008 and 2012. business performance of the Groups operations.
Items excluded from net earnings to arrive at underlying earnings This is largely a result of the Ningxia aluminium are explained in note 2 to the 2012 financial statements.
Both net earnings and underlying earnings deal with amounts attributable to the owners of Rio Tinto.
However, EU IFRS requires that the profit for the year reported smelter divestment in 2009 and the closure in the income statement should also include earnings attributable to non-controlling interests in subsidiaries.
of the Lynemouth smelter in 2012. c Amounts include 100 per cent of subsidiaries capital expenditures and Rio Tintos share of the capital expenditure of equity accounted units.
View detailed key performance indicators online at riotinto.
com reportingcentre2012 18 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review View a full review of operations online at Business review Aluminium riotinto.
com reportingcentre2012 Continued focus on transformation Rio Tinto Alcan is a global leader in the aluminium industry.
This light, strong, extraordinarily versatile and infinitely recyclable metal is the material of choice for diverse applications from making vehicles lighter to reduce fuel use, to the infrastructure needs of emerging economies.
Operating highlights Our priorities for 2013 Further enhancing our all injury frequency rate, which was 0.72 at the end of 2012.
Revenue US$m Delivering additional cost reduction and productivity improvements.
10,105 Disciplined portfolio management, and divesting non-core assets.
Operating cash flow US$m Maintaining a tight focus on high-return production creep and modernisation projects.
Leveraging competitive advantages in bauxite and energy.
522 Underlying earnings US$m 3 A year in review On the primary metal side, a modernisation of the continuity of supply to our alumina refineries in the ISAL smelter in Iceland is under way.
This would region, while capitalising on the rapidly-growing While aluminium production decreased by nine increase capacity by 20 per cent and move the third-party market for seaborne bauxite.
per cent to 2.2 million tonnes in 2012 due in part facility further down the cost curve.
The new to a labour dispute, at the Alma smelter, in Quebec, Two major smelting projects under way in Canada leading-edge casting facility produced its first billet which has since been resolved Rio Tinto Alcans at Kitimat, British Columbia, and in the Saguenay in 2012.
These projects are indicative of our focus production of bauxite and alumina increased by region of Quebec are designed to leverage our on streamlining our portfolio, and creating value 11 per cent and 19 per cent, respectively.
clean, self-generated hydroelectricity and reap by focusing capital investment on high-return first-user advantages from the latest AP smelting Record production levels at Weipa in Australia, and production creep and modernisation projects.
In Quebec, the construction of the in Guinea, helped meet increased third-party AP60 smelter is complete and is now in the Looking forward demand for bauxite, particularly from China, and commissioning phase.
The AP60 technology contributed to total output of 31.4 million tonnes.
Our development pipeline also reflects our will become an aluminium industry benchmark Alumina production increased to 7.0 million tonnes disciplined approach.
We are focusing on long-life, due to its operating costs, energy consumption, during 2012, as expanded refining capacity came Tier 1 assets while strictly limiting growth in line and environmental performance.
on line at Yarwun in Australia.
The expanded with market conditions.
In Australia, we are refinery is on track to reach its nameplate capacity completing feasibility and environmental impact Despite the current challenging environment, the of 3.4 million tonnes by the third quarter of 2013. studies for the South of Embley project, which longer-term outlook for aluminium remains robust, It will move our alumina production into the second would extend the life of the Weipa bauxite mine by and we believe strong profits will be available for around 40 years.
This would enable us to maintain the well-positioned, low-cost operator.
quartile of the industry cost curve.
Reduced emissions translate into increased value Energy is crucial for pursuing value in the aluminium sector, both from sustainability and cost perspectives.
At the end of 2012, Rio Tinto Alcans total greenhouse gas intensity was 24 per cent lower than our 2008 baseline performance, thanks to portfolio changes and ongoing operational improvements.
We are leveraging the benefits represented by having the industrys best energy position and lowest carbon footprint.
% 96 carbon-free power supply, the lowest in the industry.
Rio Tinto Alcans Shipshaw power station in the Saguenay region of Quebec, Canada.
See page 30 for information on the impairment charge recognised in 2012 relating to the Groups aluminium businesses including Pacific Aluminium.
com 19 Business review Copper A strong pipeline of value-generating projects We continue to invest in, develop and mine world-class copper assets, while tailoring individual product, supply and delivery solutions to keep our customers ahead.
Operating highlights Our priorities for 2013 Continuing progress towards zero harm and risk mitigation, focusing heavily on process safety Revenue US$m and underground safety standards.
6,661 Optimising current assets through operational performance and disciplined cost management.
Delivering a notable reduction in overhead costs and maintaining strong EBITDA margins.
Operating cash flow US$m Developing a strong pipeline of value-generating greenfield projects.
492 Prioritising investment and retaining optionality on high-quality assets.
Underlying earnings US$m Using technological innovations such as key processing and rapid underground development to deliver operational efficiency and reduce development costs.
1,092 A year in review from open-cut to underground block cave mining.
Looking forward It is expected to reach full capacity of 240,000 Our strategy is to maximise shareholder returns Copper remains a building block of electrification tonnes per day by 2022. by delivering superior margins and growth from and urbanisation, and despite continued strategic assets.
In 2012, the Copper group short-term volatility, the strong long-term market Our projects give Rio Tinto the highest performance remained focused on serving customers and fundamentals remain intact.
At Oyu Tolgoi, commercial production shareholders by developing and operating China, India and South East Asia alone is capable is expected to begin in 2013.
Oyu Tolgoi is set world-class assets to meet copper demand in the of supporting the market for decades.
to be one of the worlds top-five copper producers, near and long term.
In 2012, we were the worlds Today, the world uses 19 million tonnes providing a positive social and economic legacy sixth-largest copper supplier, producing 549,000 of copper a year a figure expected to rise to over for generations of Mongolians.
In Peru, we began tonnes of mined copper.
Playing an essential a pre-feasibility study at La Granja, one of In order to continue meeting demand for our role in computers, smartphones, appliances and Latin Americas largest undeveloped greenfield products, we advanced several projects to extend construction, as well as green innovation such copper projects.
the life of existing mines.
These included approval as hybrid cars, solar and wind power, and As near-surface ore reserves decline, we of a US$660 million investment in Kennecott Utah hydro-electricity, we see this flexible, conductive are investing in technology to extract deep Coppers Bingham Canyon Mine, which should metal as having a bright future.
underground copper for our customers safely, see its mine life extend from 2018 to 2029.
The Grasberg mine in Indonesia continued transitioning efficiently and with the least environmental impact.
Value through safety As block cave mining becomes the most efficient source of large-scale copper extraction, were delivering sustainable value by improving how we mine safely at depth.
In 2012, we opened our state-of-the-art Block Caving Knowledge Centre in Northparkes, Australia.
Were setting global standards of safety and technical training, making mining safer, more energy-efficient and cost-effective, however deep we have to go.
850 metres The depth below surface that mining has reached at Northparkes.
The Block Cave Knowledge Centre uses three-dimensional simulation to train our people in underground mining techniques.
20 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review View a full review of operations online at Business review Diamonds & Minerals riotinto.
com reportingcentre2012 Solid performance in volatile markets Our diamonds and industrial minerals businesses serve a range of different industries, but are linked through their track record of creating and defining new, profitable markets for our products.
Operating highlights Our priorities for 2013 Continue making safety our most important value.
Revenue US$m Improving our existing businesses operational and commercial performance.
4,056 Building capacity by executing growth projects within existing assets.
Operating cash flow US$m Growing our portfolio through value-adding exploration and acquisitions.
Continue moving towards more flexible titanium dioxide pricing terms.
238 Underlying earnings US$m 119 A year in review entire interests.
RBM is one of the worlds In October, the Republic of Guinea declared the lowest-cost mineral sands producers and has Simandou infrastructure a Project of National Diamonds, borates and titanium dioxide have resources to support 20 years of production.
Interest, protecting the area of land needed much in common.
Demand for our products is Rio Tinto manages RBM and markets its products.
to develop the rail and port infrastructure from linked to rising standards of living manifested by any acquisition or development by third parties.
better diets, more energy-efficient homes, and In 2012, we also began a strategic review of our higher discretionary spending on everything from diamond business that will include exploring Looking forward diamond jewellery to flat screen televisions.
a range of options for potential divestment.
Demand for diamonds and industrial minerals 2012 saw increased volatility in our markets, typically follows peak requirements for During 2012, the Simandou iron ore project particularly in the second half of the year.
In commodities such as iron ore and copper.
Industrial in Guinea joined the product group.
Simandou response, we continued our focus on cost control mineral fundamentals are expected to strengthen is a key pillar in Rio Tintos long-term growth and reduced production of borates.
Excluding in line with urbanisation in emerging markets.
We strategy, involving one of the worlds largest evaluation costs relating to Simandou, underlying are well placed to benefit from improved titanium known undeveloped iron ore reserves.
2012 saw earnings were 52 per cent higher than in 2011. dioxide market conditions through our commercial significant progress and in June, the project We benefited from higher titanium dioxide prices strategy and strong resource position.
In the borate committed a further investment of US$1 billion and continued to replace existing multi-year sales market, we will seek to capture profitable growth Rio Tinto share: US$501 million for detailed contracts with alternative pricing mechanisms.
in emerging economies and maintain our position design studies, and early works and long-lead in established markets.
items, primarily for developing the rail and In September, we doubled our holding in Richards port infrastructure.
Bay Minerals RBM after acquiring BHP Billitons Developing into new, critical markets The need to feed the worlds growing population is an increasingly critical social issue.
Farmers are now turning to borates as an important micronutrient that can increase crop yield and performance.
Recognising the value our borates can create in this growing market, Rio Tinto Minerals has begun supplying speciality products to the agricultural industry, and has set up distribution centres in key markets, in particular in South East Asia.
% 11 Expected per annum growth for borates in agriculture over the next five years.
Borates are helping farmers improve the fertility of their soils.
com 21 Business review Energy Positioned to meet long-term demand Across our coal and uranium operations, we are working towards achieving sector-leading operational performance and maximising productivity.
At the same time, we are defining the best-value development options to meet long-term demand for energy commodities.
Operating highlights Our priorities for 2013 Continue to safely supply the worlds increasing energy needs through operation of large, long-life, Revenue US$m low-cost operations.
5,783 Remain flexible to respond to the impacts of external factors such as global economic volatility and commodity price fluctuations.
Operating cash flow US$m Increase productivity and operational performance across all Energy businesses to increase 724 profitability in the near term while positioning the group to meet forecast long-term demand for coal and uranium.
Underlying earnings US$m Maintain strong relations with customers in expanding energy export markets, particularly in Asia.
283 A year in review of operations in Mozambique with the opening Despite the short-term challenges, we continue of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambiques Benga mine in May.
to see a robust long-term demand outlook for both After a period of robust earnings following the coal and uranium.
We will be working closely with global financial crisis, the performance of the The Energy groups safety performance improved our customers to ensure we understand the value Energy product group declined in 2012 due with the all injury frequency rate reducing from our products deliver to them and how we can to lower prices for coal and uranium, a strong 0.80 to 0.66, an improvement of 17 per cent.
position our businesses even better to be their Australian dollar and escalating input costs.
Looking forward All Energy businesses reacted to these The difficult market conditions for coal and We have a mix of open-pit and underground coal challenges by implementing plans to address uranium have persisted into early 2013.
Our and uranium operations, and a strong suite of declining productivity and the sharp rise in overarching priority is to pursue cost-reduction exploration and development options.
and value-enhancement opportunities throughout undertaking a review of the optimal growth profile Specific achievements in 2012 included: the business.
Our specific focus will be on reducing for all business units in light of market conditions the completion of open-pit mining and the input costs, improving productivity, extracting for coal and uranium, the high-cost operating commencement of back-filling operations more value from tactical business improvement environment in Queensland and New South Wales, at Ranger uranium mine: continued progress programmes and ensuring organisational efficiency and infrastructure constraints in Mozambique.
on the construction of the extension to Kestrel and effectiveness.
We will also seek out ways to underground coal mine: and the commencement encourage greater innovation in everything we do.
Creating value through business improvement The Energy group is reducing costs in response to lower prices, a strong Australian dollar and escalating input costs.
In 2012, Rio Tinto Coal Australia delivered around A$220 million in value through business improvement initiatives.
Our focus is on improving our productivity without compromising on our commitment to safety, which means finding ways to safely deliver more production for less cost.
A$220m value delivered through business improvement initiatives.
Work at Rio Tinto Coal Australias Hunter Valley Operations, New South Wales, Australia.
See page 30 for information on the impairment charge recognised in 2012 relating to Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique.
22 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review View a full review of operations online at Business review Iron Ore riotinto.
com reportingcentre2012 Efficiency boost brings record tonnes Despite volatile weather and shifts in market conditions and while fast-tracking our expansion schedule our focus on value-adding efficiencies helped us achieve another year of record iron ore production in 2012.
Operating highlights Our priorities for 2013 A commitment to improving safety, focusing on critical risk management, safety leadership, Revenue US$m employee development, hazard awareness and the simplification of safety systems.
24,279 Rolling out the Pilbara expansion programme safely and efficiently, while maintaining production at nameplate capacity.
Operating cash flow US$m Protecting shareholder value, by capitalising on being the leading iron ore supplier close to the 15,827 worlds largest, fastest-growing markets.
Closely controlling capital and operating costs to protect margins.
Underlying earnings US$m 9,242 A year in review We made further technology improvements We also made progress negotiating participation in 2012, with a view to enhancing shareholder agreements with traditional owners, and fostering Rio Tintos Iron Ore group achieved net value.
This included reinstating the AutoHaul Aboriginal business and employment.
underlying earnings of US$9,242 million in 2012, system for our Pilbara operations, which is set based on record production of 253 million tonnes Looking forward to be the worlds first automated long-distance Rio Tinto share: 199 million tonnes.
Wherever We are confident in the strength of the long-term heavy-haul rail network.
Other advances in possible, we sought operational improvements demand outlook for iron ore. Increasing global our Mine of the Future programme included to realise productivity gains, with a particular wealth is leading to steel-intensive development deploying driverless trucks, and further expansion emphasis on eliminating bottlenecks.
Standardising in countries where billions of people live.
The of the high-technology Operations Centre in Perth.
the integrated system, with prudent capital expansion of our Pilbara annual capacity to investment and innovation, helped us maximise We have put a number of initiatives in place to the revised target of 360 million tonnes by 2015 ore throughput and enabled us to reach a 260 ensure we remain more than competitive in the remained on track in 2012, following a two-staged million tonne run-rate towards the year end.
race for the best talent, and build the workforce investment process and successful year of project we need for the future.
These include regional Iron Ore Company of Canada IOC enjoyed a solid execution.
All the approvals for the expansion fly-in-fly-out hubs, recruiting apprentices and year, with sales of 14.1 million tonnes for pellets to 290 million tonnes capacity are in place, and graduates, and funding mining-related scholarships.
A six-year labour contract was all rail and port approvals for the 360 million stage are complete.
settled with its unions without disruption, which We continued to work closely with our communities will help maximise benefit from IOCs current in 2012, forging sustainable partnerships and expansion programme.
developing infrastructure in local towns.
Innovation brings growth After five years of planning, water is flowing through the first irrigation centre-pivots at our Hamersley Agricultural Project.
As our orebodies increasingly lie beneath the water table, we need to dewater our pits so we can continue mining safely and efficiently.
Through this innovative project, we are irrigating 850 hectares of land: growing hay for the 25,000 cattle on our pastoral leases, and native plants that will provide seed for mine rehabilitation.
850 hectares of land will be irrigated by the project.
Water flowing through the irrigation pivots in October 2012.
Left-right: Charlie Knight, Rio Tinto agricultural operator, and Terry Redman, Western Australian Minister for Agriculture and Food.
com 23 Summary Remuneration Report Aligning strategic performance with remuneration Dear Shareholder, Incentive plans The simplification of the PSP award structure by As we mentioned last year, a key priority in 2012 On behalf of the board, I am pleased consolidating the current potential for 1.5 times was to review the future structure of our incentive to introduce our 2012 Summary vesting of awards for outstanding performance plans.
Our current long-term incentive plans Remuneration Report.
within the maximum face value of awards of LTIPs, which were approved by shareholders in 438 per cent of base salary i. e. the previous 2004, are due to expire in 2014.
Accordingly, we This report is designed to provide face value of 292 per cent with the potential have undertaken a wide-ranging review of our you with information to demonstrate for 1.5 times vesting.
LTIP arrangements to ensure that they continue to incentivise management to deliver our the link between our Groups Strengthening the alignment of executives long-term strategy.
interests with those of shareholders by strategy, its performance, and increasing the executive shareholding guidelines Based upon the views expressed by shareholders the remuneration outcomes for from two to four times base salary for the chief during our extensive consultations, the Committee its executives.
executive: and from two to three times base is recommending amendments to the Groups LTIPs salary for the other executives.
for approval by shareholders at the 2013 annual The introduction of malus and claw back general meetings.
The new plans incorporate the provisions to provide the Committee with views and feedback from many major shareholders: the ability to reduce or cancel unvested LTIP the Committee is grateful for the time shareholders awards and to recover vested LTIP awards in took to meet with us and was encouraged by the certain circumstances.
overall level of support we received.
The main principles of and changes to our LTIP In order to implement these changes, structure, all within the context of no increased a resolution to approve the rules of the new overall reward opportunity, are: PSP is being submitted to shareholders for approval at the 2013 annual general meetings.
Further The simplification of our LTIP arrangements by detailed information about the proposed new reducing the number of plans from two to a PSP is provided in the notices of meeting for the single Performance Share Plan PSP.
The addition of a new performance measure the The Committee fully intends to keep the Groups improvement in our earnings before interest and long-term incentive arrangements under review, tax EBIT margin relative to the EBIT margin taking into account the practices of our key improvement achieved by our major international competitors.
This review will include competitors to complement the existing Total the percentage of an award under the new PSP Shareholder Return TSR measures.
This that vests for threshold performance, recognising measure provides a good line of sight to that this is an important issue for some of the executives: and, with TSR, incentivises shareholders with whom we consulted.
management to deliver long-term shareholder value while maximising operational performance The Committee recognises the importance in the medium term.
We believe that this EBIT of ensuring that the outcomes of the Groups margin performance measure will provide an executive pay arrangements described in the appropriate means of gauging the sustained Remuneration Report properly reflect the Groups operational performance of our business and overall performance and the experience of its encouraging the cost-competitive operation of shareholders over the performance period.
It will our mining assets, a core part of our strategy.
exercise the discretions reserved to it accordingly.
The extension of the vesting and performance The Committee has also approved some period for awards under the PSP from four years changes to the way we measure health and safety to five.
We consider that this duration more performance in our short-term incentive plan appropriately recognises the timeframes over STIP from 2013.
These changes incorporate which our business operates, reflecting the feedback from shareholders during our long-term nature of our sector, and enhances consultations in 2012.
The weighting of the safety the alignment of our remuneration structure with component will be increased from 17.5 per cent our Company strategy.
to 20 per cent of the overall STIP.
Since 2007, the safety component has been increasingly based on leading indicators to drive safety performance.
From 2013, in order to simplify further the STIP, performance for executives will be judged on safety outcomes rather than programmes to drive future performance.
24 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review The full Remuneration Report is available online.
com reportingcentre2012 2012 performance and remuneration 2013 decisions Governance The financial performance of the business generally We announced in January that Tom Albanese We continue to ensure that the Company meets exceeded targets set by the board at the beginning and Doug Ritchie had stepped down by mutual regulatory and legislative remuneration of 2012.
The board was, however, deeply agreement from their respective roles following the requirements specified by Australian and UK disappointed by the US$14.4 billion write-downs asset write-downs.
The Committee determined that regulation and, as part of this, we held extensive that we have taken in 2012, primarily in our their performance in 2012 did not justify them meetings with shareholders and proxy advisory aluminium and energy businesses.
The individual receiving any STIP award.
bodies in Australia and the UK during the year STIP outcomes for 2012 are a direct reflection of to describe and explain our remuneration policies For other members of the Executive Committee, these features, as detailed more fully in the report and practices.
individual performance in 2012 as well as that follows.
association with the asset write-downs were There have been major initiatives by both the The Committee has reviewed the base salary levels taken into account.
Different levels of STIP award UK and Australian governments to strengthen the for Executive Committee members and, consistent resulted from this, as detailed more fully in the role of owners in the determination of pay policy with our stated policy, it has made adjustments report that follows.
The new UK regulations are expected taking into account the Groups and individual to be finalised in the first half of 2013.
While the The Committee reviewed in detail each component performance, as well as other factors that it final shape of many of these proposals is yet to be of the proposed remuneration package for the new considers relevant such as base salary budgets definitively determined, the format of the full chief executive, Sam Walsh, to ensure that an applying to the broader employee population.
Remuneration Report contained in the 2012 Annual appropriate offer was made to him, focusing on report has been restructured in an attempt to The Committee has considered the Groups overall aligning his potential reward with the aim of capture the spirit of the UK Governments thinking, performance in the context of the LTIP awards that pursuing greater value for shareholders and particularly with regard to the presentation of vested at the end of 2012 and has concluded that increased discipline and accountability throughout a separate Policy Report and an Implementation the vesting of awards based upon the achievement the organisation.
This approach was reflected in Report.
As we said last year, our endeavour in the of TSR measures is justified.
the remuneration packages determined by the Remuneration Report is to explain what we pay Committee for Andrew Harding upon his promotion our senior executives and why.
to become chief executive of the Iron Ore group in Perth, and for Jean-Sbastien Jacques upon his We try to balance the need for a simple narrative promotion to the Executive Committee as chief of the years remuneration events with the appetite executive of the Copper group.
Most recently, of many of our shareholders and our regulators for the Committee reviewed and determined each more detail.
component of the remuneration package for As always, we welcome your feedback on Chris Lynch upon his appointment as chief financial our report.
officer and for Hugo Bague upon his appointment as Group executive, Organisational Resources.
Yours sincerely, The Committee is mindful of the Groups renewed focus and discipline in delivering its strategy under Sam Walshs new leadership and will be taking this into account in shaping the future direction and focus of its short and long-term incentive arrangements for management.
John Varley Remuneration Committee chairman riotinto.
com 25 Summary Remuneration Report continued Our remuneration policies, principles The Committee has increased Sam Walshs base salary The performance shares under the Performance and practices by 14.9 per cent effective 17 January 2013 to reflect his Share Plan PSP awarded in 2009 had a four year appointment as chief executive.
performance period that ended on 31 December 2012.
Rio Tinto operates in global and local markets where This award partially vested at 92.5 per cent 61.7 per it competes for a limited pool of talented executives.
% Base salary cent of the maximum for the executive directors.
High quality people, who are capable of achieving stated in 000 2013 2012 change Share options under the Share Option Plan SOP stretching performance targets, are essential to Sam Walsh A$1,900 A$1,654 14.9 granted in 2010 had a performance period that ended generating superior returns for the Group.
This award vested in full.
Guy Elliott 738 738 0.0 compensation strategies aim to provide this support Options can be exercised from 22 March 2013. by enabling the Group to attract and retain people Tom Albanese 1,056 1,056 0.0 LTIP awards for 2013 whose contribution will increase shareholder value.
Short Term Incentive Plan STIP objectives Subject to shareholder approval of the proposed new Our remuneration policy is based on the principles and outcomes for 2012 of aligning remuneration outcomes with our strategy, PSP, the Committee has decided that the PSP awards in 2013 will have a maximum face value of 420 per cent and of encouraging strong delivery by employees The Committee sets stretching targets for the STIP and by differentiating top performers, whilst achieving of salary.
If the award vests, half vests after four years demands that sustainable business practices are in 2017, and half after five years in 2018.
Vesting will simplicity and transparency in the design and adhered to, particularly in the context of safety.
depend on the Groups performance against its relative The financial performance of the business generally TSR and the relative EBIT margin measures.
The For the purposes of assessing the appropriate level of exceeded targets set by the board at the beginning Committee has decided that no PSP awards will be executive remuneration, the Committee refers to the of 2012.
The board was, however, deeply disappointed granted to Guy Elliott and Tom Albanese in 2013.
FTSE30 excluding financial services companies as by the US$14.4 billion write-downs that we have the initial comparator group.
The FTSE30 is considered TSR performance graph taken in 2012, primarily in our aluminium and energy the most relevant comparator group as it comprises businesses.
The individual STIP outcomes for 2012 Relative TSR is the single performance measure organisations broadly comparable to the Group in are a direct reflection of this business performance.
used to determine the vesting of awards made under terms of global reach, revenue, market capitalisation the PSP and SOP prior to 2013.
Rio Tintos relative Sam Walsh received a STIP award of 108.3 per cent and complexity.
TSR performance has a direct impact on the levels of target out of a maximum potential award of Typically, we aim to position base salaries at the of vesting.
200 per cent, equivalent to 130 per cent of base median of these comparator groups, while our salary, 50 per cent to be delivered in cash in March The graph below illustrates the TSR performance of incentive plans are designed with the potential 2013, and the remainder to be delivered in deferred the Group against the HSBC Global Mining Index and to deliver total remuneration outcomes across the shares, vesting in December 2015.
The Committee the MSCI over the past five years.
These two indices full market range according to business and decided that Tom Albanese and Guy Elliott would are used to assess Rio Tintos relative TSR performance individual performance.
not receive a STIP award for 2012 in light of the for awards made under the PSP from and including impairment charges.
How the Committee spent its time in 2012 2010.
The HSBC Global Mining Index alone is used to determine the vesting of awards made under the SOP.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards During 2012, the Committee met nine times.
It fulfilled The graph has been prepared in accordance with the granted in 2012 its responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference.
requirements of Schedule 8 of the Large and In particular, its work has included: The maximum potential value of PSP awards granted Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts in 2012 is 438 per cent of base salary for the executive reviewing and determining base salary increases for and Reports Regulations 2008 and is not an indication directors.
The eventual value of the award will depend the executives: of the likely vesting of awards granted under the on performance during the years 2012-2015.
Unvested reviewing and determining threshold and outstanding PSP and SOP.
LTIP awards included the 2012 award granted to the performance targets used in the 2012 STIP and so far former chief executive, Tom Albanese, which will lapse in 2013, reviewing actual performance against these when he leaves the Group.
targets as well as establishing the 2013 STIP financial LTIP outcomes for the period ended and safety targets: 31 December 2012 reviewing and determining LTIP grants for the The Committee has considered the Groups overall executives and deciding vesting outcomes: performance in the context of the LTIP awards that a detailed review of the proposed changes to vested at the end of 2012 and has concluded that, the LTIPs: extensive consultation with leading the vesting of awards based upon the achievement shareholders and proxy advisers in Australia and of TSR measures is justified.
the UK in shaping the LTIPs: reviewing and determining the appointment packages for Harry Kenyon-Slaney and Alan Davies as chief executive Energy and chief executive Diamonds & Minerals respectively: and a review of remuneration practices against our TSR US$ Rio Tinto Group vs. the HSBC Global Mining and MSCI World indices comparator groups.
Total return basis Index 2007 100 Most recently, in 2013, the Committee reviewed and determined the terms of departure of Tom Albanese Rio Tinto DLC HSBC Index MSCI World Index as chief executive and of Doug Ritchie.
It also reviewed and determined the terms of appointment for 200 Sam Walsh, as our new chief executive and for Andrew Harding and Jean-Sbastien Jacques as our new chief executives for Iron Ore and Copper 150 respectively.
It also reviewed and determined the terms of appointment for Chris Lynch, our new chief financial officer and for Hugo Bague, upon his 100 appointment as Group executive, Organisational Resources.
Base salary increases in 2013 50 Base salaries are reviewed annually, with reference to: underlying Group and individual performance, global economic conditions, role responsibilities, 0 an assessment against relevant comparator groups, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 internal relativities and base salary budgets applying to the broader employee population.
26 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review Total remuneration The tables below provide a summary of actual remuneration for the directors in respect of 2010, 2011 and 2012 and is stated in the currency of payment.
This is in addition to statutory disclosure requirements set out in the 2012 Annual report which include theoretical accounting values relating to various parts of the remuneration packages, most notably LTIP arrangements.
The purpose of the tables is to enable shareholders better to understand the actual remuneration received and to provide an overview of the actual outcomes of the Groups remuneration arrangements.
Salaries are reviewed with effect from 1 March.
b Value of STIP deferred under the Bonus Deferral Plan BDP.
c Total remuneration for 2012 calculated based on the estimated value of LTIP awards which vested in respect of the performance period that ended 31 December 2012. d Pension or superannuation represents the value of one years pension or superannuation accrual calculated using an IAS19 methodology and assumptions on rates of investment return, inflation and salary increases and is sensitive to changes to those assumptions.
As at 31 December 2012, all executive directors were accruing retirement benefits on a defined benefit basis 2011: three directors.
Additionally, Sam Walsh was accruing additional benefits on a money purchase basis 2011: one director.
Actual contributions of A$63,600 were paid on a money purchase basis on behalf of Sam Walsh 2011: A$59,000 for one director.
Notional pension contributions to money purchase schemes were nil 2011: nil.
These contributions are included in Pension or Superannuation above.
e Other benefits include health care, company provided transport where applicable and other contractual payments, including activities in relation to Rio Tintos sponsorship of the medals for the 2012 London Olympics.
f The maximum potential STIP award is 200 per cent of base salary.
com 27 Summary Remuneration Report continued Executive remuneration structure Consistent with the Groups strategy, the Committee seeks to achieve a remuneration mix which best reflects the long-term nature of the business.
As such, the total remuneration package is designed to provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable components with a focus on long-term variable pay.
Assuming on-target performance under the STIP and LTIP, approximately 75 per cent of total remuneration is at risk with the balance fixed.
The remuneration structure for executive directors, including the relationship between each element of remuneration and Group performance, is summarised below: Link to Group performance Remuneration arrangements Fixed Base salary Provides the fixed element of the Any increases are determined with reference to underlying Group and individual performance, global remuneration package.
economic conditions, role responsibilities, an assessment against relevant comparator groups, internal relativities and base salary budgets applying to the broader employee population.
Reflects an employees sustained contribution to the organisation.
Benefits Provide locally competitive post employment Post-employment benefit arrangements include pension or superannuation and post-retirement and other benefits in a cost-efficient manner.
Other benefits include healthcare, accident insurance, company provided transport, professional advice and secondment and relocation payments made to and on behalf of executives living outside their home country.
Performance related At risk STIP Focuses participants on achieving demanding The maximum annual bonus opportunity for outstanding performance under the STIP for annual performance goals, which are based on executives is 200 per cent of base salary if target performance is achieved, the bonus opportunity the Groups key performance indicators KPIs, is up to 120 per cent of base salary for executive directors and up to 100 per cent of base salary for to create sustainable shareholder value.
We demand that sustainable business practices 50 per cent of the STIP is delivered in cash and 50 per cent is delivered in deferred shares under the are adhered to, particularly around safety.
Threshold, target and outstanding performance levels are established for all STIP measures in order to drive high levels of business and individual performance.
The STIP awards for achieving these performance levels are 50 per cent, 100 per cent and 200 per cent of the target STIP opportunity respectively.
There is no award for below threshold performance.
The financial performance targets are established through an annual planning process, where the product group and Group plans are reviewed and ultimately determined by the board.
Target performance is intended to be stretching.
The threshold and outstanding levels are determined by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each performance year.
The health and safety score for executives is capped at 100 per cent out of a maximum of 200 per cent of the 17.5 per cent health and safety weighting if there is a fatality in their area of accountability.
The extent of the final impact of any fatalities on the STIP score for executives is based on a judgment process that assesses the impact of leadership, individual behaviour and systems in the incident.
An additional adjustment may also be made to the STIP score for executives for severe permanent disability injuries.
The Committee selected the financial measures because they are KPIs used in managing the business.
In measuring performance against the annual plan, the original plan is flexed to exclude the impact of uncontrollable fluctuations in exchange rates, quoted metal prices and other prices.
Earnings and cash flow results are therefore compared against equally weighted flexed and unflexed targets.
Note that from 2013, the health and safety component of the STIP will be increased to 20 per cent and the financial measures will be reduced to 50 per cent.
Individual objectives are tailored to each executive and are based on the achievement of strategic initiatives, cost management, key project deliverables and leadership competencies.
In 2013, there will be a specific focus on management of our cost base within our STIP plan.
Bonus Deferral Plan Ensure ongoing alignment between executives 50 per cent of the STIP is delivered in cash and 50 per cent delivered in deferred shares under BDP and shareholders through deferral of STIP into the BDP.
The BDP vests in the December of the third year after the end of performance year to which they relate.
Performance Share Simple structure to align executive reward with A resolution to approve the rules of the new Performance Share Plan is being submitted to Plan PSP shareholders returns and operational shareholders for approval at the 2013 annual general meetings.
The notices of meeting include this 2013 onwards performance over a truly long-term horizon.
resolution, together with a covering letter and detailed information about the new PSP.
The new PSP rules governing its operation will also be made available at the time this report is published.
In the Award levels are set to incentivise executives to event of any variation between this summary and the new PSP rules, the PSP rules will apply.
meet the long-term strategic goals of the Group, to provide retention for the executive team and As discussed with shareholders during the consultation process, awards under the proposed PSP will to contribute towards the competitiveness of the have a maximum face value of 438 per cent of base salary, which is unchanged from the maximum overall remuneration package.
value available under the current PSP framework.
TSR rewards the deliver of superior returns to The awards have been calculated independently by our external consultants Towers Watson and shareholders over the long term.
Deloitte LLP to have an expected value of approximately 50 per cent of the face value.
This compares with an expected value of approximately 65 per cent of the face value under the current EBIT margin improvement rewards gauging the PSP.
Expected value is face value, adjusted for the probability of the performance target being met.
sustained operational performance of our business and the cost-competitive operation This means that the maximum expected value that could be awarded under the new PSP is of our mining assets, a core part of our strategy.
219 per cent of base salary i. e. 438 per cent x 50 per cent.
How performance is generated is as important Actual award levels proposed for 2013 vary by executive.
In all cases, the maximum face value as what level of performance is delivered.
Before granted to Executive Committee members in 2013 is lower than the maximum value granted vesting the Committee must satisfy itself that to participants under the current PSP in 2012 of 438 per cent of base salary.
relative TSR and EBIT margin performance are an appropriate reflection of the underlying performance of the business and can adjust vesting accordingly.
28 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review Fixed Link to Group performance Remuneration arrangements Performance related At risk continued Performance Share Awards will normally have a five-year Conditional share awards vest subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions, Plan PSP performance period to provide long-term comparing Rio Tintos performance against: 2013 onwards alignment with shareholders.
As a transitional One third: TSR relative to the HSBC Global Mining Index measure, awards granted in 2013 will vest 50 One third: TSR relative to the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index MSCI per cent after four years and 50 per cent after One third: Improvement in EBIT Margin relative to the following ten global mining comparators five years.
for 2013 awards : Alcoa, Antofagasta, Anglo American, Barrick, BHP Billiton, Freeport, Peabody, Teck Resources, Vale and Xstrata Each component of the award will be assessed independently.
With respect to the EBIT margin measure, the Committee will consider, on a discretionary basis, any specific, significant below the line items e. g. impairments reported by Rio Tinto or its peers during the reporting period when determining any level of vesting indicated by third-party data.
The outperformance required for maximum vesting under all components of the award is considered by the Committee to be stretching.
If, but only if, vesting is achieved, participants in the PSP shall be entitled to receive a number of additional shares whose market value reflects the aggregate cash amount of dividends that would have been received had the number of shares which have vested at the end of the performance period been held throughout the performance period.
Previous long-term incentive structure Subject to approval from shareholders at the annual general meetings, from 2013 onwards, long-term incentive awards will be made solely under the proposed PSP as set out in the table above.
In 2012 and prior years, awards were made in the form of options under the SOP and or performance shares under the PSP.
This section summarises the key features of the awards which were made in 2012 under these plans.
No further awards will be made to executives under this structure, assuming approval of the new PSP.
Executives could express a preference regarding the mix of their long term incentive opportunity.
They could choose either a mix of performance shares and share options with a maximum face value performance share award of 200 per cent of base salary, and a performance kicker leading to a vesting up to 1.5 times for exceptional performance, together with a maximum share option award of 300 per cent of base salary: Or alternatively, they could choose to receive the full award in performance shares with a maximum face value performance share award of 292 per cent of base salary, and a performance kicker leading to a vesting up to 1.5 times for exceptional performance.
The maximum value of award from selecting the full award in performance shares was therefore 438 per cent of base salary 292 per cent x 150 per cent.
It is assumed that for 2012 executives selected the full award in performance shares for ease of comparison to grants under the proposed PSP.
The total expected value of awards made under either preference was the same, at 190 per cent of base salary.
Both awards were based solely on relative TSR performance to reward executives for increasing the share price and delivering superior TSR performance against other companies over a long-term timeframe.
Before awards vest, the Committee must also satisfy itself that TSR performance is an appropriate reflection of the underlying performance of the business and or the health of the Group, and has the ability to adjust vesting accordingly.
Performance-related at risk Remuneration arrangements Share Option Plan Three-year performance period.
SOP pre-2013 Awards have a maximum face value of 300 per cent of base salary.
Options vest subject to the achievement of a stretching TSR performance condition, comparing Rio Tintos TSR performance to that of the HSBC Global Mining Index.
The SOP will cease operation from 2013.
No further awards of share options will be made.
Performance Share Four-year performance period.
Plan PSP pre-2013 Subject to the mix chosen see above awards have a maximum face value of 292 per cent of base salary with the potential for 1.5 times of this value, i. e. 438 per cent of base salary, for outstanding performance.
The expected value of awards is 190 per cent of base salary.
For 2012 awards, conditional share awards vest subject to the achievement of a stretching TSR performance condition, comparing Rio Tintos TSR performance against: 50 per cent: the HSBC Global Mining Index 50 per cent: the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index MSCI If, but only if, vesting is achieved, a cash payment will be paid equal to the dividends that would have been received had the number of shares which have vested at the end of the performance period been held throughout the performance period.
Executive director service contracts The directors have service contracts that can be terminated by either party with 12 months notice, or immediately by paying the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
In the case of dismissal for cause, the Company can terminate employment without notice and without payment of any salary or compensation in lieu of notice.
Deferred bonus shares and outstanding awards under the LTIP are forfeited in these circumstances.
If termination is a result of redundancy, the terms of the relevant policy may apply in the same way as for other local employees.
Sam Walsh chief executive Sam Walshs employment concludes, without the need for either party to give notice, on 31 December 2015.
The Company may also terminate Sams employment for any reason on 31 December 2014, provided it gives notice of this decision by 31 October 2014.
In either event, he will not be entitled to any payment on termination of employment other than the value of accrued annual leave and long service leave in accordance with applicable legislation.
The rights if any under any STIP or LTIP plan will be determined in accordance with the terms of the relevant plans.
Chris Lynch chief financial officer-designate Chris Lynch will be on a standard Rio Tinto plc contract which includes a 12-month notice period.
He will receive a remuneration package comprising a base salary of 800,000, target annual bonus opportunity at 120 per cent of base salary, a PSP award with a face value in 2013 of 420 per cent of base salary.
He will receive benefits including pension, medical insurance, relocation costs from Melbourne to London and transitional housing support.
Chriss employment concludes, without the need for either party to give notice on 28 February 2017.
The Company may also terminate Chriss employment for any reason on 29 February 2016, providing it gives notice of this decision by 31 December 2015. riotinto.
com 29 Finance review and summary financial statements Finance review 2012 underlying earnings of US$9,303 million and net loss of US$2,990 million were US$6,246 million below and US$8,816 million below the comparable measures for 2011.
This was in the context of lower average market prices in 2012 which reduced underlying earnings compared with 2011.
The underlying financial results reflect record iron ore production and shipments and a second half recovery in copper volumes.
A pre-tax impairment charge of US$17,194 million, US$14,360 million post-tax, was recognised in 2012, of which US$12,643 million pre-tax, US$11,000 million post-tax, related to the Groups aluminium businesses including Pacific Aluminium.
A post-tax impairment charge of US$2,860 million was also recognised relating to Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique RTCM.
The full year dividend was 167 US cents per share, reflecting a 15 per cent increase compared to 2011.
Summary financial information by business unit At 31 December This summary financial information by business unit section has been extracted from the full financial statements contained within the 2012 Annual report.
Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on their primary product.
The Aluminium group excludes Pacific Aluminium, Other Aluminium and Constellium formerly Alcan Engineered Products excluding Cable which are included in Other Operations.
Comparative amounts for 2011 have been restated to be consistent with the 2012 presentation.
a Gross sales revenue includes 100 per cent of subsidiaries sales revenue and the Groups share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries.
b EBITDA of subsidiaries and the Groups share of EBITDA relating to equity accounted units represents profit before: tax, net finance items, depreciation and amortisation.
Underlying EBITDA excludes the same items that are excluded from Underlying earnings.
c Net earnings represent profit after tax for the period attributable to the owners of the Rio Tinto Group.
Earnings of subsidiaries and equity accounted units are stated before finance items but after the amortisation of discount related to provisions.
Earnings attributed to business units do not include amounts that are excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings.
d Underlying earnings is the key financial performance indicator which management uses internally to assess performance.
Underlying earnings is defined and reconciled to net earnings in note 2 of the 2012 full financial statements.
e Capital expenditure comprises the net cash outflow on purchases less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible assets.
The details provided include 100 per cent of subsidiaries capital expenditure and Rio Tintos share of the capital expenditure of equity accounted units.
Amounts relating to equity accounted units not specifically funded by Rio Tinto are deducted and proceeds from disposals are added before arriving at total capital expenditure reported in the Group cash flow statement.
f Operating assets of subsidiaries comprise net assets excluding post retirement assets and liabilities, net of tax, and are before deducting net debt.
Operating assets are stated after deduction of non-controlling interests, which are calculated by reference to the net assets of the relevant companies ie inclusive of such companies debt and amounts due to or from Rio Tinto Group companies.
30 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review These summary financial statements have been extracted from the full financial statements, which have been reported on by the auditors, and which will be filed with the United Kingdom Registrar of Companies and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission.
The auditors report on the full financial statements is unqualified and does not contain a statement under either Section 498 2 or Section 498 3 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006.
The summary financial statements do not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and affairs of the Group and parent companies as is provided in the full financial statements.
Copies of the 2012 Annual report and full financial statements may be obtained from the addresses shown on page 36.
Summary income statement Years ended 31 December 2012 2011 US$m US$m Continuing operations Consolidated sales revenue 50,967 60,537 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately 37,536 36,260 Impairment charges less reversals 13,953 9,174 Gains and losses on consolidation and on disposal of interests in businesses 845 185 Exploration and evaluation costs 1,970 1,437 Profits on disposal of interests in undeveloped projects 494 89 Operating loss profit 1,153 13,940 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 1,034 704 Impairment after tax of investments in equity accounted units 2,457 592 Loss profit before finance items and taxation 2,576 14,052 Finance items 8 838 Loss profit before taxation 2,568 13,214 Taxation 429 6,439 Loss profit from continuing operations 2,997 6,775 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 7 10 Loss profit for the year 3,004 6,765 attributable to non-controlling interests 14 939 attributable to owners of Rio Tinto net losses earnings 2,990 5,826 Basic loss earnings per share Loss profit from continuing operations 161.3c 303.5c Loss from discontinued operations 0.4c 0.5c Loss profit for the year 161.7c 303.0c Diluted loss earnings per share Loss profit from continuing operations 161.3c 301.5c Loss from discontinued operations 0.4c 0.5c Loss profit for the year 161.7c 301.0c Dividends paid during the year US$m 3,038 2,236 Dividends per share: paid during the year 163.5c 117.0c Dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year 94.5c 91.0c riotinto.
com 31 Finance review and summary financial statements continued Summary statement of comprehensive income Years ended 31 December 2012 2011 US$m US$m Loss profit after tax for the year 3,004 6,765 Other comprehensive income: Currency translation adjustment 674 974 Currency translation on companies disposed of transferred to the income statement 3 46 Cash flow hedge fair value losses gains 67 82 Cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement 99 141 Gains losses on revaluation of available for sale securities 34 236 Gains on revaluation of available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 355 19 Actuarial losses on post retirement benefit plans 420 1,956 Share of other comprehensive loss income of equity accounted units, net of tax 108 48 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 84 468 Other comprehensive loss income for the year, net of tax 62 2,400 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 3,066 4,365 attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 3,192 3,504 attributable to non-controlling interests 126 861 Summary cash flow statement Years ended 31 December 2012 2011 US$m US$m Cash flows from consolidated operations 15,928 26,589 Dividends from equity accounted units 522 799 Cash flows from operations 16,450 27,388 Net interest paid 837 613 Dividends paid to holders of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries 422 548 Tax paid 5,823 6,197 Net cash generated from operating activities 9,368 20,030 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates 1,336 4,156 Disposals of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates 251 387 Purchase of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets 17,458 12,335 Other investing cash flows 369 734 Cash used in investing activities 18,174 16,838 Cash flows before financing activities 8,806 3,192 Cash flows from financing activities Equity dividends paid to owners of Rio Tinto 3,038 2,236 Own shares purchased from owners of Rio Tinto 1,471 5,504 Proceeds from additional borrowings 8,569 4,704 Proceeds from issue of equity to non-controlling interests 2,945 424 Other financing cash flows 680 814 Net cash flow from financing activities 6,325 3,426 Effects of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 49 71 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 2,432 305 Opening cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts 9,654 9,959 Closing cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts 7,222 9,654 32 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review Summary statement of financial position At 31 December 2012 2011 US$m US$m Non-current assets Goodwill 2,774 8,187 Intangible assets 6,628 7,955 Property, plant and equipment 75,131 64,967 Investments in equity accounted units 5,312 9,833 Inventories 423 381 Trade and other receivables 2,603 2,365 Deferred tax assets 3,358 1,875 Other financial assets including tax recoverable and loans to equity accounted units 1,151 1,996 97,380 97,559 Current assets Inventories 6,136 5,307 Trade and other receivables 5,319 6,058 Tax recoverable 153 278 Other financial assets including loans to equity accounted units 533 585 Cash and cash equivalents 7,082 9,670 19,223 21,898 Assets of disposal groups held for sale 970 88 Total assets 117,573 119,545 Current liabilities Borrowings and other financial liabilities 2,228 1,447 Trade and other payables 9,244 9,381 Tax payable 827 2,651 Provisions including post retirement benefits 1,522 1,487 13,821 14,966 Non-current liabilities Borrowings and other financial liabilities 24,591 20,357 Trade and other payables 539 719 Tax payable 383 382 Deferred tax liabilities 4,736 6,210 Provisions including post retirement benefits 15,069 17,670 45,318 45,338 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 413 33 Total liabilities 59,552 60,337 Net assets 58,021 59,208 Capital and reserves Share capital 5,945 5,816 Reserves 40,920 46,723 Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 46,865 52,539 Attributable to non-controlling interest 11,156 6,669 Total equity 58,021 59,208 riotinto.
com 33 Independent auditors statement to the members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited Independent auditors statement We have examined the Summary financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group which comprise the  LLP Summary financial information by business unit, Summary income statement, Summary statement Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors of comprehensive income, Summary cash flow statement, Summary statement of financial position London and the Summary Remuneration Report, within the accompanying 2012 Annual review the Summary financial information.
6 March 2013 In respect of the members of Rio Tinto plc Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the 2012 Annual review in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary financial information  within the 2012 Annual review with the full 2012 annual financial statements and the Remuneration Report Chartered Accountants and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 428 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities Paul Bendall and Investments Commission order dated 22 December 2010 as amended on 17 February 2012, and Partner the regulations made thereunder.
The Summary financial statements do not contain all the disclosures Melbourne required to be included in the full annual financial statements by International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and applicable law in the United Kingdom and applicable 6 March 2013 law in Australia as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated In respect of the members of Rio Tinto Limited 22 December 2010 as amended on 17 February 2012.
Reading the Summary financial statements Liability limited by a scheme approved under therefore, is not a substitute for reading the full 2012 annual financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group.
Professional Standards Legislation We also read the other information contained in the 2012 Annual review and consider the implications for our statement if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary financial information.
The other information comprises the items on pages 1 to 23.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for each companys members as a body in accordance with Section 428 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 in respect of Rio Tinto plc and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission order dated 22 December 2010 as amended on 17 February 2012 in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom and in accordance with Australian Auditing Standard ASA 810 Engagements to Report on Summary Financial Statements.
Our report on the Rio Tinto Groups full 2012 annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinions on those financial statements and the Remuneration Report.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary financial information is consistent with the full 2012 annual financial statements and the Remuneration Report of the Rio Tinto Group for the year ended 31 December 2012 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 428 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission order dated 22 December 2010 as amended on 17 February 2012, and the regulations made thereunder.
34 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review Financial calendar 2013 15 January Fourth quarter 2012 operations review 14 February Announcement of results for 2012 6 March Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2012 final dividend 8 March Record date for 2012 final dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 13 March Record date for 2012 final dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 15 March Publication of 2012 Annual report, 20-F, Annual review and Notices of annual general meetings 19 March Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan and date for electing dividends paid in alternate currency for the 2012 final dividend 4 April Dividend currency conversion date Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited holders electing to receive pounds sterling 11 April Payment date for 2012 final dividend to holders of ordinary shares and ADRs 16 April First quarter 2013 operations review 18 April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc 9 May Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited 16 July Second quarter 2013 operations review 8 August Announcement of half year results for 2013 14 August Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2013 interim dividend 16 August Record date for 2013 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 20 August Record date for 2013 interim dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 21 August Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan and date for electing dividends paid in alternate currency for the 2013 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc 22 August Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan and date for electing dividends paid in alternate currency for the 2013 interim dividend for Rio Tinto Limited 5 September Dividend currency conversion date Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited holders electing to receive pounds sterling 12 September Payment date for 2013 interim dividend to holders of ordinary shares and ADRs 15 October Third quarter 2013 operations review 2014 January Fourth quarter 2013 operations review February Announcement of results for 2013 riotinto.
com 35 Useful information Registered offices Shareholders Former Alcan Inc. shareholders Rio Tinto plc Please refer to the Investor Centre of the respective Computershare Investor Services Inc. 2 Eastbourne Terrace registrar if you have any queries about your shareholding.
9th Floor London 100 University Avenue Rio Tinto plc W2 6LG Toronto, ON M5J 2Y1 Computershare Investor Services PLC Registered in England Ontario The Pavilions No.
com Telephone: 44 0 870 703 6364 Investor Centre Rio Tinto Limited Fax: 44 0 870 703 6119 Investor Centre is Computershares free, secure, self Level 33 UK residents only, service website, where shareholders can manage their 120 Collins Street freephone: 0800 435021 holdings online.
The website enables shareholders to: Melbourne Website: www.
com View share balances Victoria 3000 Holders of Rio Tinto American Depositary Receipts ABN 96 004 458 404 Change address details ADRs View payment and tax information Telephone: 61 0 3 9283 3333 Please contact the ADR administrator if you have any Fax: 61 0 3 9283 3707 queries about your ADRs.
Update payment instructions Website: riotinto.
com ADR administrator In addition, shareholders who register their email address Rio Tintos agent in the US is Cheree Finan, JPMorgan Chase & Co on Investor Centre, can be notified electronically of events who may be contacted at PO Box 64504 such as annual general meetings, and can receive Rio Tinto Services Inc. St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 shareholder communications such as the annual report or 80 State Street notice of meeting electronically online.
Telephone: 1 651 453 2128 Albany, NY 12207-2543 US residents only, toll free general: 800 990 1135 Rio Tinto plc shareholders US residents only, toll free Global invest direct: www.
co. uk riotinto 800 428 4237 Rio Tinto Limited shareholders Website: www.
com Rio Tinto Limited Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited GPO Box 2975 Melbourne Victoria 3001 Telephone: 61 0 3 9415 4030 Fax: 61 0 3 9473 2500 Australian residents only, toll free: 1800 813 292 New Zealand residents only, toll free: 0800 450 740 Website: www.
com 36 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual review Sustainable development Annual report Annual review There is more information available online Archive riotinto.
com This review forms part of our 2012 Reporting centre Annual review Annual report Sustainable development 2012 corporate reporting suite.
You can view our Annual report, Annual review and Sustainable development report online at: Pursuing greater value for shareholders riotinto.
com reportingcentre2012 Sam Walsh sets the context for Our 2012 suite of corporate reports presents a complete this years reports picture of how we have performed during the year and gives Watch the interview context to our actions and priorities.
Highlights from around our business, including a summary of our 2012 performance Visit website Download PDF Scan this code to view the reporting Sitemap | Privacy | Cookies | Terms & Conditions | Help | AccessibilityStay up to date with us centre on your mobile or tablet This document is printed by Park Cautionary statement about forward-looking statements Communications.
Park is an EMAS certified This document contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Rio Tinto Group.
CarbonNeutral Company and its The words intend, aim, project, anticipate, estimate, plan, believes, expects, may, should, will, or similar expressions, commonly identify such Environmental Management System is forward-looking statements.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press Examples of forward-looking statements in this Annual review include those regarding estimated ore reserves, anticipated production or construction dates, costs, chemicals are recycled for further use and outputs and productive lives of assets or similar factors.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors on average 99% of any waste associated with set forth in this document that are beyond the Groups control.
For example, future ore reserves will be based in part on market prices that may vary significantly this production will be recycled.
These may materially affect the timing and feasibility of particular developments.
Other factors include theability to produce and transport products profitably, demand for our products, the effect offoreign currency exchange rates on market prices and operating costs, and activities by governmental This document is printed on Heaven 42: authorities, such as changes in taxation or regulation, and political uncertainty.
a paper sourced from well managed, sustainable, FSC certified forests, and In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, actual results could be materially different from projected future results expressed or implied by these bleached using a chlorine free process.
forward-looking statements which speak only as to the date of this report.
Except as required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events.
The Group cannot guarantee that its Design and production by Black Sun Plc forward-looking statements will not differ materially from actual results.
com reportingcentre2012 Find out more about our business and performance View our full 2012 Annual report View our full 2012 Sustainable development report
