Business Support & Operations At the end of 2012, the Business Support & Operations BS&O group on a global basis so that only the most attractive opportunities are comprised Rio Tintos Exploration business see below, as well as pursued.
Priorities are determined in consultation with the product Business Evaluation, Economics & Markets, Group Risk, Global Business groups, with decisions driven not by location or choice of commodity Services Information Systems & Technology, Procurement, Shared but by the quality of each opportunity.
Services and Group Property, Rio Tinto Japan and Rio Tinto Singapore The Exploration group is organised geographically into regional multiHoldings.
From an administrative point of view, the Group Audit & commodity teams, with head offices in London, Salt Lake City, Brisbane, Assurance function sat within BS&O, but operates independently of Beijing and Singapore.
This structure provides a global reach and a local management under a mandate approved by the Audit and Sustainability presence that allows for effective community engagement and committees.
see pages 75 and 77. development of Rio Tintos social licence to operate.
Pacific Aluminium and Other Aluminium were also part of BS&O: these comprise non-core bauxite, alumina and aluminium assets that, in 2011, Safety Rio Tinto announced its intention to divest or close.
In March 2012, the The Exploration groups all injury frequency rate improved from 1.52 Lynemouth aluminium smelter in the UK was closed and is currently at the end of 2011 to 1.41 at the end of 2012.
Work to improve safety being decommissioned.
In December, Lynemouth Power Station was performance includes an ongoing safety diagnostic process to drive soldto German energy company RWE.
During 2012, Rio Tinto sold the operational performance improvements through 2013.
Specialty Alumina business four plants in France and Germany to funds affiliated to H. I. G. and Alcan Cable which has operations in North Performance America and China to General Cable.
An Order of Magnitude resource study programme over the Saskatchewan potash project in Canada a joint venture with North Atlantic Potash Inc.
In 2012, BS&O contributed 41 per cent of Rio Tintos total greenhouse gas a subsidiary of JSC Acron neared completion.
This phase of the resource GHG emissions, compared with 44 per cent in 2011.
Pacific Aluminium study programme will be finalised during 2013, and accountability for the accounted for 29 per cent of the Groups total GHG emissions in 2012, project will be handed over to the Diamonds & Minerals product group.
and Other Aluminium accounted for 11 per cent.
BS&Os all injury In the US an extensive drilling programme at Tamarack, Minnesota, has frequency rate improved to 0.60 in 2012, from 0.69 in 2011. indicated potential for a major  metal resource.
Exploration This will advance to an Order of Magnitude study in 2013.
The Group has had a sustained commitment to exploration since Drilling at the Roughrider uranium project in Saskatchewan, Canada, has 1946and considers exploration to be one of its leading capabilities.
outlined extensions to the known mineralisation at the Far East Resource Fundamental to the exploration strategy is a focus on Tier 1 resources: and ongoing exploration has identified new targets for follow-up.
the largest, lowest-cost resources that are profitable at all parts of the commodity cycle.
Established Group operations, such as Weipa, the In the brownfield environment, Exploration is close to completing Order of Magnitude studies over coking coal projects at Mt Robert, Elphinstone Pilbara and Rssing, were Tier 1 greenfield discoveries by Rio Tinto where value is still being realised after more than 40 years of production.
and Valeria in the Bowen Basin, Australia.
Drilling at Goethite Bay and Carol Lake in the orbit of the Iron Ore Company of Canada identified The Exploration group conducts both greenfield and brownfield potentially significant iron ore resources with favourable metallurgical exploration programmes and also supports business development groups characteristics.
In Namibia, a uranium resource was defined at Z20 on in evaluating merger and acquisition opportunities.
Greenfield exploration theRssing mine lease and is being drilled out in greater detail.
aims to establish new operating business units, involving geographic or commodity diversification away from existing Group operations.
Progress continued on the development of the VK1 airborne gravity Brownfield exploration is directed at sustaining or growing existing gradiometer, with further test flying undertaken in 2012.
Gross cash expenditure on exploration and evaluation across all of This table shows Explorations Tier 1 discoveries since 2002: Rio Tinto in 2012 was US$1,970 million, representing a US$533 million increase over 2011 gross expenditure of US$1,437 million due to an Year Discovery Commodity Location increased share of evaluation costs at Oyu Tolgoi and ramp-up of a 2002 Resolution Copper US number of other evaluation projects.
Gross expenditure was offset 2004 Simandou Iron ore Guinea by US$494 million pre-tax proceeds from divestment of unrequired 2005 La Granja Copper Peru exploration assets.
Of the 2012 total spend, US$234 million related 2005 Caliwingina Iron ore Australia to global Exploration group activity covering nine commodities across arange of greenfield and brownfield environments.
2008 Sulawesi Nickel Indonesia 2008 Mutamba Titanium Mozambique Outlook 2009 Jadar Lithium borates Serbia In 2013, the Exploration group will be active in at least 20 countries 2011 Amargosa Bauxite Brazil exploring for a range of commodities in a variety of greenfield and brownfield environments.
Maintaining a robust exploration pipeline At the end of 2012, the Exploration group was active in 20 countries and by identifying and securing access to the best-quality opportunities assessing opportunities in several others for a range of commodities will be akey enabler of long-term success and there will be particular including iron ore, copper, bauxite, coking coal, nickel, potash, uranium focus onproject generation in a number of key environments.
Exploration activities in China were conducted through CRTX, a newly established joint venture between Chinalco and For 2013 the list of projects moving towards potential discovery includes: Rio Tinto.
Responsibility for diamond exploration projects in Africa, Project Commodity Country Stage Canada and India was handed over to the Diamonds & Minerals group Bowen Basin Coking coal Australia Order of Magnitude late in 2012.
Saskatchewan Potash Canada Order of Magnitude Amargosa orbit Bauxite Brazil Project of Merit Strategy and strategic priorities The goal of Exploration is to create value for Rio Tinto through the Sanxai Bauxite Laos Project of Merit discovery or acquisition of Tier 1 resources that can increase future Tamarack Nickel US Order of Magnitude value.
To pass modern community, sustainability and investment hurdles, As at 1 March 2013, BS&O was restructured, and its constituent businesses and functions now the exploration process can take ten to 20 years from target generation to report into the chief financial officer, and the Organisational Resources and Legal, External & development decisions.
Exploration programmes are therefore prioritised Regulatory Affairs functions.
