Governance Shareholder information Shareholder information In order to achieve this third objective, the Sharing Agreement provided Organisational structure for the ratio of dividend, voting and capital distribution rights attached The Rio Tinto Group consists of Rio Tinto plc, which is registered in toeach Rio Tinto plc share and to each Rio Tinto Limited share to be England and Wales under company number 719885, and is listed on fixedin an Equalisation Ratio which has remained unchanged at 1:1. theLondon Stock Exchange, and Rio Tinto Limited, which is registered TheSharing Agreement has provided for this ratio to be revised in special inAustralia under ABN 96 004 458 404, and is listed on the Australian circumstances where, for example, certain modifications are made to Securities Exchange.
Rio Tinto is headquartered in London and has theshare capital of one Company, such as rights issues, bonus issues, executive offices in Melbourne.
share splits and share consolidations, but not to the share capital of theother.
Outside these specified circumstances, the Equalisation Ratio Nomenclature and financial data can only be altered with the approval of shareholders under the Class Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited operate together and are referred to Rights Action approval procedure described under Voting rights.
In inthis report as Rio Tinto, the Rio Tinto Group or, more simply, the Group.
addition, any adjustments are required to be confirmed by the Groups These collective expressions are used for convenience only, since both external auditors.
Companies, and the individual companies in which they directly or indirectly own investments, are separate and distinct legal entities.
Consistent with the creation of the DLC structure, directors of each Company seek to act in the best interests of Rio Tinto as a whole.
The Class Rights Limited, plc, Pty, Inc. Limitada, L. L. C. A. S. or SA have Action approval procedure is intended to deal with instances where there generally been omitted from Group company names, except to may be a conflict of interest between the shareholders of each Company.
distinguish between Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Financial data inUS dollars US$ is derived from, and should be read in conjunction To ensure that the boards of both Companies are identical, resolutions with, the 2012 financial statements.
In general, financial data in pounds toappoint or remove directors must be put to shareholders of both sterling and Australian dollars A$ have been translated from the Companies as a joint electorate as Joint Decisions as described under consolidated financial statements and have been provided solely for Voting rights.
It is a requirement that a person can only be a director of convenience: exceptions arise where data can be extracted directly from one Company if that person is also a director of the other Company.
Certain key information has been provided in all three for example, if a person was removed as a director of Rio Tinto plc, he or currencies in the 2012 financial statements.
she would also cease to be a director of Rio Tinto Limited.
One consequence of the DLC merger is that Rio Tinto is subject to a wide History range of laws, rules and regulatory review across multiple jurisdictions.
Rio Tinto plc was incorporated on 30 March 1962 then called The Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation Limited RTZ and was formed by the Where these rules differ, Rio Tinto, as a Group, aims to comply with the strictest applicable level.
merger of The Rio Tinto Company and The Consolidated Zinc Corporation.
The Rio Tinto Company was incorporated in 1873 to reopen ancient Dividend rights copper workings in Spain.
The Consolidated Zinc Corporations origins The Sharing Agreement provides for dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and trace back to the Australian mining industry in the early twentieth Rio Tinto Limited shares to be equalised on a net cash basis, that is century.
Operating out of Broken Hill in New South Wales, it came to without taking into account any associated tax credits.
Dividends are prominence with the mining of silver, lead and zinc deposits and later determined in US dollars and are then, except for ADR holders, translated expanded into lead and zinc smelting.
and paid in sterling and Australian dollars.
The Companies are also Rio Tinto Limited was incorporated on 17 December 1959 then called required to announce and pay their dividends and other distributions as The Rio Tinto Mining Company of Australia Limited and in 1962 the close in time to each other as possible.
Australian interests of Consolidated Zinc Corporation and the Rio Tinto In the unlikely event that one Company did not have sufficient Company Limited of the United Kingdom were merged to form Conzinc distributable reserves to pay the equalised dividend or the equalised Riotinto of Australia Limited as a limited liability company under the laws capital distribution, it would be entitled to receive a top up payment from of the State of Victoria, Australia.
In 1980, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia the other Company.
The top up payment could be made as a dividend on Limited changed its name to CRA Limited.
the DLC Dividend Share, or by way of a contractual payment.
Between 1962 and 1995, both RTZ and CRA discovered important If the payment of an equalised dividend would contravene the law mineraldeposits, developed major mining projects and also grew applicable to one of the Companies, then they may depart from the throughacquisition.
However, should such a departure occur, then the RTZ and CRA began operating in 1995 through a dual listed companies relevant Company will put aside reserves to be held for payment on the structure.
In 1997, the RTZ Corporation became Rio Tinto plc and CRA relevant shares at a later date.
Limited became Rio Tinto Limited, together known as the Rio Tinto Group.
Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to enforce the dividend In 2007, Rio Tinto completed an agreed takeover of the Canadian equalisation provisions of the Sharing Agreement.
The DLC Dividend Shares can also be utilised to provide the Group with flexibility for internal funds management by allowing dividends to be paid Dual listed companies structure between the two parts of the Group.
Such dividend payments are of no In 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the terms of the dual listed economic significance to the shareholders of either Company, as they will companies merger the DLC structure which was designed to place have no effect on the Groups overall resources.
theshareholders of both Companies in substantially the same position asif they held shares in a single entity owning all of the assets of Voting rights bothCompanies.
In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides for the shareholders of Following the approval of the DLC structure, both Companies entered RioTinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint electorate on all intoa DLC Merger Sharing Agreement the Sharing Agreement through matters which affect shareholders of both Companies in similar ways.
which each Company agreed to ensure that the businesses of Rio Tinto These are referred to as Joint Decisions.
Such Joint Decisions include the plc and Rio Tinto Limited are managed together, to ensure that the creation of new classes of share capital, the appointment or removal of boards of directors of each Company are the same, and to give effect to directors and auditors and the receiving of the annual financial certain arrangements designed to provide shareholders of each Company statements.
All shareholder resolutions including Joint Decisions are with a common economic interest in the DLC structure.
com 127 Shareholder information continued The Sharing Agreement also provides for the protection of shareholders Capital distribution rights of each Company by requiring their separate approval for decisions that If either of the Companies goes into liquidation, the Sharing Agreement do not affect the shareholders of both Companies equally.
Matters provides for a valuation to be made of the surplus assets of both requiring this approval procedure are referred to as Class Rights Actions Companies.
If the surplus assets available for distribution by one and are voted on a poll.
For example, fundamental elements of the DLC Company on each of the shares held by its shareholders exceed the merger cannot be changed unless approved separately by shareholders surplus assets available for distribution by the other Company on each of of both Companies under the Class Rights Action approval procedure.
the shares held by its shareholders, then an equalising payment between the two Companies shall be made, to the extent permitted by applicable Exceptions to these principles can arise in situations such as where law, such that the amount available for distribution on each share held by legislation requires the separate approval of a decision by the appropriate shareholders of each Company conforms to the Equalisation Ratio.
The majority of shareholders in one Company and approval of the matter by objective is to ensure that the shareholders of both Companies have shareholders of the other Company is not required.
equivalent rights to the assets of the combined Group on a per share Where a matter has been expressly categorised as either a Joint Decision basis, taking account of the Equalisation Ratio.
or a Class Rights Action, the directors do not have the power to change The Sharing Agreement does not grant any enforceable rights to the that categorisation.
If a matter falls within both categories, it is treated as shareholders of either Company upon liquidation of a Company.
In addition, the directors can determine that matters not expressly listed in either category should be put to shareholders for Limitations on ownership of shares and merger obligations their approval under either procedure.
The laws and regulations of the UK and Australia impose restrictions and obligations on persons who control interests in publicly listed companies To facilitate the joint voting arrangements each Company has entered in excess of defined thresholds that, under certain circumstances, include into shareholder voting agreements.
Each Company has issued a obligations to make a public offer for all of the outstanding issued shares SpecialVoting Share to a special purpose company held in trust by of the relevant company.
The threshold applicable to Rio Tinto plc under acommon Trustee.
UK law and regulations is 30 per cent and to Rio Tinto Limited under Rio Tinto plc has issued its Special Voting Share RTP Special Voting Australian law and regulations is 20 per cent on a stand alone basis or, Share to RTL Shareholder SVC and Rio Tinto Limited has issued its taking into account only Rio Tinto plc interests, on a Joint Decision basis.
Special Voting Share RTL Special Voting Share to RTP Shareholder SVC.
As part of the DLC merger, the Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and The total number of votes cast on Joint Decisions by the shareholders of the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited were amended with the intention of one Company are voted at the parallel meeting of the other Company.
extending these laws and regulations to the combined enterprise and, The role of these special purpose companies in achieving this is inparticular, to ensure that a person cannot exercise control over one described below.
Company without having made offers to the public shareholders of both In exceptional circumstances, certain shareholders of the Companies Companies.
It is consistent with the creation of the single economic canbe excluded from voting at the respective Companys general enterprise, and the equal treatment of the two sets of shareholders, that meetings because they have acquired shares in one Company in excess these laws and regulations should operate in this way.
The Articles of of a given threshold without making an offer for all the shares in the Association of Rio Tinto plc and the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited other Company.
If this should occur, the votes cast by these excluded impose restrictions on any person who controls, directly or indirectly, shareholders will be disregarded.
20per cent or more of the votes on a Joint Decision.
If, however, such aperson only has an interest in either Rio Tinto Limited or Rio Tinto plc, Following the Companies general meetings the overall results of the then the restrictions will only apply if they control, directly or indirectly, voting are announced to the stock exchanges, to the media in the UK 30 per cent or more of the votes at that Companys general meetings.
andAustralia, and published on the Rio Tinto website.
If one of the thresholds specified above is breached then, subject to At a Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting at which a Joint Decision is certain limited exceptions and notification by the relevant Company, considered, each Rio Tinto plc share carries one vote and the holder of suchpersons may not attend or vote at general meetings of the relevant itsSpecial Voting Share has one vote for each vote cast by the public Company, may not receive dividends or other distributions from the shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited.
The holder of the Special Voting Share relevant Company, and may be divested of their interest by the directors is required to vote strictly, and only, in accordance with the votes cast of the relevant Company.
These restrictions continue to apply until such bypublic shareholders for and against the equivalent resolution at the persons have either made a public offer for all of the publicly held shares parallel Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting.
of the other Company, or have reduced their controlling interest below The holders of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares do not actually hold the thresholds specified, or have acquired through a permitted means anyvoting shares in Rio Tinto plc by virtue of their holding in Rio Tinto atleast 50 per cent of the publicly held shares of each Company.
Limited and cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to the These provisions are designed to ensure that offers for the publicly held Special Voting Share.
shares of both Companies would be required to avoid the restrictions set At a Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting at which a Joint Decision is out above, even if the interests which breach the thresholds are only held considered, each Rio Tinto Limited share carries one vote and the holder in one of the Companies.
The directors do not have the discretion to of its Special Voting Share will have one vote for each vote cast by the exempt a person from the operation of these rules.
public shareholders of Rio Tinto plc in their parallel meeting.
The holder Under the Sharing Agreement, the Companies agree to co-operate of the Special Voting Share is required to vote strictly, and only, in toenforce the restrictions contained in their Articles of Association accordance with the votes cast for and against the equivalent resolution andConstitution.
at the parallel Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting.
The holders of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares do not actually hold any voting shares in Rio Tinto Limited by virtue of their holding in Rio Tinto plc and cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to the Special Voting Share.
128 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Governance Shareholder information As at 19 February 2013, there were 45,666 holders of record of RioTinto Guarantees plcs shares.
Of these holders, 364 had registered addresses in the US In 1995, each Company entered into a Deed Poll Guarantee in favour of creditors of the other Company.
Pursuant to the Deed Poll Guarantees, and held a total of 494,542 Rio Tinto plc shares, representing 0.03 per cent of the total number of Rio Tinto plc shares issued and outstanding each Company guaranteed the contractual obligations of the other Company as at such date.
In addition, 110,519,168 Rio Tinto plc shares were and the obligations of other persons which are guaranteed by the other registered in the name of a custodian account in London which Company, subject to certain limited exceptions.
Beneficiaries under the Deed Poll Guarantees may make demands upon the guarantor thereunder represented 7.75 per cent of Rio Tinto plc shares issued and outstanding.
These shares were represented by 110,519,168 Rio Tinto plc ADRs held of without first having recourse to the Company or persons whose obligations record by 400 ADR holders.
In addition, certain accounts of record with are being guaranteed.
The obligations of the guarantor under each Deed registered addresses other than in the US hold shares, in whole or in part, Poll Guarantee expire upon termination of the Sharing Agreement and beneficially for US persons.
under other limited circumstances, but only in respect of obligations arising after such termination and, in the case of other limited circumstances, Rio Tinto Limited the publication and expiry of due notice.
The shareholders of the Rio Tinto Limited shares are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange Companies cannot enforce the provisions of the Deed Poll Guarantees.
The ASX is the principal trading market for Rio Tinto Limited shares.
The ASX is a national stock exchange with an automated trading system.
Markets As at 19 February 2013, there were 207,950 holders of record of Rio Tinto plc The principal market for Rio Tinto plc shares is the London Stock RioTintoLimited shares.
Of these holders, 302 had registered addresses Exchange with the shares trading through the Stock Exchange Electronic inthe US, representing approximately 0.04 per cent of the total number of RioTinto Limited shares issued and outstanding as of such date.
In Trading Service SETS system.
addition, nominee accounts of record with registered addresses other Rio Tinto plc shares are also listed on NYSE Euronext Brussels and its than in the US may hold Rio Tinto Limited shares, in whole or in part, American depositary receipts are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Rio Tinto plc delisted from NYSE Euronext Paris with effect from 23 February 2012.
Category Depositary actions Associated fee Depositing or substituting Issuance of ADSs against the deposit of shares, including US$5.00 per 100 ADSs or portion thereof theunderlying shares deposits and issuance in respect of: evidenced by the new ADSs delivered r Share distributions, stock split, rights, merger r Exchange of securities or other transactions r Other events or distributions affecting the ADSs or the deposited securities Selling or exercising rights Distribution or sale of securities, the fee being in an amount US$5.00 for each 100 ADSs equal to the fee for the execution and delivery of ADSs which orportionthereof would have been charged as a result of the deposit of suchsecurities Withdrawing an Acceptance of ADSs surrendered for withdrawal of US$5.00 for each 100 ADSs or portion underlyingshare depositedsecurities thereof evidenced by the ADSs surrendered Transferring, splitting or Transfers, combining or grouping of depositary receipts US$2.50 per ADS grouping receipts General depositary services, r Other services performed by the depositary in administering US$0.02 per ADS or portion thereof not particularly those charged the ADRs more than once each calendar year and onanannual basis payable at the sole discretion of the r Provide information about the depositarys right, if any, to depositary by billing holders or deducting collect fees and charges by offsetting them against dividends such charge from one or more cash dividends received and deposited securities or other cash distributions Expenses of the depositary Expenses incurred on behalf of holders in connection with: Expenses payable at the sole discretion of the depositary by billing holders or by deducting r Compliance with foreign exchange control regulations or any charges from one or more cash dividends or law or regulation relating to foreign investment other cash distributions r The depositarys or its custodians compliance with applicable law, rule or regulation r Stock transfer or other taxes and other governmental charges r Cable, telex, facsimile and electronic transmission delivery r Expenses of the depositary in connection with the conversion of foreign currency into US dollars which are paid out of such foreign currency r Any other charge payable by the depositary or its agents riotinto.
com 129 Shareholder information continued The shareholders who have provided such, or an equivalent, notice are: American depositary receipts ADRs Rio Tinto plc has a sponsored ADR facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank NA Percentage of JPMorgan under a Deposit Agreement, dated 13 July 1988, as amended Number of issued share Rio Tinto plc Date of notice shares capital on 11 June 1990, as further amended and restated on 15 February 1999, 18 February 2005 when JPMorgan became Rio Tinto plcs depositary and The Capital Group on 29 April 2010.
The ADRs evidence Rio Tinto plc American Depositary Companies, Inc 13 Jun 2006 41,031,494 3.90 Shares ADS, each representing one ordinary share.
29 Jan 2008 48,493,873 4.86 registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, are Capital Research and listed on the NYSE and are traded under the symbol RIO.
Management Company 2 Jul 2009 75,461,183 4.95 BlackRock Inc. 4 Dec 2009 127,744,871 8.38 Fees and charges payable by a holder of ADSs In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, JPMorgan may Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd 13 Mar 2012 182,550,329 12.7 charge holders of Rio Tinto ADSs, either directly or indirectly, fees or charges up to the amounts described in the table on the previous page.
Rio Tinto Limited BlackRock Group 1 Feb 2013 21,861,589 5.02 Fees and payments made by the depositary to the issuer a JPMorgan has agreed to reimburse certain company expenses related Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd 4 Feb 2008 tothe Rio Tinto plc ADR programme and incurred by the Group a Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd, a Singapore-based entity owned by Chinalco Aluminum Corporation inconnection with the programme.
The Group is entitled to receive of China holds 182,550,329 Rio Tinto plc shares.
Through the operation of Australian US$1.05million in respect of expenses incurred by the Group in Corporations Act as modified, this interest gives these entities and their associates voting power of 9.8 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision matter, making them connection with the ADR programme for the year ended 31 December substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited, as well as of Rio Tinto plc.
JPMorgan didnot pay any amount on the Groups behalf to third parties.
JPMorgan also waived certain of its standard fees and expenses As far as is known, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are not directly associated with theadministration of the programme relating to routine orindirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by any programme maintenance, reporting, distribution of cash dividends, government or natural person.
Rio Tinto is not aware of any arrangement annual meeting services and report mailing services.
which may result in a change in control.
No shareholder possesses voting rights that differ from those attaching to Rio Tinto plcs and Rio Tinto Under certain circumstances, including removal of JPMorgan as Limiteds securities.
depositary or termination of the ADR programme by the Company, the Company is required to repay JPMorgan any amounts of administrative As of 19 February 2013, the total amount of the Groups voting securities fees and expenses waived during the 12-month period prior to notice of owned by the directors in Rio Tinto plc was 191,930 ordinary shares of removal or termination.
10p each and in Rio Tinto Limited was 60,092 ordinary shares, in aggregate representing less than one per cent of the Groups total number of shares Share ownership in issue.
Substantial shareholders Under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Australian Corporations Act, any shareholder of Rio Tinto plc with voting rights of three per cent or more, or any person with voting power of five per cent or more in Rio Tinto Limited, is required to provide the Companies with notice.
The shares are listed on the NYSE in the form of American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
b The total issued share capital is made up of 1,411,884,686 publicly held shares: 13,612,273 shares held in Treasury.
c Publicly held shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
130 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Governance Shareholder information Twenty largest registered shareholders In accordance with the ASX Listing Rules, below are the names of the 20 largest registered holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the number of shares and the percentage of issued capital each holds: Percentage Number of issued Rio Tinto Limited of shares share capital HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited 89,470,664 20.53 J. P. Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 60,892,759 13.97 National Nominees Limited 51,569,088 11.83 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 17,336,936 3.98 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd DRP 10,965,711 2.52 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited Colonial First State Inv a c 9,498,938 2.18 J. P. Morgan Nominees Australia Limited Cash Income a c 8,492,224 1.95 AMP Life Limited BSP a c 4,278,397 0.98 UBS Wealth Management Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 3,957,974 0.91 Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited 3,599,706 0.83 Argo Investments Limited 2,456,539 0.56 HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited NT Comnwlth Super Corp a c 2,333,748 0.54 Perpetual Trustee Company Limited 1,885,764 0.43 BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd Agency Lending DRP a c 1,510,879 0.35 Navigator Australia Ltd MLC Investment Sett a c 944,886 0.22 UBS Nominees Pty Ltd 908,850 0.21 Woodross Nominees Pty Ltd 825,181 0.19 Australian United Investment Company Limited 815,000 0.19 UBS Nominees Pty Ltd 665,000 0.15 QIC Limited 623,000 0.14 273,031,244 62.66 Large registered shareholders are nominees who hold securities on behalf of beneficial shareholders.
2012 dividends Dividends The 2012 interim and final dividends were determined at 72.5 US cents Both Companies have paid dividends on their shares every year since and at 94.5 US cents per share respectively and the applicable conversion incorporation in 1962.
The rights of Rio Tinto shareholders to receive rates for the interim and final dividend were US$1.56160 and US$1.56610 dividends are explained under the description of the Dual listed to the pound sterling and US$1.05825 and US$1.03090 to the Australian companies structure on page 127. dollar respectively.
For those Rio Tinto plc shareholders who elected to Dividend policy receive their interim dividend in Australian dollars the applicable The aim of Rio Tintos progressive dividend policy is to increase the US conversion rate was A$1.54975 and for Rio Tinto Limited shareholders dollar value of ordinary dividends over time.
The rate of the total annual who elected to receive their dividend in sterling the applicable conversion dividend, in US dollars, is determined taking into account the results for rate was 0.64527. the past year and the outlook.
Under Rio Tintos dividend policy, the Final dividends of 60.34 pence or 91.67 Australian cents per share will interim dividend is set at one half of the total ordinary dividend for the bepaid on 11 April 2013.
For those Rio Tinto plc shareholders requesting previous year and the final ordinary dividend is expected to be at least the 2012 final dividend be paid in Australian dollars, those holders of equal to the previous interim dividend.
RioTinto plc ADRs each representing one share and those Rio Tinto Limited shareholders requesting the 2012 final dividend be paid in Dividend determination pounds sterling, the applicable conversion rates will be announced on The majority of the Groups sales are transacted in US dollars, making 4April 2013. this the most reliable measure for the Groups global business performance.
It is Rio Tintos main reporting currency and consequently The charts on the next page set out the amounts of interim and final the natural currency for dividend determination.
Dividends determined dividends paid or payable on each share or ADR in respect of each inUS dollars are translated at exchange rates prevailing two days prior financial year, but before deduction of any withholding tax.
tothe announcement and are then declared payable in sterling by These have been restated for the impact of the 2009 rights issues and RioTinto plc and in Australian dollars by Rio Tinto Limited.
On request, theADR ratio change.
shareholders of Rio Tinto plc can elect to receive dividends in Australian dollars and shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited can elect to receive dividends in sterling.
These dividend amounts are calculated by converting the declared dividend using currency exchange rates applicable five business days prior to the dividend payment date.
Shareholders who wish to receive their dividends in any other currencies should contact the Companies share registrars, who also offer payment services in other currencies, subject to a fee.
com 131 Shareholder information continued Dividend reinvestment plan DRP 2008 2012 2011 2010 2009 restated Rio Tinto offers a DRP to registered shareholders, which provides the opportunity to use cash dividends to purchase Rio Tinto shares in the Rio Tinto Group US cents per share market.
Due to local legislation the DRP cannot be extended to Interim 72.50 54.00 45.00 55.61 shareholders in the US, Canada and certain other countries.
Final 94.50 91.00 63.00 45.00 55.61 Total 167.00 145.00 108.00 45.00 111.22 Exchange rates Rio Tinto plc UK pence per share The following tables show, for the periods and dates indicated, certain Interim 46.43 33.14 28.21 29.64 information regarding the exchange rates for the pound sterling and Final 60.34 57.33 39.14 28.84 37.85 Australian dollar, based on the Noon Buying Rates for pounds sterling and Australian dollars expressed in US dollars per 1.00 and per A$1.00.
The ADR dividend for 2010 is re-stated from the 2010 Annual report and reflects the dividend after currency conversion.
2011 1.55 1.60 1.67 1.67 2010 1.56 1.55 1.64 1.43 2009 1.62 1.57 1.70 1.35 2008 1.44 1.86 2.03 1.44 Share price information The following table shows share prices for the period indicated, the reported high and low middle market quotations, which represent an average of bid and asked prices, for Rio Tinto plcs shares on the London Stock Exchange based on the Daily Official List, the highest and lowest sale prices of the RioTinto plc ADRs as reported on the NYSE composite tape and the high and low closing sale prices of Rio Tinto Limited shares based upon information provided by the ASX.
There is no established trading market in the US for Rio Tinto Limiteds shares.
With effect from 30 April 2010, one ADR represents one ordinary share of 10p in Rio Tinto plc.
Prior to this date one ADR represented four ordinary shares of 10p.
To effect this change ADR holders received three additional ADRs for every one ADR held as of 22 April 2010, the ADR record date.
Prior year comparatives have been restated for the impact of the ratio change.
b None of these prices have been restated to take account of the rights issues undertaken in 2009.
132 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Governance Shareholder information The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Companies Australian dollars Period Average to borrow money, to charge any property or business of the Companies or c Year ended 31 December end rate High Low all or any of their uncalled capital and to issue debentures or give any Jan 2013 1.04 1.05 1.06 1.04 other security for a debt, liability or obligation of the Companies or of any Dec 2012 1.04 1.05 1.06 1.04 other person.
The directors shall restrict the borrowings of Rio Tinto plc to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all moneys borrowed by Nov 2012 1.04 1.04 1.05 1.03 the Company and its subsidiaries shall not exceed an amount equal to Oct 2012 1.04 1.03 1.04 1.02 one and one half times the Companys share capital plus aggregate Sep 2012 1.04 1.04 1.06 1.02 reserves unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of the Company.
Aug 2012 1.03 1.05 1.06 1.03 Directors are not required to hold any shares of either Company by way 2012 1.04 1.04 1.08 0.97 ofqualification.
The Remuneration report on pages 100 to 101 provides 2011 1.02 1.03 1.10 0.94 information on shareholding policies relating to executive and non- 2010 1.02 0.92 1.02 0.81 executive directors.
Please refer to Corporate Governance page 73 for 2009 0.890 0.790 0.940 0.620 information on appointment of directors.
2008 0.698 0.852 0.983 0.607 Rights attaching to shares Under English law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of profits c The Noon Buying Rate on such dates differed slightly from the rates used in the preparation of Rio Tintos financial statements as of such date.
No representation is made that pound sterling available for distribution, as determined in accordance with generally and Australian dollar amounts have been, could have been or could be converted into dollars accepted accounting principles and by the relevant law.
Shareholders are at the Noon Buying Rate on such dates or at any other dates.
entitled to receive such dividends as may be declared by the directors.
The directors may also pay shareholders such interim dividends as Material contracts appear to them to be justified by the financial position of the Group.
Articles of Association and Constitution As explained on pages 127 to 128, under the terms of the DLC structure Any Rio Tinto plc dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the date the the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and of Rio Tinto Limited entered into dividend was declared, or became due for payment, will be forfeited and certain contractual arrangements which are designed to place the returned to the Company.
Any Rio Tinto Limited dividend unclaimed may shareholders of both Companies in substantially the same position as if be invested or otherwise used by the board for the benefit of the Company they held shares in a single entity which owned all of the assets of both until claimed or otherwise disposed of according to Australian law.
Please refer to the section on Guarantees on page 129 for Voting rights further information.
Generally and as far as is permitted by the UK Voting at any general meeting of shareholders on a resolution on which Companies Act and the Australian Corporations Act and ASX Listing Rules the holder of the Special Voting Share is entitled to vote shall be decided this principle is reflected in the Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and by a poll, and any other resolution shall be decided by a show of hands in the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited.
The summaries below include unless a poll has been duly demanded.
On a show of hands, every descriptions of material rights of the shareholders of both Rio Tinto plc shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised and Rio Tinto Limited.
representative and is entitled to vote has one vote regardless of the Objects number of shares held.
The holder of the Special Voting Share is not At the 2009 annual general meetings, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and entitled to vote on a show of hands.
On a poll, every shareholder who is Rio Tinto Limited approved amendments to the constitutional documents present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative and whereby the object clauses were removed to allow the Companies to have is entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share for which he or the widest possible scope of activities.
she is the holder and, in the case of Joint Decisions, the holder of the Special Voting Share has one vote for each vote cast by the shareholders Directors at the parallel meeting of the other Companys shareholders.
Under Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association a director may not vote in respect of any proposal in which he or any other person connected with A poll may be demanded by any of the following: him has any material interest other than by virtue of his interests in r the chairman of the meeting: shares or debentures or other securities of or otherwise in or through the Company, except where resolutions: r at least five shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution: r any shareholder or shareholders representing in the aggregate not less r indemnify him or a third party in respect of obligations incurred by the than one tenth Rio Tinto plc or one 20th Rio Tinto Limited of the director on behalf of, or for the benefit of, the Company, or in respect total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution: of obligations of the Company, for which the director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity, security or guarantee: r any shareholder or shareholders holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting on which there have been paid-up sums in the r relate to an offer of securities in which he may be interested as a aggregate equal to not less than one tenth of the total sum paid up holder of securities or as an underwriter: onall the shares conferring that right Rio Tinto plc : or r concern another body corporate in which the director is beneficially r the holder of the Special Voting Share.
interested in less than one per cent of the issued shares of any class ofshares of such a body corporate: A proxy form will be treated as giving the proxy the authority to demand r relate to an employee benefit in which the director will share equally apoll, or to join others in demanding one.
with other employees: and The necessary quorum for a Rio Tinto plc general meeting is three r relate to liability insurance that the Company is empowered to members present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised purchase for the benefit of directors of the Company in respect of representative and entitled to vote and for a Rio Tinto Limited general actions undertaken as directors or officers of the Company.
meeting is two members present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative.
Under Rio Tinto Limiteds Constitution, except where a director is constrained by Australian law, a director may be present at a meeting of the board while a matter in which the director has a material personal interest is being considered and may vote in respect of that matter.
com 133 Shareholder information continued Matters are transacted at general meetings by the proposing and passing The Facility Agreement contains no financial covenants.
of resolutions: At 31 December 2012, the facility was undrawn.
Further details of the Groups r ordinary resolutions, which require the affirmative vote of a majority credit facilities are set out in note 23 of the 2012 financial statements.
ofthe votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is During the last quarter of 2012, the Group entered into bi-lateral bank aquorum, for example the election of directors: and facility agreements amounting to US$2 billion in aggregate.
The facilities r special resolutions, which require the affirmative vote of not less than are denominated in US dollars and for a term of one year and extendable three fourths of the persons voting at a meeting at which there is a at the Groups option by a further 364 days.
At 31 December 2012 the quorum, for example amending the Articles of Association of RioTinto facility was undrawn.
Any borrowings under each facility are at prevailing plc or the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited.
LIBOR rates plus an agreed margin dependent on the amount of drawdown and the credit rating of the group.
The facility is not subject The DLC Merger Sharing Agreement further classifies resolutions as tofinancial covenants.
Joint Decisions and Class Rights Actions as explained under Voting rights on page 133.
Exchange controls and foreign investment Annual general meetings must be convened with 21 days written notice Rio Tinto plc for Rio Tinto plc and with 28 days notice for Rio Tinto Limited.
Other There are no UK foreign exchange controls or other restrictions on the meetings of Rio Tinto plc must be convened with 21 days written notice import or export of capital or on the payment of dividends to non-resident for the passing of a special resolution and with 14 days notice for any holders of Rio Tinto plc shares or that affect the conduct of Rio Tinto plcs other resolution, depending on the nature of the business to be transacted.
The Bank of England, however, administers financial sanctions All meetings of Rio Tinto Limited require 28 days notice.
In calculating against specified targets related to certain regimes.
There are no restrictions the period of notice the days of delivery or receipt of the notice and the under Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association or under UK law that limit the date of the meeting are not included.
Among other things, the notice right of non-resident owners to hold or vote Rio Tinto plc shares.
must specify the nature of the business to be transacted.
Rio Tinto Limited Variation of rights Under current Australian legislation, the Reserve Bank of Australia does If, at any time, the share capital is divided into different classes of shares, not restrict the import and export of funds and no permission is required the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the provisions for the movement of funds into or out of Australia, except that restrictions of the relevant legislation, with the consent in writing of holders of three apply to certain financial transactions relating to specified individuals and fourths in value of the shares of that class or upon the adoption of an entities associated with certain regimes.
extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has responsibility for the of the Articles of Association and Constitution relating to proceedings at administration of restrictions relating to terrorists and their sponsors, ageneral meeting apply, except that the quorum for RioTinto plc should andthe former Iraqi regime.
be two or more persons who hold or represent by proxy not less than one Rio Tinto Limited may be required to deduct withholding tax from foreign third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class.
remittances of dividends, to the extent that they are unfranked, and from payments of interest.
Rights in a winding-up Except as the shareholders have agreed or may otherwise agree, upon Acquisitions of interests in shares, voting power or certain other equity awinding-up, the balance of assets available for distribution: instruments in Australian companies by foreign interests are subject to review and approval by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Australia r after the payment of all creditors including certain preferential under the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 the Takeovers creditors, whether statutorily preferred creditors or normal Act.
The Takeovers Act applies to any acquisition of 15 per cent or more creditors: and of the outstanding shares of, or voting power in, an Australian company r subject to any special rights attaching to any class of shares or to any transaction that results in one non-resident, or a group of associated non-residents, controlling 15 per cent or more of the shares is to be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to theamounts paid-up on the shares held by them.
This distribution is ofor voting power in, an Australian company.
The Takeovers Act also generally to be made in cash.
A liquidator may, however, upon the applies to any transaction which results in a group of non-associated adoption of a special resolution of the shareholders, divide among the non-residents controlling 40 per cent or more of the shares of, or voting power in, an Australian company.
Persons who are proposing such shareholders the whole or any part of the assets in kind.
acquisitions or transactions are required to notify the Treasurer of their The DLC Merger Sharing Agreement further sets out the rights of ordinary intention.
The Treasurer has the power to order divestment in cases shareholders in a liquidation as explained on page 128. where such acquisitions or transactions have already occurred.
The Takeovers Act does not affect the rights of owners whose interests are Facility agreement held in compliance with the legislation.
Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio Tinto Finance Limited entered into a facility agreement on 12 November 2010 as borrowers with a syndicate of banks.
Limitations on voting and shareholding The facility is guaranteed by Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
The Except for the provisions of the Takeovers Act 1975 there are no facility comprises a US$6 billion multi-currency five-year revolving credit limitations imposed by law, Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association or facility including a US$ denominated same day access swingline facility.
RioTinto Limiteds Constitution, on the rights of non-residents or foreign The funds made available under the Facility Agreement may be used for persons to hold or vote the Groups ordinary shares or ADSs that would the general corporate purposes of the Group.
notapply generally to all shareholders.
Advances under the revolving facility bear an interest rate per annum equal to the margin which is dependent on the Groups long-term credit rating as determined by Moodys and Standard & Poors and the level of drawdown plus LIBOR or EURIBOR in relation to any euro loan plus any mandatory cost.
134 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Governance Shareholder information Since 1988, all dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited have been fully Taxation franked.
It is the Groups policy to pay fully franked dividends whenever UK resident individuals shareholdings in Rio Tinto plc possible.
The boards expect Rio Tinto Limited to be able to pay fully Taxation of dividends franked dividends for the foreseeable future.
Dividends carry a tax credit equal to one ninth of the dividend.
Individuals who are liable to income tax at the basic rate will have no further tax to Dividend reinvestment plan DRP pay.
Higher rate tax payers are liable to tax on UK dividends at 32.5 per Shareholders will generally be liable for tax on dividends reinvested in the cent, which after taking account of the tax credit produces an effective tax DRP on the same basis as if they had received the cash and arranged the liability of 25 per cent of the dividend received.
Additional rate tax payers investment.
The dividend should therefore be included in the annual tax are liable to tax on UK dividends at 42.5 per cent until 5 April 2013 and return as assessable income.
37.5 per cent thereafter, which after taking account of the tax credit The shares acquired should be added to the shareholding at the date of produces an effective tax liability of 36.1 per cent of any dividend received acquisition at the actual cost of the shares, which is the amount of the up to 5 April 2013 and 30.5 per cent thereafter.
dividend applied by the shareholder to acquire shares and any incidental Dividend reinvestment plan DRP costs associated with the acquisition will form part of the cost base or The taxation effect of participation in the DRP will depend on individual reduced cost base of the shares for capital gains tax purposes.
Shareholders will generally be liable to tax on dividends Capital gains tax reinvested in the DRP on the same basis as if they had received the cash The Australian capital gains tax legislation is complex.
If shareholders and arranged the investment.
The dividend should, therefore, be included have acquired shares after 19 September 1985 they may be subject to in the annual tax return.
capital gains tax on the disposal of those shares.
The shares acquired should be added to shareholdings at the date and at Generally, disposal of shares held on capital account would give rise to the net cost shown on the share purchase advice.
The actual cost of the acapital gain or loss.
A capital gain arises when the proceeds on disposal shares for Rio Tinto plc shareholders, including the stamp duty stamp are greater than the cost base of shares.
A capital loss arises when the duty reserve tax and brokers commission, will form the base cost for proceeds on sale are less than the cost base or reduced cost base.
Where capital gains tax purposes.
a capital gain arises on shares held for at least 12 months, individual, Capital gains tax trust and superannuation fund shareholders may be eligible for a capital Shareholders who have any queries on capital gains tax issues are gains tax discount.
advised to consult their financial adviser.
Shareholders are advised to seek the advice of an independent taxation Details of relevant events since 31 March 1982 and adjusted values for consultant on any possible capital gains tax exposure.
Rio Tinto plc securities as at that date are available on the Groups website.
US residents Australian resident individuals shareholdings in The following is a summary of the principal UK tax, Australian tax and US Rio Tinto Limited Federal income tax consequences of the ownership of Rio Tinto plc ADSs, Taxation of dividends Rio Tinto plc shares and Rio Tinto Limited shares, the Groups ADSs and The basis of the Australian dividend imputation system is that when shares by a US holder as defined below.
It is not intended to be a Australian resident shareholders receive dividends from Rio Tinto Limited comprehensive description of all the tax considerations that are relevant they may be entitled to a credit for the Australian tax paid by the Group to all classes of taxpayer.
Future changes in legislation may affect the inrespect of that income, depending on the tax status of the shareholder.
taxconsequences of the ownership of the Groups ADSs and shares.
The application of the system results in the Australian tax paid by the It is based in part on representations by the Groups depositary bank as Group being allocated to shareholders by way of franking credits depositary for the ADRs evidencing the ADSs and assumes that each attaching to the dividends they receive.
Such dividends are known as obligation in the deposit agreements will be performed in accordance franked dividends.
A dividend may be partly or fully franked.
The current with its terms.
Rio Tinto Limited dividend is fully franked and the franking credits You are a US holder if you are a beneficial owner of the Groups ADSs attached to the dividend are shown in the distribution statement provided andshares and you are: a citizen or resident of the US: a domestic to shareholders.
corporation: an estate whose income is subject to US federal income The extent to which a company can frank a dividend depends on the taxregardless of its source: or a trust if a US court can exercise primary credit balance in its franking account.
Credits to this account can arise in supervision over the trusts administration and one or more US persons a number of ways, including when a company pays company tax or receives are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
a franked dividend from another company.
The dividend is required to be This section applies to US holders only if shares or ADSs are held included in a resident individual shareholders assessable income.
In ascapital assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to addition, an amount equal to the franking credit attached to the franked shareholders who are members of a special class of holders subject to dividend is also included in the assessable income of the resident individual, special rules, including a dealer in securities, a trader in securities who who may then be entitled to a rebate of tax equal to the franking credit elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for securities amount included in their income.
Should the franking credits exceed the holdings, a tax exempt organisation, a life insurance company, a person tax due, the excess is refunded to the residentindividual.
liable for alternative minimum tax, a person that actually or constructively The effect of the dividend imputation system on non-resident owns ten per cent or more of Rio Tintos voting stock, a person that shareholders is that, to the extent that the dividend is franked, no holdsshares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or conversion Australian tax will be payable and there is an exemption from dividend transaction, or a person whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
This section is based on the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended the Code, its legislative history, existing and proposed A withholding tax is normally levied at the rate of 15 per cent when unfranked dividends are paid to non-resident shareholders residing regulations, published rulings and court decisions, and on the convention inacountry with which Australia has a taxation treaty.
Most Western between the US and UK, and the convention between the US and countries have a taxation treaty with Australia.
A rate of 30 per cent Australia which may affect the tax consequences of the ownership of the applies to countries where there is no taxation treaty.
These laws and conventions are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
com 135 Shareholder information continued For the purposes of the Conventions and of the Code, US holders of ADSs US federal income tax are treated as the owners of the underlying shares.
In general, taking into account the earlier assumptions that each obligation of the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement will be The summary describes the treatment applicable under the conventions performed according to its terms, for US federal income tax purposes, if in force at the date of this report.
you hold ADRs evidencing ADSs, you will be treated as the owner of the shares represented by those ADRs.
Exchanges of shares for ADRs, and UK taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto plc ADRs for shares, generally will not be subject to US federal income tax.
Taxation of dividends US holders are not liable to UK withholding tax on dividends paid by Taxation of dividends RioTinto plc.
Dividends carry a tax credit equal to one ninth of the net Under the US federal income tax laws, and subject to the Passive Foreign dividend, or ten per cent of the net dividend plus the tax credit.
The tax Investment Company, or PFIC, Rules discussed below, if you are a US credit is not repayable to US holders.
holder, the gross amount of any dividend the Group pays out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US Capital gains federal income tax purposes is subject to US federal income taxation.
A US holder will not normally be liable to UK tax on capital gains realised on the disposition of Rio Tinto plc ADSs or shares unless the holder If you are a non-corporate US holder, dividends paid to you in taxable carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a permanent years beginning after 31 December 2012 will be taxed at ordinary income establishment in the UK and the ADSs or shares have been used for the rates on dividends.
purposes of the trade, profession or vocation or are acquired, held or You must include any Australian tax withheld from the dividend payment used for the purposes of such a permanent establishment.
in this gross amount even though you do not in fact receive it.
The Inheritance tax dividend is taxable to you when you, in the case of shares, or the Under the UK Estate Tax Treaty, a US holder, who is domiciled in the US depositary, in the case of ADSs, receive the dividend, actually or and is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax constructively.
The dividend will not be eligible for the dividends-received upon the holders death or on a transfer during the holders lifetime deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends unless the ADSs and shares form part of the business property of a received from other US corporations.
The amount of the dividend permanent establishment in the UK or pertain to a fixed base situated in distribution that you must include in your income as a US holder will be the UK used in the performance of independent personal services.
In the the US dollar value of the non-US dollar payments made, determined at exceptional case where ADSs or shares are subject both to UK inheritance the spot UK pound US dollar rate in the case of Rio Tinto plc or the spot tax and to US Federal gift or estate tax, the UK Estate Tax Treaty generally Australian dollar US dollar rate in the case of Rio Tinto Limited on the provides for tax payments to be relieved in accordance with the priority date the dividend distribution is includible in your income, regardless of rules set out in the Treaty.
whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax period from the date you include the dividend payment in income to the Transfers of Rio Tinto plc ADSs will not be subject to UK stamp duty date you convert the payment into US dollars will be treated as ordinary provided that the transfer instrument is not executed in, and at all times income or loss and will not be eligible for the special tax rate applicable remains outside, the UK.
Electronic paperless purchases of Rio Tinto plc to qualified dividend income.
The gain or loss generally will be income or shares are subject to stamp duty reserve tax SDRT at a rate of 0.5 per loss from sources within the US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
cent rounded to the nearest penny.
Purchases of Rio Tinto plc shares Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits, using a stock transfer form are subject to Stamp Duty at a rate of 0.5 per as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a cent on transactions over 1,000 rounded up to the nearest 5. non-taxable return of capital to the extent of your basis in the shares or Conversions of Rio Tinto plc shares into Rio Tinto plc ADSs will be subject ADSs and thereafter as capital gain.
to additional Stamp Duty or SDRT at a rate of 1.5 per cent on all transfers to the depositary or its nominee.
Subject to certain limitations, any Australian tax withheld in accordance with the Australia United States Tax Treaty and paid over to Australia will Australian taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto Limited be creditable or deductible against your US federal income tax liability.
Taxation of dividends Special rules apply in determining the foreign tax credit limitation with US holders are not normally liable to Australian withholding tax on respect to dividends that are subject to the maximum 20 per cent tax rate dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited because such dividends are normally beginning after 31 December 2012. fully franked under the Australian dividend imputation system, meaning that they are paid out of income that has borne Australian income tax.
For foreign tax credit purposes, dividends will generally be income from Any unfranked dividends would suffer Australian withholding tax which sources outside the US and will, depending on your circumstances, under the Australian income tax convention is limited to 15 per cent of generally be either passive or general income which, in either case, is the gross dividend.
treated separately from other types of income for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit allowable to you.
Capital gains US holders are not normally subject to any Australian tax on the disposal Taxation of capital gains ofRio Tinto Limited ADSs or shares unless they have been used in Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, if you are a US holder and you carrying on a trade or business wholly or partly through a permanent sell or otherwise dispose of the Groups ADSs or shares, you will recognise establishment in Australia, or the gain is in the nature of income sourced capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to the inAustralia.
difference between the US dollar value of the amount that you realise and your tax basis, determined in US dollars, in your shares or ADSs.
Capital Gift, estate and inheritance tax gain of a non-corporate US holder is generally taxed at preferential rates Australia does not impose any gift, estate or inheritance taxes in relation where the holder has a holding period greater than one year.
The gain or to gifts of shares or upon the death of a shareholder.
loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the US for Stamp duty foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
An issue or transfer of Rio Tinto Limited shares does not require the payment of Australian stamp duty.
136 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Governance Shareholder information Passive Foreign Investment Company PFIC Rules We believe that the Groups shares or ADSs should not be treated as stock of PFIC for US federal income tax purposes, but this conclusion is afactual determination that is made annually and thus may be subject tochange.
If we were to be treated as a PFIC, unless the shares or ADSs are marketable stock and a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to the shares or ADSs, gain realised on the sale or other disposition of the shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as capital gain.
Instead, if you are a US holder, you would be treated as if you had realised such gain and certain excess distributions rateably over your holding period for the shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated, together with an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year.
In addition, dividends that you receive from us will not be eligible for the special tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income if we are a PFIC either in the taxable year of the distribution or the preceding taxable year, but instead will be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary income.
Documents on display Rio Tinto is subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission reporting requirements for foreign companies.
A Form 20-F, which corresponds with the Form 10-K for US public companies, was filed with the SEC on 16 March 2013.
Rio Tintos Form 20-F and other filings can be viewed on the Rio Tinto website as well as the SEC website at www.
ADR holders may also read without charge and copy at prescribed rates any document filed at the public reference facilities of the SECs principal office at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, US.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the public reference facilities.
com 137 2012 Financial statements Contents Primary financial statements Capital and reserves Group income statement 139 Note 28 Share capital Rio Tinto plc 183 Group statement of comprehensive income 140 Note 29 Share capital Rio Tinto Limited 183 Group cash flow statement 141 Note 30 Other reserves and retained earnings 184 Group statement of financial position 142 Group statement of changes in equity 143 Additional disclosures Note 31 Financial instruments and risk management 186 Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards 145 Note 32 Contingent liabilities and commitments Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis 195 of financial statements 145 Note 33 Average number of employees 196 Note 34 Principal subsidiaries and consolidated operations 197 Notes to the 2012 financial statements Note 35 Principal jointly controlled entities 198 Note 1 Principal accounting policies 146 Note 36 Principal associates 198 Note 37 Principal jointly controlled assets and other Group income statement proportionally consolidated units 199 Note 2 Operating segments 160 Note 38 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses 199 Note 3 Operating segments additional information 163 Note 39 Directors and key management remuneration 204 Note 4 Net operating costs 164 Note 40 Auditors remuneration 205 Note 5 Employment costs 165 Note 41 Related party transactions Note 6 Impairment charges 206 165 Note 42 Exchange rates in US$ 206 Note 7 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 166 Note 43 Bougainville Copper Limited BCL 206 Note 8 Finance income and finance costs 166 Note 44 Events after the statement of financial position date 206 Note 9 Taxation 167 Note 45 Share based payments 207 Note 10 Loss earnings per ordinary share 168 Note 46 Post retirement benefits 210 Note 11 Dividends 169 Note 47 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures 215 Group statement of financial position Note 12 Goodwill 170 Rio Tinto plc 216 Note 13 Intangible assets 173 Note 14 Property, plant and equipment 174 Rio Tinto Financial information by business unit 219 Note 15 Investments in equity accounted units 175 Note 16 Net debt of equity accounted units 175 Australian Corporations Act Summary of ASIC relief 223 Note 17 Inventories 175 Note 18 Trade and other receivables Directors Declaration 176 224 Note 19 Deferred taxation 176 Note 20 Assets and liabilities held for sale 177 Auditors Independence Declaration 225 Note 21 Other financial assets 178 Note 22 Cash and cash equivalents 178 Independent auditors report to the members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited 226 Note 23 Borrowings and other financial liabilities 179 Note 24 Capitalised finance leases 180 Financial Summary 2003-2012 228 Note 25 Consolidated net debt 181 Note 26 Trade and other payables 181 Summary financial data 230 Note 27 Provisions including post retirement benefits 182 138 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report 138 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report
