Financial statements 79 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Accounting policies The Company Rolls-Royce Holdings plc the Company is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in jointly controlled and associated entities.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 13 February 2013.
Basis of preparation and statement of compliance In accordance with European Union EU regulations, these financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, as adopted for use in the EU effective at 31 December 2012 Adopted IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company accounts under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices GAAP.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except where Adopted IFRS requires the revaluation of financial instruments to fair value and certain other assets and liabilities on an alternative basis most significantly post-retirement scheme liabilities are valued on the basis required by IAS 19 Employee Benefits and on a going concern basis as described on page 72.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Adopted IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting judgements and estimates, which are set out below.
The Groups significant accounting policies are set out on the following pages.
These accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements and by all Group entities.
Key areas of judgement The directors consider the potential key areas of judgements required to be made in applying the Groups accounting policies to be: A large proportion of the Groups activities relate to long-term aftermarket contracts.
The determination of appropriate accounting policies for recognising revenue and costs in respect of these contracts requires judgement, in particular i whether an aftermarket contract is linked, for accounting purposes, to the related sale of original equipment and ii the appropriate measure of stage of completion of the contract.
As set out in note 8, the Group has significant intangible assets.
The decision as to when to commence capitalisation of development costs and whether sales of original equipment give rise to recognisable recoverable engine costs is a key judgement.
As noted in the risk and revenue sharing partnerships accounting policy on page 81, the Group enters into arrangements with partners who make non-refundable payments, which the directors consider represent a reimbursement to the Group for its past expenditure, including that in establishing the market to which the partners gain access, on the basis that the Group has satisfied the relevant performance obligations and the payments are not linked to the future supply arrangements between the partners and the Group.
Under the arrangements, the partners share the programme costs and receive a share in future programme revenues or profits.
As set out in note 23, the Group has contingent liabilities in respect of financing support provided to customers.
Judgement is required to assess the likelihood of these crystallising, in order to assess whether a provision should be recognised.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty In applying the accounting policies, management has made appropriate estimates in many areas, and the actual outcome may differ from those calculated.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are set out below.
The estimation of the relevant assets and liabilities involves the combination of a number of assumptions.
Where appropriate and practicable, sensitivities are disclosed in the relevant notes.
Current economic environment The current economic environment could impact a number of estimates necessary to prepare the financial statements, in particular, the recoverable amount of assets and contingent liabilities.
The Group has taken these factors into account in assessing the estimates set outoverleaf.
R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012
