Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Explanatory notes to the resolutions Resolution 1: To Receive and Adopt the Report and Accounts The business of the Annual General Meeting AGM will begin with a resolution to receive the financial statements, together with the reports of the directors and auditors, in respect of the year ended 31 March 2012.
The Annual Report and Accounts 2012 is available on the Companys website and copies will be available at the AGM.
Resolution 2: To Approve the Remuneration Report Under section 439 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is required to give shareholders the opportunity to cast an advisory vote on the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2012.
The Remuneration Report is set out in full on pages 50 to 58 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
Alternatively, the Remuneration Report is obtainable on request from the Company Secretary at the registered office of the Company, or from the Companys website.
Resolution 3: To Declare a Final Dividend The Company paid an interim dividend of 4.2p per ordinary share on 27 January 2012.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 10.2p per ordinary share bringing the total dividend for the year to 14.4p per ordinary share.
If Resolution 3 is approved by shareholders the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012 will be paid on 7 September 2012 to shareholders whose names are on the register of members at the close of business on 10 August 2012.
Resolutions 4 to 9: Re-election and Election of Directors of the Company Resolutions 4 to 9 are concerned with the re-election and election of directors at this years AGM.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, any director who was a director at the two preceding AGMs and who was not appointed or re-appointed by the Company in general meeting at or since either such meeting, shall retire from office.
Retiring directors are eligible for re-election.
However, the Board has adopted a policy of annual re-election of all directors in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code in respect of the re-election of directors of FTSE 350 companies.
Consequently, all the directors will retire from office and, being eligible, submit themselves for re-election on an individual basis at the AGM.
The Companys Articles of Association permit any director appointed by the Board since the date of the last AGM to hold office only until the date of the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The director is then eligible for election by shareholders.
I Haaijer was appointed by the Board as a non-executive director on 30 May 2012 and being eligible, submits herself for election at the AGM and annually thereafter.
The biographical details for each director and other relevant information can be found on page 37 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
Details of the directors service contracts or terms of appointment are described in the Remuneration Report on pages 54 and 55 and the performance evaluation procedure is described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 42 and 43 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
Following individual formal performance evaluation by the Chairman, or in the case of the Chairman, by the Senior Independent Director, the Board confirms that the performance of each director submitting themselves for re-election continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role and recommends them for re-election.
The knowledge and experience and contribution made by each director to the Board is set out below: Since his appointment J R P Pike, Chairman, has made a significant contribution to the Group as a result of his experience in strategic and operational improvement and development in a range of UK and international businesses and through his effective leadership of the Board.
R J E Marsh, Chief Executive, has over 40 years experience in the packaging industry in the UK and Europe.
He was involved in the manufacture and sale of folding cartons with Metal Box and subsequently Reed International and Reedpack before being appointed Chief Executive of the RPC Group in 1989.
S Rojahn, independent non-executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, makes a valuable contribution to the Board through his engineering and management expertise and his experience in industry in Europe as well as in emerging markets including China, India and Latin America.
M G Towers, Senior Independent Director, is a chartered accountant with extensive financial and managerial experience as finance director of a variety of businesses and has made a considerable contribution to the Company in his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
P R M Vervaat, Finance Director and registered accountant, joined the Board in 2007 with experience in various financial roles in the Netherlands, UK, Germany and Belgium.
He has strong strategic and financial accounting skills and has been instrumental in the success of RPC 2010, the implementation of Group strategy and the refinancing of Group borrowings.
The process followed for I Haaijers selection can be found in the Nomination Committee section of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 41 and 42 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
The Nomination Committee, having undertaken appropriate due diligence on I Haaijers other interests and time commitments, has concluded that she is free from any relationship or circumstances that could affect the exercise of her independence of character and judgement.
Although only recently appointed, I Haaijer is undergoing an intensive induction programme and is expected to make a valuable contribution to he Board as a result of her management and relevant international business and market experience.
Accordingly, your Board recommends her election as a director of the Company.
RPC Group Plc 11 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Explanatory notes to the resolutions continued Resolution 10: To Reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as the Companys Auditors Auditors must be appointed at every AGM at which accounts are presented to the shareholders.
KPMG Audit Plc has advised its willingness to stand for reappointment as the auditors of the Company.
The Board recommends their reappointment following recommendation by the Audit Committee which has conducted a tender process during the year, in which KPMG Audit Plc were successful, and an evaluation of the auditors effectiveness, independence and objectivity.
Details of the tender process are given in the Audit Committee section of the Corporate Governance Report on page 43 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
Resolution 11: To Authorise the Directors to fix the Auditors Remuneration Shareholders will be asked to grant authority to the directors of the Company to determine the auditors remuneration.
Resolution 12: Authority to Allot Shares The directors of the Company may allot shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares only if authorised to do so by shareholders.
The authority granted at the last AGM is due to expire at this years AGM.
Accordingly, Resolution 12 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to grant new authorities to allot shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares.
If given, these authorities will expire at the AGM in 2013 or on 18 October 2013, whichever is the earlier.
Resolution 12 will allow the directors to allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 2,753,300, representing one third of the Companys existing issued share capital calculated as at 11 June 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document.
The directors have no immediate plans to make use of this authority with the exception of the issue of further ordinary shares to fulfil the Companys obligations under its various employee share option schemes.
Resolution 13: Notice of General Meetings other than Annual General Meetings The notice period required by the Companies Act 2006 for general meetings of the Company is at least 21 clear days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
AGMs must be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Previously, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an AGM on at least 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, Resolution 13 seeks the necessary shareholder approval which will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
In order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
Resolution 14: Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights The directors of the Company also require additional authority from the shareholders to allot shares or grant rights over shares or sell treasury shares where they propose to do so for cash and otherwise than to existing shareholders pro-rata to their holdings.
Resolution 14 seeks to renew the authority granted to the directors, at the AGM held on 27 July 2011, to allot securities of the Company up to a specified amount in connection with a rights issue without having to obtain prior approval from shareholders on each occasion, and also to allot a smaller number of these for cash or to sell treasury shares without first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders.
Resolution 14 will be proposed as a special resolution to grant such authority.
The number of shares which may be issued for cash under the latter authority will not exceed an aggregate nominal amount of 413,000, being approximately 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company as at 11 June 2012 the last practicable day prior to the publication of this notice.
In addition, the number of shares which may be issued for cash other than to existing shareholders, will not exceed 7.5% of the Companys total issued share capital in any rolling three year period without prior consultation with shareholders.
If given, the authority to disapply pre-emption rights will terminate not later than 18 October 2013.
Resolution 15: Purchase by the Company of its own Shares The directors consider that there may be circumstances in which it would be desirable for the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
Although the directors have no plans to make such purchases they would like to be able to act if circumstances arose in which they considered such purchases to be desirable.
Under Article 5 of the Companys Articles of Association, authority is granted to the Company to purchase its own shares subject to the provision of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolution 15 proposes that the Companys authority to purchase up to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company be renewed by special resolution.
The authority will terminate not later than 18 July 2013.
The authority is restricted to a maximum of 16,521,900 shares which is equivalent to approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 11 June 2012 with a minimum purchase price of 5p per share and a maximum price which will not be more than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The directors of the Company believe that it is advantageous for the Company to have this flexibility to make market purchases of its own shares.
In the event that shares are purchased, they would either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue would be reduced accordingly or retained as treasury shares.
The Companies Act 2006 enables companies to hold shares repurchased as treasury shares with a view to possible re-sale at a future date rather than having to cancel them.
The Company will consider holding repurchased shares pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 15 as treasury shares.
This would give the Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively and would provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
Any issues of treasury shares for the purposes of the Companys employee share schemes will be made within the 10% anti-dilution limit set by the Association of British Insurers.
The directors of the Company will only exercise this authority to purchase shares if they are satisfied that a purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share and be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Incentive schemes for directors with earnings per share targets would be adjusted for any reduction in issued share capital.
