Accounts Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 1.
Accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain assets and are in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
The following principal accounting policies have been applied: Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses, representing any excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, is capitalised.
Purchased goodwill is written off on a straight line basis over its useful economic life of up to 20 years.
Valuation of investments Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment in value.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost, less estimated residual values, of all tangible fixed assets, excluding freehold land, over their expected useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Alterations to leasehold premises Life of lease Motor vehicles 4 years Fixtures, fittings, IT and equipment 3 to 8 years Revaluation of properties The Company has taken advantage of the transitional arrangements in FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets and retained the book values of certain freehold properties that were revalued prior to implementation of that standard.
Where an asset that was previously revalued is disposed of, its book value is eliminated and an appropriate transfer made from the revaluation reserve to the profit and loss reserve.
Leased assets and assets held under hire purchase contracts Where assets are financed by hire purchase or leasing agreements that give rights approximating to ownership finance leases, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright.
The amount capitalised is the present value of the minimum lease payments payable during the lease term.
The corresponding leasing commitments are shown as amounts payable to the lessor.
Depreciation on the relevant assets is charged to the profit and loss account.
Lease payments are split between capital and interest using the actuarial method and the interest element is charged to the profit and loss account.
All other leases are treated as operating leases.
Their annual rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Foreign currency translation Foreign currency transactions are translated at the rates ruling when they occurred.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Pension costs Contributions to the Companys defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which they become payable.
Share based employee remuneration The Company has applied FRS 20 Share-based payment to all share options and conditional share awards which were granted to employees and had not vested at 1 January 2005.
A charge is recognised on the same basis as that recognised for the Group under IFRS 2.
Where the Company will be issuing shares to satisfy share awards made by its subsidiaries, the Company makes a change to its subsidiaries equal to the fair value of the share-based payment incurred.
