Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are sold and it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over, being charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP In accordance with UITF 32, the assets, income and expenditure of the ESOP Trust are incorporated into the Company Financial Statements.
Financial instruments Disclosures on financial instruments have not been included in the Companys financial statements as its consolidated financial statements include appropriate disclosures.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Trade debtors and other receivables are financial assets that are recognised at fair value on inception and are subsequently carried at amortised cost.
They are subject to impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses are taken to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Amounts held at amortised cost Trade creditors and other payables including bank loans are financial liabilities that are recognised at fair value on inception and are subsequently carried at amortised cost.
Profit attributable to shareholders No profit and loss account is disclosed by the Parent Company as allowed by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Year Year ended ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 000s 2012 2011 Profit for the year attributable to the shareholders of the Parent Company, dealt with in the accounts of the Parent Company 20,714 14,377 The remuneration of the auditors for the statutory audit of the Company was 45,000 2011: 33,000.
