The Directors interests under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan during the year are set out below: Value of grant at date Market Value Year of 1 Jan 2012 of grant 31 Dec 2012 of Shares Director award number 000s Released Lapsed number at Grant Alan Hearne 2009 275,261 395 275,261 143.5p Phil Williams 2009 156,098 224 156,098 143.5p Gary Young 2009 111,498 160 111,498 143.5p The awards made in 2009 having lapsed during the year, the Long Term Incentive Plan has now ceased to operate.
The market price of the shares at 31 December 2012 was 211.90p and the range during the financial year was 179.6p to 256.6p.
None of the Directors were materially interested in any significant contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries were party during the year.
Employees The Groups policies in relation to employees are disclosed on pages 10 and 11.
Charitable and community donations During the year the Group made charitable donations in cash of 237,000.
The Group made no contribution to political organisations during the year.
Supplier payment policy The Group has due regard to the payment terms of suppliers and settles all undisputed accounts in accordance with payment terms agreed with the supplier.
At the year end the Group had 22 days purchases outstanding in respect of payments to suppliers and subcontractors 2011: 38 days.
At the year end the Company had 29 days purchases outstanding in respect of payments to suppliers and sub-contractors 2011: 8 days.
Going concern The Groups business activities, a review of the 2012 results together with factors likely to affect its future development and prospects are set out on pages 3 to 7.
Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements sets out the borrowings of the Group and considers liquidity risk, whilst note 29 describes the Groups approach to capital management, and financial risk management in general.
The Group has had good cash flow for a number of years, had a modest amount of net bank debt at the year end and operates well within the financial covenants applying to the main bank facility.
The Groups banking facilities were renewed during the year and will not now expire until July 2016.
The Group has a diverse range of businesses in a spread of geographies and as a consequence the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors Report and Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Financial statements are published on the Groups website in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and accuracy of the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
Report and Accounts 2012 18 Management & Governance Each of the persons who is a Director at the time of this report confirms that: n so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and n the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are also required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors have chosen to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Group financial statements International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
A fair presentation also requires the Directors to: n properly select and apply appropriate accounting policies: n present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: n provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and n make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and its profit or loss for that period.
Parent company financial statements Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: n select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: n make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: n state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and n prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will cont inue in business.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company for that period.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Directors responsibilities statement pursuant to DTR 4 The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: n the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and n the Business Review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, and that the Risk Management report includes a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
