Financial instruments Details on the use of financial instruments and financial risk are included in note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Post balance sheet events On16 January 2013 the Company announced the acquisition of Petroleum Institute for Continuing Education PEICE, a Canadian based business providing geoscience and engineering training to the oil and gas industries, for a maximum consideration of C $11.7m.
Additional information The following additional information is provided for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the Takeover Directive into UK Law.
As at 31 December 2012 the Companys issued share capital consisted of 219,566,269 ordinary shares of 3p each.
At a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person is entitled to vote on a show of hands and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held.
There are no shares in issue that carry special rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than those that may be imposed by law or regulation from time to time.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
The Board can appoint a Director but anyone so appointed must be elected by an ordinary resolution at the next general meeting.
Under the Articles of Association any Director who has held office for more than three years since their last appointment must offer themselves for re-election at the next annual general meeting.
It Is the Companys policy, however, that all Directors should stand for annual re-election.
The Directors have power to manage the Companys business subject to the provision of the Companys Articles of Association, law and applicable regulations.
The Directors have power to issue and buy back shares in the Company pursuant to the terms and limitations of resolutions passed by shareholders at each annual general meeting of the Company.
No such power was exercised during the year under review.
Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are shown in the table on page 17.
Substantial shareholder interests of which the Company is aware are shown on page 16.
The Company is party to a number of commercial agreements which, in line with normal practice in the industry, may be affected by a change of control following a takeover bid.
None of these agreements are, however, considered to be of material significance.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office of employment resulting from a takeover bid.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 3 May 2013.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting circulated with this Report and Accounts contains a full explanation of the business to be conducted at that meeting.
This includes a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys Auditors.
By order of the Board Nicholas Rowe Secretary 28 February 2013 Registered Office: 20 Western Avenue Milton Park Abingdon Oxfordshire OX14 4SH Registered in England No.
