Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies RPS Group Plc the Company is a company domiciled in England.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issuance on 28 February 2013. a Basis of preparation The Group has prepared its annual financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed by the European Union and implemented in the UK.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
No new or revised standards or interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Restatement As reported in the Interim Results for the six months ended 30 June 2012, the consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2011 has been restated so that deferred consideration treated as remuneration is included within cash generated from operating activities rather than cash flows from investing activities.
Otherwise these financial statements have been prepared using accounting policies set out in the Report and Accounts 2011.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to both periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
b Basis of consolidation Where the company has the power, either directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of another entity or business so as to obtain benefits from its activities, it is classified as a subsidiary.
The consolidated financial statements present the results of the company and its subsidiaries as if they formed a single entity.
Intercompany transactions and balances between group companies are therefore eliminated in full.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of business combinations using the purchase method.
In the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The results of acquired operations are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the date on which control is obtained.
They are deconsolidated from the date control ceases.
c Revenue Revenue is stated net of sales tax.
Revenue is recognised only when the outcome of a transaction can be measured reliably and it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group.
i Fees expenses Revenue is classified into Fee revenue and Expense revenue.
Fee revenue represents the Groups personnel, subcontractor and equipment time and expertise sold to clients.
Expense revenue is the recharge of costs incidental to fulfilling the Groups contracts, for example mileage, flights, subsistence and accommodation.
ii Time and materials In the case of time and materials projects, revenue represents the fair value of services provided using time spent at agreed rates as the basis.
iii Fixed price In the case of fixed price contracts, revenue is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date measured by reference to the milestones achieved or cost incurred as a proportion of the total forecast cost.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding the recovery of the consideration due or associated costs.
An expected loss on a contract is recognised immediately in the income statement.
iv Tuition Tuition fees in respect of courses run by RPS are recognised over the period of instruction.
v Agency agreements The Group enters into certain agreements with clients where it manages client expenditure as an agent.
It is obliged to purchase third party services and recharges those costs, plus a management fee, to the client.
In these cases only the management fee is recognised as revenue.
Receivables, payables and cash related to these transactions are included in the consolidated balance sheet.
Significant accounting policies continued Accrued revenue is booked as a receivable in the consolidated balance sheet when the amount of revenue recognised on a contract exceeds the amount invoiced.
Where the amount invoiced exceeds the amount of revenue recognised, the difference is booked as a payable on the balance sheet in deferred income.
d Deferred consideration Deferred consideration arises when settlement of all or part of the cost of a business combination falls due after the date the acquisition was completed.
i IFRS 3 2004 At the date of acquisition, deferred consideration is stated at the fair value of the total consideration outstanding.
In these cases all deferred consideration has been treated as part of the cost of investment.
At each balance sheet date deferred consideration comprises the fair value of the remaining deferred consideration valued at acquisition.
ii IFRS 3 2008 Where the payment of deferred consideration is not contingent upon continuing employment of the vendors by the Group, deferred consideration is treated in the same way as under IFRS 3 2004.
Where the payment of deferred consideration is contingent upon the continuing employment of vendors by the Group, it is treated as a remuneration expense and accounted for as an employment benefit under IAS 19.
A charge is made through the consolidated income statement as a cost of employment.
The cost associated with each payment is accrued over the period it is earned.
At each balance sheet date the contingent deferred consideration balance comprises the accrual for unsettled remuneration which has been expensed to the balance sheet date.
e Intangible assets i Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill has been recognised on acquisitions of subsidiaries and the business, assets and liabilities of partnerships.
Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment.
ii Negative Goodwill Negative goodwill arises where the purchase price of acquisitions for accounting purposes is less than the fair value of the net assets acquired and is immediately credited to the consolidated income statement in accordance with IFRS 3 2008. iii Other intangible assets Intangible assets other than goodwill that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets identified in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition if they are separable from the acquired entity or give rise to other contractual or legal rights.
The fair values ascribed to such intangibles are arrived at by using appropriate valuation techniques.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in income as an expense as incurred.
iv Amortisation Amortisation is charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis from the date that the intangible assets are available for use over their estimated useful lives unless such lives are indefinite.
The estimated useful lives of the Groups intangible assets are as follows: Customer relationships 3 to 15 years Trade names 1 to 5 years Order backlog 1 to 4 years Non compete agreements 3 years Software 10 years Intellectual property rights 10 years Report and Accounts 2012 40 Accounts f Impairment of non financial assets The carrying amounts of the Groups non financial assets, other than deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill the recoverable amount is estimated at each annual balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement unless the asset is recorded at a revalued amount in which case it is treated as a revaluation decrease to the extent that a surplus has previously been recorded.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying value of goodwill allocated to the cash generating unit and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
i Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount is the greater of the net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
ii Reversals of impairment An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
g Non statutory performance measures The Board has disclosed four non statutory performance measures as part of the Consolidated Income Statement.
These are Operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs, Profit before tax, amortisation of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs, Adjusted basic earnings per share and Adjusted diluted earnings per share.
The Board considers these to be more meaningful measures of business performance than the statutory measures Operating profit, Profit before tax, Basic earnings per share and Diluted earnings per share.
The Board has shown in note 3 segment profit and underlying profit.
Segment profit is defined as profit before interest, tax, amortisation of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs.
Underlying profit is defined as segment profit before reorganisation costs.
In 2011 the Group reported segment profit after amortisation of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs.
In 2012 it has chosen not to as this measure is not reported to the Groups CODM.
i Amortisation of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs note 4 This classification of income and expense comprises amortisation of acquired intangibles see note 1 e iv, deferred consideration payments that are contingent on continuing employment and are treated as remuneration see note 1 d ii, negative goodwill that has been credited to the income statement see note 1 e ii, gain on revaluation to fair value of investment in associate upon acquisition of all outstanding share capital note 28 and third party transaction related costs.
ii Reorganisation costs This classification of income and expense comprises costs arising as a consequence of reorganisation including redundancy costs, profit or loss on disposal of plant, property and equipment, the costs of consolidating office space and rebranding costs.
An explanation of adjusted earning per share is given in note 10. h Key accounting estimates and judgements The Group considers that the accounting policies above all require judgement to be exercised.
Judgements that could have a material effect on the Groups financial statements include the following: 1.
Revenue recognition judgement is required to identify when it is appropriate to recognise revenue on contracts, particularly with respect to fixed price contracts.
Acquisition accounting judgements are made with respect to the fair value of the net assets acquired and with respect to the fair value of the consideration transferred.
Market rates of interest are used to discount expected cash flows to derive the fair value of the investment.
See note 28 for detail of the acquisition completed in 2012. rpsgroup.
