Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies RPS Group Plc the Company is a company domiciled in England.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issuance on 28 February 2013. a Basis of preparation The Group has prepared its annual financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed by the European Union and implemented in the UK.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
No new or revised standards or interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Restatement As reported in the Interim Results for the six months ended 30 June 2012, the consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2011 has been restated so that deferred consideration treated as remuneration is included within cash generated from operating activities rather than cash flows from investing activities.
Otherwise these financial statements have been prepared using accounting policies set out in the Report and Accounts 2011.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to both periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
b Basis of consolidation Where the company has the power, either directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of another entity or business so as to obtain benefits from its activities, it is classified as a subsidiary.
The consolidated financial statements present the results of the company and its subsidiaries as if they formed a single entity.
Intercompany transactions and balances between group companies are therefore eliminated in full.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of business combinations using the purchase method.
In the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The results of acquired operations are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the date on which control is obtained.
They are deconsolidated from the date control ceases.
c Revenue Revenue is stated net of sales tax.
Revenue is recognised only when the outcome of a transaction can be measured reliably and it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group.
i Fees expenses Revenue is classified into Fee revenue and Expense revenue.
Fee revenue represents the Groups personnel, subcontractor and equipment time and expertise sold to clients.
Expense revenue is the recharge of costs incidental to fulfilling the Groups contracts, for example mileage, flights, subsistence and accommodation.
ii Time and materials In the case of time and materials projects, revenue represents the fair value of services provided using time spent at agreed rates as the basis.
iii Fixed price In the case of fixed price contracts, revenue is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date measured by reference to the milestones achieved or cost incurred as a proportion of the total forecast cost.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding the recovery of the consideration due or associated costs.
An expected loss on a contract is recognised immediately in the income statement.
iv Tuition Tuition fees in respect of courses run by RPS are recognised over the period of instruction.
v Agency agreements The Group enters into certain agreements with clients where it manages client expenditure as an agent.
It is obliged to purchase third party services and recharges those costs, plus a management fee, to the client.
In these cases only the management fee is recognised as revenue.
Receivables, payables and cash related to these transactions are included in the consolidated balance sheet.
