Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Impairment of non-financial assets when impairment reviews are undertaken, judgements are made with respect to the discount rates applicable to the Groups cash generating units, along with the expected cash flows of those cash generating units and the growth rates applied to them.
Detail of the results of the impairment reviews performed in 2012 can be found in note 11 along with the judgements applied.
Impairment of financial assets management considers in detail when it is appropriate to recognise impairment reserves against specific financial assets.
This judgement will take into account our previous experience with the client in question, their particular circumstances and the markets that they work in.
Details of the impairment reserves held for financial assets can be found in note 14.
Other accounting policies a Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currency are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to pounds sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in income.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to pounds sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to pounds sterling at rates approximating the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in the translation reserve.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to the translation reserve.
They are recycled and taken to income upon disposal of the operation.
iv Foreign currency forward contracts Foreign currency forward contracts are initially recognised at nil value, being priced-at-the-money at origination.
Subsequently they are measured at fair value determined by price changes in the underlying forward rate, the interest rate, the time to expiration of the contract and the amount of foreign currency specified in the contract.
Changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
b Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy 1 f above.
ii Leased assets Leases which contain terms whereby the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased item are classified as finance leases.
Assets acquired under a finance lease are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value of the leased assets, or if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Obligations under finance leases are included in liabilities net of finance costs allocated to future periods.
All other leases are classified as operating leases and are not capitalised.
iii Subsequent costs The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is incurred if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
iv Depreciation Depreciation is charged to income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Report and Accounts 2012 42 Accounts Freehold buildings 50 years Alterations to leasehold premises Life of lease Motor vehicles 4 years Fixtures, fittings, IT and equipment 3 to 8 years c Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised at cost and carried at cost less impairment losses.
Trade and other receivables are subject to impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses are taken to the income statement as incurred.
d Cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank comprises cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement.
e Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
ii Share-based payments The Group operates share based payment arrangements with employees.
The fair value of equity settled awards for share based payments is determined at grant and expensed straight line over the period from grant to the date of earliest unconditional exercise.
The Group has calculated the fair market value of options using a binomial model and for whole share awards the fair value has been based on the market value of the shares at the date of grant adjusted to take into account some of the terms and conditions upon which the shares were granted.
Those fair values were charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting period adjusted to reflect actual and expected vesting levels.
Since 2004 the Group has incentivised and motivated employees through the grant of conditional share awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Bonus Banking Plan BBP for Executive Directors and other senior directors: the Performance Share Plan PSP, for senior managers and staff, and the Share Incentive Plan SIP, available to staff.
Under these arrangements shares are granted at no cost to the employee.
The release of shares granted under the LTIP, BBP and PSP are subject to the satisfaction of corporate performance conditions and continuity of employment provisions.
Shareholder approval has lapsed for the LTIP and therefore no further grants will be made under this plan.
The release of shares under the SIP are subject to continuity of employment provisions.
iii Accrued holiday pay Provision is made at each balance sheet date for holidays accrued but not taken, to the extent that they may be carried forward, calculated at the salary of the relevant employee at that date.
f Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
g Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at cost.
Trade payables with a short useful life are not discounted.
h Borrowings Bank overdrafts and interest bearing loans are initially measured at cost.
com 43 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Other accounting policies continued i Reserves The description and purpose of the Groups reserves are as follows: Share premium Premium on shares issued in excess of nominal value, other than on shares issued in respect of acquisitions when merger relief is taken.
Merger reserve Premium on shares issued in respect of acquisitions when merger relief is taken.
Employee trust Own shares held by the SIP and ESOP trusts.
Translation reserve Cumulative gains and losses arising on retranslating the net assets of overseas operations into sterling.
Retained earnings Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and consolidated statement of changes in equity.
j Expenses i Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense.
ii Finance lease payments Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
k Income tax Income tax on the income for the periods presented comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit and the differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
In accordance with IAS12, deferred tax is taken directly to equity to the extent that the intrinsic value of the outstanding share awards based on the closing share price is greater than the share based payment expense already charged to the income statement.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
l Dividends Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable.
In the case of interim dividends to equity shareholders, this is when they are paid.
In the case of final dividends, this is when approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
m Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP As the Company is deemed to have control of its ESOP trust, it is treated as a subsidiary and consolidated for the purpose of the Group accounts.
The ESOPs assets other than investments in the Companys shares, liabilities, income and expenses are included on a line-by-line basis in the Group financial statements.
The ESOPs investment in the Companys shares is deducted from shareholders funds in the Group balance sheet as if they were treasury shares.
