Accounts n Accounting standards issued but not adopted At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and relevant interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and some of which were pending endorsement by the EU : n Amendments to IAS 19 Employee benefits n IAS 1 amended Presentation of Items in Other Comprehensive Income n IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and measurement effective for accounting periods beginning on or after n IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a 1 January 2015.
Surface Mine n IAS 12 Income Taxes Limited Scope Amendment n IFRS 1 amended First-time Adoption of IFRS Severe Hyperinflation, Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters n IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and Government Loans n IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements n Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2009-2011 Cycle n IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities n IAS 32 amended Offsetting Financial Assets and n IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Financial Liabilities n IAS 27 amended Separate Financial Statements n IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities n IAS 28 amended Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures n IFRS 10 amended, IFRS 12 amended and IAS 27 amended Investment Entities The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
3. Business and geographical segments Segment information is presented in the financial statements in respect of the Groups business segments, as reported to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The business segment reporting format reflects the Groups management and internal reporting structure.
Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arms length basis.
Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Business segments The business segments of the Group are as follows: Built and Natural Environment BNE - consultancy services to many aspects of the property and infrastructure development and management sectors.
These include: environmental assessment, the management of water resources, health and safety, risk management, town and country planning, building, landscape and urban design, surveying and transport planning.
Consulting services are provided on a regional basis in Europe and Australia Asia Pacific AAP.
Energy - the provision of integrated technical, commercial and project management support and training in the fields of geoscience, engineering and health, safety and environment on a global basis to the energy sector.
Central costs - certain central costs are not allocated to the segments because either they predominently relate to the running of the Group Head Office function or could only be allocated to the segments on an arbitrary basis, such costs include the remuneration and support costs of the main board and the costs of the Group Finance and marketing functions.
These costs are included in the category unallocated expenses.
Segment profit and Underlying profit are defined in note 1 g rpsgroup.
