84 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the consolidated financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the consolidated financial In addition, the Companies Act 2006 requires directors to provide statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
thegroups auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated financial appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
statements for each financial year.
The directors have prepared the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Each of the directors, having made appropriate enquiries, Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European confirmsthat: Union.
The consolidated financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and of the so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information profit or loss of the group for that year.
of which the groups auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the groups auditors are select suitable accounting policies and then apply them aware of that information.
consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The directors have reviewed the groups budget and cash flow state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted forecasts.
On the basis of this review, and in the light of the current bythe European Union: and financial position and existing borrowing facilities, the directors are prepare the consolidated financial statements on the going concern satisfied that SABMiller plc is a going concern and have continued to basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
A copy of the financial statements of the group is placed on the companys website.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance The directors confirm that they have complied with the above and integrity of statutory and audited information on the companys requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
financial position of the group and to enable them to ensure that theconsolidated financial statements comply with the Companies Act2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence fortaking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and otherirregularities.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Governance section of the Annual Report, confirms that, to the best oftheir knowledge: the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fairview of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and the directors report contained in the Governance section of the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, togetherwith a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that itfaces.
