Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 165 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the company financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the In addition, the Companies Act 2006 requires directors to provide directors remuneration report and the company financial statements thecompanys auditors with every opportunity to take whatever in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
stepsandundertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to beappropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements report.
Each of the directors, having made appropriate enquiries, foreach financial year.
The directors have prepared the company confirms that: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit Accounting Practice.
The financial statements are required by law informationof which the companys auditors are unaware: and togive a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company for each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken that year.
as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: areaware of that information.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them A copy of the financial statements of the company is placed on the consistently: companys website.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and integrity of statutory and audited information on the companys state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United explained in the financial statements: and Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions orqualifications as necessary.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection offraud and other irregularities.
