Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Management considers the following to be areas of significant 1.
Accounting policies judgement and estimation for the group due to greater complexity and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgement: The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of thegroups financial statements are set out below.
These policies i Impairment reviews have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the relevant otherwisestated.
Impairment reviews in respect of the relevant CGUs are performed at least annually or more regularly if a Basis of preparation events indicate that this is necessary.
Impairment reviews are based The consolidated financial statements of SABMiller plc have been on future cash flows discounted using the weighted average cost prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting ofcapital for the relevant country with terminal values calculated Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted applying the long-term growth rate.
The future cash flows which are bythe EU, and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies based on business forecasts, the long-term growth rates and the reporting under IFRS.
discount rates used are dependent on management estimates and judgements.
Future events could cause the assumptions used in The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost these impairment reviews to change with a consequent adverse convention, except for the revaluation to fair value of certain financial impact on the results and net position of the group.
Details of the assets and liabilities, and post-retirement assets and liabilities as estimates used in the impairment reviews for the year are set out described in the accounting policies below.
The accounts have innote 10. beenprepared on a going concern basis.
ii Taxation The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS The group operates in many countries and is subject to taxes requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
Significant judgement is required in requires management to exercise its judgement in the process determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment is often by ofapplying the groups accounting policies.
Actual results could itsnature complex, and cannot be finally determined until a formal differfrom those estimates.
resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority which may take several years to conclude.
Amounts provided are accrued based b Recent accounting developments on managements interpretation of country specific tax laws and the i New standards, amendments and interpretations of likelihood of settlement.
Actual liabilities could differ from the amount existing standards adopted by the group provided which could have a consequent adverse impact on the There were no standards, interpretations and amendments adopted results and net position of the group.
by the group since 1 April 2011 which had a significant impact on the groups consolidated results or financial position.
iii Pension and post-retirement benefits Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in order ii New standards, amendments and interpretations of to value the groups pension and post-retirement obligations in the existing standards that are not yet effective and have not balance sheet and to determine the amounts to be recognised in the beenearly adopted by the group income statement and in other comprehensive income in accordance The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing with IAS 19.
The calculations of these obligations and charges are standards have been published and are mandatory for the groups based on assumptions determined by management which include accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2012 or later periods, discount rates, salary and pension inflation, healthcare cost inflation, but which have not been early adopted by the group and in relation mortality rates and expected long-term rates of return on assets.
towhich the group is yet to assess the full impact: Details of the assumptions used are set out in note 32.
The selection of different assumptions could affect the net position of the group Amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benefits is effective from 1 andfuture results.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, is effective from 1 January 2015. iv Property, plant and equipment IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements, is effective from 1 The determination of the useful economic life and residual values of 1January 2013. property, plant and equipment is subject to management estimation.
IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, is effective from 1 January 2013.
The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual IFRS 12, Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities is effective from 1 values to take account of any changes in circumstances, and any 1 January 2013. changes that could affect prospective depreciation charges and IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement, is effective from 1 assetcarrying values.
Not yet endorsed by the EU.
v Business combinations On the acquisition of a company or business, a determination of the There are no other standards, interpretations and amendments to fair value and the useful life of intangible assets acquired is performed, existing standards that are not yet effective that would be expected which requires the application of management judgement.
Future tohave a material impact on the consolidated results of operations events could cause the assumptions used by the group to change orfinancial position of the group.
which would have a significant impact on the results and net position of the group.
c Significant judgements and estimates In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is vi Exceptional items oftenrequired where the choice of specific policy, assumption or Exceptional items are expense or income items recorded in a period accounting estimate to be followed could materially affect the reported which have been determined by management as being material by results or net position of the group, should it later be determined that their size or incidence and are presented separately within the results a different choice be more appropriate.
The determination of which items are disclosed as exceptional items will affect the presentation of profit measures including EBITA and adjusted earnings per share, and requires a degree of judgement.
Details relating to exceptional items reported during the year are set out in note 4.
92 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued iii Joint ventures 1.
Accounting policies continued Joint ventures are contractual arrangements which the group has entered into with one or more parties to undertake an economic d Segmental reporting activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually Operating segments reflect the management structure of the group agreed sharing of control over an economic activity, and exists only and the way performance is evaluated and resources allocated when the strategic, financial and operating decisions relating to basedon group revenue and EBITA by the groups chief operating theactivity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing decision maker, defined as the executive directors.
focused geographically, and while not meeting the definition of reportable segments, the group reports separately as segments The groups share of the recognised income and expenses of South Africa: Hotels and Gaming and Corporate as this provides associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity usefuladditional information.
method from the date significant influence or joint control commences to the date it ceases based on present ownership interests.
e Basis of consolidation SABMiller plc the company is a public limited company incorporated The group recognises its share of associates and joint ventures in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The post-tax results as a one line entry before profit before taxation in consolidated financial statements include the financial information theincome statement and its share of associates and joint ventures ofthe subsidiary, associate and joint venture entities owned by equity movements as a one line entry under other comprehensive thecompany.
income in the statement of comprehensive income.
i Subsidiaries When the groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the company, where control is reduced to nil because the groups share of losses exceeds its the power directly or indirectly to govern the financial and operating interestin the associate or joint venture, the group only provides policies of the entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities, foradditional losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or regardless of whether this power is actually exercised.
Where the  to fund such losses, or make payments companys interest in subsidiaries is less than 100%, the share onbehalf oftheassociate or joint venture.
Where the investment attributable to outside shareholders is reflected in non-controlling inanassociateor joint venture is disposed, the investment ceases interests.
Subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from tobeequity accounted.
the date control commences until the date control ceases.
iv Transactions with non-controlling interests Control is presumed to exist when the group owns, directly or Transactions with non-controlling interests are treated as transactions indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power with equity owners of the group.
For purchases from non-controlling ofan entity unless, in exceptional circumstances, it can be clearly interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the demonstrated that such ownership does not constitute control.
relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the Control also exists where the group has the ability to direct or subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to dominate decision-making in an entity, regardless of whether this non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity where there power is actually exercised.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business, the results v Reduction in interests of the business are included in the groups results up to the effective When the group ceases to have control, joint control or significant date of disposal.
The profit or loss on disposal or termination is influence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair calculated after charging the amount of any related goodwill to the value, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit extent that it has not previously been taken to the income statement.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes ofsubsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, certain amounts previously and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are are accounted for as if the group had directly disposed of the related eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment assets or liabilities.
This may mean that certain amounts previously of the asset transferred.
recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit orloss.
Some of the companys subsidiaries have a local statutory accounting reference date of 31 December.
These are consolidated using If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant management prepared information on a basis coterminous with the influence is retained, or if the ownership interest in a joint venture is companys accounting reference date.
reduced but joint control is retained, only the proportionate share of the carrying amount of the investment and of the amounts previously ii Associates recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit Associates are entities in which the group has a long-term interest and orloss where appropriate.
over which the group has directly or indirectly significant influence, where significant influence is the ability to influence the financial and operating policies of the entity.
The associate, Distell Group Ltd, has a statutory accounting referencedate of 30 June.
In respect of each year ending 31 March, this company is included based on financial statements drawn up totheprevious 31 December, but taking into account any changes inthesubsequent period from 1 January to 31 March that would materially affect the results.
All other associates are included on acoterminous basis.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 93 g Business combinations 1.
Accounting policies continued i Subsidiaries The acquisition method is used to account for business combinations.
f Foreign exchange The identifiable net assets including intangibles are incorporated into i Foreign exchange translation the financial statements on the basis of their fair value from the Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups effective date of control, and the results of subsidiary undertakings entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic acquired during the financial year are included in the groups results environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Theconsolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars which is the groups presentational currency.
The exchange rates to On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values reflecting the US dollar used in preparing the consolidated financial statements conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable were as follows: assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Fair values of these assets and liabilities are determined Year ended Year ended 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 byreference to market values, where available, or by reference to thecurrent price at which similar assets could be acquired or similar Average rate obligations entered into, or by discounting expected future cash flows Australian dollar AUD 0.95 1.06 to present value, using either market rates or the risk-free rates and South African rand ZAR 7.48 7.15 risk-adjusted expected future cash flows.
Colombian peso COP 1,831 1,881 Euro 0.72 0.76 The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the Czech koruna CZK 17.65 19.04 assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 2.73 2.81 assumed at the date of the acquisition, and also includes the groups Polish zloty PLN 2.99 3.01 estimate of the fair value of any deferred consideration payable.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Where the Closing rate business combination is achieved in stages and results in a change Australian dollar AUD 0.97 0.97 incontrol, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously South African rand ZAR 7.67 6.77 held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at Colombian peso COP 1,792 1,879 theacquisition date through profit or loss.
Where the business Euro 0.75 0.71 combination agreement provides for an adjustment to the cost that Czech koruna CZK 18.52 17.27 iscontingent on future events, the consideration transferred includes Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 2.67 2.80 Polish zloty PLN 3.13 2.84 the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
On an acquisition by acquisition basis, thegroup recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree The average exchange rates have been calculated based on the either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate average of the exchange rates during the relevant year which have share of the acquirees net assets.
been weighted according to the phasing of revenue of the groups businesses.
ii Associates and joint ventures On acquisition the investment in associates and joint ventures ii Transactions and balances isrecorded initially at cost.
Subsequently the carrying amount The financial statements for each group company have been prepared isincreased or decreased to recognise the groups share of the on the basis that transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in associates and joint ventures income and expenses after the their functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of dateofacquisition.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date Fair values reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition are with the resultant translation differences being included in operating attributed to the groups share of identifiable assets including profit in the income statement other than those arising on financial intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
The assets and liabilities which are recorded within net finance costs consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the assets andthose which are deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed and qualifying net investment hedges.
Translation differences on atthe date of the acquisition, and also includes the groups estimate non-monetary assets such as equity investments classified as of the fair value of any deferred consideration payable.
available forsale assets are included in other comprehensive income.
The date significant influence or joint control commences is not iii Overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures necessarily the same as the closing date or any other date named One-off items in the income and cash flow statements of overseas inthe contract.
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures expressed in currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at the rates of iii Goodwill exchange prevailing on the day of the transaction.
All other items are Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the translated at weighted average rates of exchange for the relevant consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest reporting period.
Assets and liabilities of these undertakings are inthe acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous translated at closing rates of exchange at each balance sheet date.
equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable Alltranslation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the opening net assets together with differences between income acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Where the fair value of the statements translated at average and closing rates are recognised groups share of identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the fair value asa separate component of equity.
For these purposes net assets of the consideration, the difference is recognised immediately in the include loans between group companies that form part of the net income statement.
investment, for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, any Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment losses and is reviewed related exchange differences in equity are reclassified to the income forimpairment on an annual basis.
Any impairment identified is statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
recognised immediately in the income statement and is not reversed.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
94 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis 1.
Accounting policies continued ofthe costs incurred to acquire and bring them to use.
Direct costs associated with the production of identifiable and unique internally The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates and joint generated software products controlled by the group that will ventures is included in the carrying value of the investment in the probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one associate or joint venture.
Direct costs include software development employment costs including those of contractors used, capitalised h Intangible assets interest and an appropriate portion of overheads.
Capitalised Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation computer software, licence and development costs are amortised ona straight-line basis if applicable and impairment losses.
Cost is over their useful economic lives of between three and eight years.
usually determined as the amount paid by the group, unless the asset has been acquired as part of a business combination.
Intangible Internally generated costs associated with maintaining computer assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised software programmes are expensed as incurred.
attheir fair value at the date of acquisition.
Amortisation is included within net operating expenses in the income statement.
Internally v Research and development generated intangibles are not recognised except for software and Research and general development expenditure is written off in the applied development costs referred to under software and research period in which it is incurred.
Certain applied development costs are only capitalised as internally Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their estimated generated intangible assets where there is a clearly defined project, useful economic lives, and only tested for impairment where there is separately identifiable expenditure, an outcome assessed with atriggering event.
The group regularly reviews all of its amortisation reasonable certainty in terms of feasibility and commerciality, rates and residual values to take account of any changes in expected revenues exceed expected costs and the group has the circumstances.
The directors assessment of the useful life of resources to complete the task.
Such assets are amortised on a intangible assets is based on the nature of the asset acquired, straight-line basis over their useful lives once the project is complete.
thedurability of the products to which the asset attaches and theexpected future impact of competition on the business.
i Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost net of accumulated i Brands depreciation and any impairment losses.
Brands are recognised as an intangible asset where the brand has along-term value.
Acquired brands are only recognised where title Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition isclear or the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying business and the earnings attributable to it are separately identifiable.
value or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate, only when it isprobable that future economic benefits associated with the specific Acquired brands are amortised.
In respect of brands currently held asset will flow to the group and the cost can be measured reliably.
the amortisation period is 10 to 40 years, being the period for which Repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement the group has exclusive rights to those brands.
during the financial period in which they are incurred.
ii Contract brewing and other licences recognised as i Assets in the course of construction partofa business combination Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any Contractual arrangements for contract brewing and competitor impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and for qualifying licensing arrangements are recognised as an intangible asset at assets certain borrowing costs as determined below.
When these afairvalue representing the remaining contractual period with an assets are ready for their intended use, they are transferred into the assumption about the expectation that such a contract will be appropriate category.
At this point, depreciation commences on the renewed, together with a valuation of this extension.
same basis as on other property, plant and equipment.
Acquired licences or contracts are amortised.
In respect of licences or ii Assets held under finance leases contracts currently held, the amortisation period is the period for which Assets held under finance leases which result in the group bearing the group has exclusive rights to these assets or income streams.
substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease assets iii Customer lists and distributor relationships recognised are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of their fair aspart of a business combination value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at The fair value of businesses acquired may include customer lists and inception of the lease, then depreciated over the lower of the lease distributor relationships.
These are recognised as intangible assets term or their useful lives.
The capital element of future obligations and are calculated by discounting the future revenue stream under the leases is included as a liability in the balance sheet attributable to these lists or relationships.
classified, as appropriate, as a current or non-current liability.
The interest element of the lease obligations is charged to the income Acquired customer lists or distributor relationships are amortised.
statement over the period of the lease term to reflect a constant Inrespect of contracts currently held, the amortisation period is rateof interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each theperiod for which the group has the benefit of these assets.
iv Software iii Returnable containers Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item Returnable containers in circulation are recorded within property, ofproperty, plant and equipment, the software is capitalised as plant and equipment at cost net of accumulated depreciation less anintangible asset.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 95 k Inventories 1.
Accounting policies continued Inventories are stated at the lower of cost incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, and net realisable value, Depreciation of returnable bottles and containers is recorded as follows: towritethe containers off over the course of their economic life.
Thisistypically undertaken in a two stage process: Raw materials, consumables and goods for resale: Purchase cost net of discounts and rebates on a first-in first-out basis FIFO.
The excess over deposit value is written down over a period of Finished goods and work in progress: Raw material cost plus direct 1to10 years.
costs and a proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses on a Provisions are made against the deposit values for breakages and FIFO basis.
losses in trade together with a design obsolescence provision held to write off the deposit value over the expected container design Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further period which is a period of no more than 14 years from the costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Costs of inception of a container design.
This period is shortened where inventories include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on appropriate by reference to market dynamics and the ability of matured qualifying cash flow hedges of purchases of raw materials.
theentity to use containers for different brands.
l Financial assets and financial liabilities iv Depreciation Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets in the course value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, except in the ofconstruction.
In respect of all other property, plant and equipment, case of those classified at fair value through profit or loss.
For those depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to financial instruments that are not subsequently held at fair value, the write off the cost, less the estimated residual value, of each asset over group assesses whether there is any objective evidence of impairment its expected useful life as follows: at each balance sheet date.
Freehold buildings 20 50 years Financial assets are recognised when the group has rights or other Leasehold buildings Shorter of the lease term access to economic benefits.
Such assets consist of cash, equity or50years instruments, a contractual right to receive cash or another financial Plant, vehicles and systems 2 30 years asset, or a contractual right to exchange financial instruments with Returnable containers another entity on potentially favourable terms.
Financial assets are non-returnable containers derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the asset arerecorded as inventory 1 14 years have expired or have been transferred and the group has transferred Assets held under finance leases Lower of the lease term or substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
lifeofthe asset Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation to The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual transfer benefits and that obligation is a contractual liability to deliver values to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When cash or another financial asset or to exchange financial instruments setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the group takes with another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
Financial intoaccount are the expected rate of technological developments, liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity discharged, cancelled or expired.
atwhich the assets are expected to be used.
If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised amounts of The profit or loss on the disposal of an asset is the difference between financial assets and liabilities, which are in determinable monetary the disposal proceeds and the net book amount.
amounts, and there is the intention to settle net, the relevant financial assets and liabilities are offset.
v Capitalisation of borrowing costs Financing costs incurred, before tax, on major capital projects Interest costs are charged to the income statement in the year in duringthe period of development or construction that necessarily which they accrue.
Premiums or discounts arising from the difference takea substantial period of time to be developed for their intended between the net proceeds of financial instruments purchased or use, are capitalised up to the time of completion of the project.
issued and the amounts receivable or repayable at maturity are included in the effective interest calculation and taken to net finance j Advance payments made to customers principally costs over the life of the instrument.
hotels, restaurants, bars and clubs Advance payments made to customers are conditional on the There are four categories of financial assets and financial liabilities.
achievement of contracted sales targets or marketing commitments.
These are described as follows: The group records such payments as prepayments initially at fair value and amortises them in the income statement over the relevant period i Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value to which the customer commitment is made typically three to five throughprofit or loss years.
These prepayments are recorded net of any impairment losses.
Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include derivative assets and derivative liabilities not designated Where there is a volume target the amortisation of the advance is as effective hedging instruments.
included in sales discounts as a reduction to revenue and where there are specific marketing activities commitments the amortisation is All gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial included as an operating expense.
The amounts capitalised are assets or financial liabilities within this category are recognised in the reassessed annually for achievement of targets and are impaired income statement.
where there is objective evidence that the targets will not be achieved.
Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities Assets held at customer premises are included within property, plant Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are financial and equipment and are depreciated in line with group policies on instruments whose value changes in response to an underlying similar assets.
variable, require little or no initial investment and are settled in thefuture.
96 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued iii Available for sale investments 1.
Accounting policies continued Available for sale investments are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified as financial These include derivatives embedded in host contracts.
Such assets at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and receivables.
embedded derivatives need not be accounted for separately if Investments in this category are included in non-current assets unless thehost contract is already fair valued: if it is not considered as a management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months derivative if it was freestanding: or if it can be demonstrated that it ofthe balance sheet date.
They are initially recognised at fair value isclosely related to the host contract.
There are certain currency plus transaction costs and are subsequently remeasured at fair value exemptions which the group has applied to these rules which limit and tested for impairment.
Gains and losses arising from changes theneed to account for certain potential embedded foreign exchange infair value including any related foreign exchange movements derivatives.
These are: if a contract is denominated in the functional arerecognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal or currency of either party: where that currency is commonly used in impairment of available for sale investments, any gains or losses in international trade of the good traded: or if it is commonly used for other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement.
local transactions in an economic environment.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the date on Derivative financial assets and liabilities are analysed between current which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments and non-current assets and liabilities on the face of the balance sheet, are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the depending on when they are expected to mature.
investments have expired or have been transferred and the group hastransferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
For derivatives that have not been designated to a hedging relationship, all fair value movements are recognised immediately in iv Financial liabilities held at amortised cost the income statement.
See note x for the groups accounting policy Financial liabilities held at amortised cost include trade payables, on hedge accounting.
accruals, amounts owed to associates trade, amounts owed to jointventures trade, other payables and borrowings.
ii Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or a.
Trade payables determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
They Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently arise when the group provides money, goods or services directly to measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade adebtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included payables are analysed between current and non-current liabilities on in current assets, except for maturities of greater than 12 months after the face of the balance sheet, depending on when the obligation to the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value including originating fees and transaction costs, and subsequently measured b.
Borrowings atamortised cost using the effective interest method less provision Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction forimpairment.
Loans and receivables include trade receivables, costs and are subsequently stated at amortised cost and include amounts owed by associates trade, amounts owed by joint accrued interest and prepaid interest.
Borrowings are classified as ventures trade, accrued income and cash and cash equivalents.
current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet a.
Borrowings classified as hedged items are subject to hedge Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and accounting requirements see note x.
Bank overdrafts are shown subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for within borrowings in current liabilities and are included within cash and impairment.
cash equivalents on the face of the cash flow statement as they form an integral part of the groups cash management.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all m Impairment amounts due according to the terms of the receivables.
The amount This policy covers all assets except inventories see note k, financial of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying value assets see note l, non-current assets classified as held for sale and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted seenote n, and deferred tax assets see note u. atthe original effective interest rate.
This provision is recognised in theincome statement.
Impairment reviews are performed by comparing the carrying value ofthe non-current asset to its recoverable amount, being the higher b.
Cash and cash equivalents ofthe fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The fair value less In the consolidated balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents costs to sell is considered to be the amount that could be obtained on includes cash in hand, bank deposits repayable on demand and other disposal of the asset.
Value in use is determined by discounting the short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three future post-tax cash flows generated from continuing use of the cash months or less.
In the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and generating unit CGU using a post-tax discount rate, as this closely cash equivalents also includes bank overdrafts which are shown approximates to applying pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax cash flows.
within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Where a potential impairment is identified using post-tax cash flows and post-tax discount rates, the impairment review is reperformed ona pre-tax basis in order to determine the impairment loss to berecorded.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from the cash flows of other assets, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, CGUs are considered to be groups of assets that have separately identifiable cash flows.
They also include those assets and liabilities directly involved in producing the income and a suitable proportion of those used to produce more than one income stream.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 97 r Revenue recognition 1.
Accounting policies continued i Sale of goods and services Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or An impairment loss is held firstly against any specifically impaired receivable for goods and services provided to third parties and assets.
Where an impairment is recognised against a CGU, the isrecognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are impairment is first taken against goodwill balances and if there is a substantially transferred.
remaining loss it is set against the remaining intangible and tangible assets on a pro-rata basis.
The group presents revenue gross of excise duties because unlike value added tax, excise is not directly related to the value of sales.
It is Should circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal of not generally recognised as a separate item on invoices, increases in a previous impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in the income excise are not always directly passed on to customers, and the group statement in the period in which it occurs and the carrying value of cannot reclaim the excise where customers do not pay for product theasset is increased.
The increase in the carrying value of the asset received.
The group therefore considers excise as a cost to the group is restricted to the amount that it would have been had the original and reflects it as a production cost.
Consequently, any excise that is impairment not occurred.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill recovered in the sale price is included in revenue.
Revenue excludes value added tax.
It is stated net of price discounts, Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
Assets subject to promotional discounts, settlement discounts and after an appropriate amortisation are reviewed for impairment if circumstances or events amount has been provided to cover the sales value of credit notes yet change to indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
to be issued that relate to the current and prior periods.
n Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale The same recognition criteria also apply to the sale of by-products Non-current assets and all assets and liabilities classified as held for and waste such as spent grain, malt dust and yeast with the sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less exception that these are included within other income.
ii Interest income Such assets are classified as held for resale if their carrying amount Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through interest method.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is highly probable, the asset or disposal group is available for immediate When a receivable is impaired the group reduces the carrying amount sale in its present condition and when management is committed to to its recoverable amount by discounting the estimated future cash the sale which is expected to qualify for recognition as a completed flows at the original effective interest rate, and continuing to unwind sale within one year from date of classification.
the discount as interest income.
o Provisions iii Royalty income Provisions are recognised when there is a present obligation, whether Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable withthe relevant agreements and is included in other income.
that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the iv Dividend income obligation.
Such provisions are calculated on a discounted basis Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment where the effect is material to the original undiscounted provision.
Thecarrying amount of the provision increases in each period to reflect the passage of time and the unwinding of the discount and s Operating leases themovement is recognised in the income statement within net Rentals paid and incentives received on operating leases are charged finance costs.
or credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and employee termination payments.
Provisions are not recognised for t Exceptional items future operating losses, however, provisions are recognised for Where certain expense or income items recorded in a period are onerous contracts where the unavoidable cost exceeds the material by their size or incidence, the group reflects such items as expectedbenefit.
exceptional items within a separate line on the income statement except for those exceptional items that relate to associates, joint p Share capital ventures, net finance costs and tax.
Associates, joint ventures, net Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly finance costs and tax exceptional items are only referred to in the attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity notes to the consolidated financial statements.
as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Exceptional items are also summarised in the segmental analyses, q Investments in own shares treasury and shares held by excluding those that relate to net finance costs and tax.
employee benefit trusts Shares held by employee share ownership plans, employee benefit The group presents alternative earnings per share calculations on a trusts and in treasury are treated as a deduction from equity until the headline and adjusted basis.
The adjusted earnings per share figure shares are cancelled, reissued, or disposed.
excludes the impact of amortisation of intangible assets excluding software, certain non-recurring items and post-tax exceptional items Purchases of such shares are classified in the cash flow statement as in order to present an additional measure of performance for the years a purchase of own shares for share trusts or purchase of own shares shown in the consolidated financial statements.
Headline earnings per for treasury within net cash from financing activities.
share is calculated in accordance with the South African Circular 3 2009 entitled Headline Earnings which forms part of the listing Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any requirements for the JSE Ltd JSE.
consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental costs and related tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the companys equity shareholders.
98 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued w Employee benefits 1.
Accounting policies continued i Wages and salaries Wages and salaries for current employees are recognised in the u Taxation income statement as the employees services are rendered.
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it ii Vacation and long-term service awards costs relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly The group recognises a liability and an expense for accrued in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive vacationpay when such benefits are earned and not when these income or directly in equity, respectively.
Current tax expense is based on the results for the period as adjusted The group also recognises a liability and an expense for long-term for items that are not taxable or not deductible.
The groups liability for service awards where cash is paid to the employee at certain current taxation is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been milestone dates in a career with the group.
Such accruals are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
appropriately discounted to reflect the future payment dates at discount rates determined by reference to local high-quality Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method, in respect corporatebonds.
ofall temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial iii Profit-sharing and bonus plans statements, except where the temporary difference arises from The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and goodwill in the case of deferred tax liabilities or from the initial profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration recognition other than a business combination of other assets theprofit attributable to the companys shareholders after andliabilities in a transaction that affects neither accounting nor certainadjustments.
The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value of where there is a past practice that has created a constructive anasset is greater than its tax base, or where the carrying value of obligation.
At a mid-year point an accrual is maintained for the aliability is less than its tax base.
Deferred tax is recognised in full appropriate proportion of the expected bonuses which would ontemporary differences arising from investment in subsidiaries, becomepayable at the year end.
associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversalof the temporary difference is controlled by the group and iv Share-based compensation itisprobable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the The group operates a variety of equity-settled share-based foreseeable future.
This includes taxation in respect of the retained compensation plans and a cash-settled share-based earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the compensationplan.
balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable orabinding agreement to distribute past earnings in future periods The equity-settled plans comprise share option plans with and has been entered into by the subsidiary.
Deferred income tax is also without market performance conditions attached, performance recognised in respect of the unremitted retained earnings of overseas shareaward plans with market conditions attached and awards associates and joint ventures as the group is not able to determine related to the employee element of the Broad-Based Black Economic when such earnings will be remitted and when such additional tax Empowerment BBBEE scheme in South Africa.
An expense is such as withholding taxes might be payable.
recognised to spread the fair value of each award granted after 7November 2002 over the vesting period on a straight-line basis, after A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest.
recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it is Acorresponding adjustment is made to equity over the remaining probable that future taxable profit will be available against which vesting period.
The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at least thetemporary differences including carried forward tax losses annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised canbe utilised.
In addition the group has granted an equity-settled share-based payment to retailers in relation to the retailer element of Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates expected to apply in the the BBBEE scheme.
A one-off charge has been recognised based on periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse the fair value at the grant date with a corresponding adjustment to basedon tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively equity.
The charge will not be adjusted in the future.
enacted at balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
The charges are based on the fair value of the awards as at the date of grant, as calculated by various binomial model calculations and v Dividend distributions Monte Carlo simulations.
Dividend distributions to equity holders of the parent are recognised as a liability in the groups financial statements in the period in which The charges are not reversed if the options and awards are not the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim exercised because the market value of the shares is lower than the dividends are recognised when paid.
Dividends declared after the option price at the date of grant.
balance sheet date are not recognised, as there is no present obligation at the balance sheet date.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
For the cash-settled plan a liability is recognised at fair value in the balance sheet over the vesting period with a corresponding charge tothe income statement.
The liability is remeasured at each reporting date, on an actuarial basis using the analytic method, to reflect the revised fair value and to adjust for changes in assumptions such as leavers.
Changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised in the income statement.
Actual settlement of the liability will be at its intrinsic value with the difference recognised in the income statement.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 99 x Derivative financial instruments hedge accounting 1.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit orloss include all derivative financial instruments.
The derivative v Pension obligations instruments used by the group, which are used solely for hedging The group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
purposes i. e. to offset foreign exchange and interest rate risks, comprise interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, forward foreign The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined exchange contracts and other specific instruments as necessary benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit under the approval of the board.
Such derivative instruments are used obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, to alter the risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the group together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
The in line with the groups risk management policies.
The group also has defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent derivatives embedded in other contracts primarily cross border foreign actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value currency supply contracts for raw materials.
ofthe defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends tothe terms of the related pension liability.
on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the hedging relationship.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full as they arise In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required to outside of the income statement and are charged or credited to document at inception, the relationship between the hedged item equityin other comprehensive income in the period in which they andthe hedging instrument as well as its risk management objectives arise, withthe exception of gains or losses arising from changes and strategy for undertaking hedging transactions.
The group is inthebenefits regarding past services, which are recognised in alsorequired to document and demonstrate that the relationship theincomestatement.
between the hedged item and the hedging instrument will be highly effective.
This effectiveness test is reperformed at each period end Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income toensure that the hedge has remained and will continue to remain statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional highly effective.
onthe employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised The group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the on astraight-line basis over the vesting period.
fairvalue of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fairvalue hedge : hedges of highly probable forecast transactions The contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised orcommitments cash flow hedge : or hedges of net investments asanexpense as the costs become payable.
The contributions are inforeign operations net investment hedge.
recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash i Fair value hedges refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Fair value hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated in a hedging relationship to manage the groups interest rate risk vi Other post-employment obligations towhich the fair value of certain assets and liabilities are exposed.
Some group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits Changes in the fair value of the derivative offset the relevant changes toqualifying employees.
The expected costs of these benefits are in the fair value of the underlying hedged item attributable to the assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries and hedged risk in the income statement in the period incurred.
contributions are made to the relevant funds over the expected service lives of the employees entitled to those funds.
Actuarial gains Gains or losses on fair value hedges that are regarded as highly and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in effective are recorded in the income statement together with the actuarial assumptions are recognised in full as they arise outside gainor loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
theincome statement and are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
These ii Cash flow hedges obligations are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
Cash flow hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated in a hedging relationship to manage currency and interest vii Termination benefits rate risk to which the cash flows of certain liabilities are exposed.
The Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative that is before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts designated and qualifies for hedge accounting is recognised in voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The ineffective portion is recognised recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity toterminating the employment of current employees according to a are reclassified to the income statement in the period in which the detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal, or providing hedged item affects profit or loss.
However, where a forecasted termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage transaction results in a non-financial asset or liability, the accumulated voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months fair value movements previously deferred in equity are included in the afterbalance sheet date are discounted to present value in a initial cost of the asset or liability.
similarmanner to all long-term employee benefits.
100 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued y Deposits by customers 1.
Accounting policies continued Returnable containers in circulation are recorded within property, plant and equipment and a corresponding liability is recorded in iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations respect of the obligation to repay the customers deposits.
Deposits Hedges of net investments in foreign operations comprise either paid by customers for branded returnable containers are reflected in foreign currency borrowings or derivatives typically forward the balance sheet within current liabilities.
Any estimated liability that exchangecontracts and cross currency swaps designated in may arise in respect of deposits for unbranded containers is shown ahedging relationship.
Gains or losses on hedging instruments that are regarded as highly z Earnings per share effective are recognised in other comprehensive income.
These Basic earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities largely offset foreign currency gains or losses arising on the translation after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent of net investments that are recorded in equity, in the foreign currency entity, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in translation reserve.
The ineffective portion of gains or losses on issue during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary hedging instruments is recognised immediately in the income shares held in the groups employee benefit trusts and in treasury statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are only reclassified during the year.
totheincome statement upon disposal of the net investment.
Diluted earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities Where a derivative ceases to meet the criteria of being a hedging after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent, instrument or the underlying exposure which it is hedging is sold, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue matures or is extinguished, hedge accounting is discontinued and during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary shares amounts previously recorded in equity are reclassified to the income held in the groups employee benefit trusts and in treasury during the statement.
A similar treatment is applied where the hedge is of a year, plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting future transaction and that transaction is no longer likely to occur.
from share options and other potential ordinary shares outstanding When the hedge is discontinued due to ineffectiveness, hedge during theyear.
Certain derivative instruments, whilst providing effective economic hedges under the groups policies, are not designated as hedges.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify or have not been designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 101 2.
Segmental analysis Operating segments reflect the management structure of the group and the way performance is evaluated and resources allocated based ongroup revenue and EBITA by the groups chief operating decision maker, defined as the executive directors.
The group is focused geographically and, while not meeting the definition of reportable segments, the group reports separately as segments South Africa: Hotels and Gaming and Corporate as this provides useful additional information.
The segmental information presented below includes the reconciliation of GAAP measures presented on the face of the income statement to non-GAAP measures which are used by management to analyse the groups performance.
Income statement Group Group revenue EBITA revenue EBITA 2012 2012 2011 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 7,158 1,865 6,335 1,620 Europe 5,482 836 5,394 887 North America 5,250 756 5,223 741 Africa 3,686 743 3,254 647 Asia Pacific 3,510 321 2,026 92 South Africa: 6,302 1,303 6,079 1,204 Beverages 5,815 1,168 5,598 1,067 Hotels and Gaming 487 135 481 137 Corporate 190 147 Group 31,388 5,634 28,311 5,044 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding software group and share of associates andjoint ventures 264 209 Exceptional items group and share of associates and joint ventures 1,015 467 Net finance costs group and share of associates and joint ventures  570 560 Share of associates and joint ventures taxation 170 139 Share of associates and joint ventures non-controlling interests 42 43 Profit before taxation 5,603 3,626 Group revenue including associates and joint ventures With the exception of South Africa: Hotels and Gaming, all reportable segments derive their revenues from the sale of beverages.
Revenues are derived from a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed, with no customers being individually material.
Segmental analysis continued Operating profit The following table provides a reconciliation of operating profit to operating profit before exceptional items.
Operating Operating profit before profit before Operating Exceptional exceptional Operating Exceptional exceptional profit items items profit items items 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 1,617 119 1,736 1,391 106 1,497 Europe 1,939 1,135 804 596 261 857 North America 16 16 Africa 584 162 422 361 4 365 Asia Pacific 54 70 124 22 22 South Africa: Beverages 1,050 41 1,091 809 188 997 Corporate 231 41 190 24 123 147 Group 5,013 1,026 3,987 3,127 436 3,563 EBITA segment result This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets excluding software and includes the groups share of associates and joint ventures operating profit on a similar basis.
The following table provides a reconciliation of operating profit before exceptional items to EBITA.
Amortisation Amortisation of intangible of intangible Share of assets Share of assets associates excluding associates excluding and joint software and joint software Operating ventures group and Operating ventures group and profit operating share of profit operating share of before profit before associates before profit before associates xceptional exceptional and joint exceptional exceptional and joint items items ventures EBITA items items ventures EBITA 2012 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 1,736 129 1,865 1,497 123 1,620 Europe 804 11 21 836 857 2 28 887 North America 711 45 756 16 679 46 741 Africa 422 318 3 743 365 277 5 647 Asia Pacific 124 132 65 321 22 108 6 92 South Africa: 1,091 211 1 1,303 997 206 1 1,204 Beverages 1,091 77 1,168 997 70 1,067 Hotels and Gaming 134 1 135 136 1 137 Corporate 190 190 147 147 Group 3,987 1,383 264 5,634 3,563 1,272 209 5,044 The groups share of associates and joint ventures operating profit is reconciled to the share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures in the income statement as follows.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Share of associates and joint ventures operating profit before exceptional items 1,383 1,272 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items 11 31 Share of associates and joint ventures net finance costs 30 35 Share of associates and joint ventures taxation 170 139 Share of associates and joint ventures non-controlling interests 42 43 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,152 1,024 e Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 103 2.
Segmental analysis continued EBITDA The following table provides a reconciliation of EBITDA the net cash generated from operations before working capital movements toadjusted EBITDA.
A reconciliation of profit for the year for the group to EBITDA after cash exceptional items for the group can be found innote 28a.
Dividends Dividends Cash received Cash received exceptional from Adjusted exceptional from Adjusted EBITDA items MillerCoors EBITDA EBITDA items MillerCoors EBITDA 2012 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 2,068 112 2,180 1,853 103 1,956 Europe 1,067 58 1,125 1,021 125 1,146 North America 22 896 918 27 822 849 Africa 564 13 577 517 4 521 Asia Pacific 159 88 247 17 17 South Africa: Beverages 1,267 13 1,280 1,143 42 1,185 Corporate 168 24 144 76 19 57 Group 4,979 308 896 6,183 4,502 293 822 5,617 Other segmental information Capital Capital expenditure expenditure excluding excluding investment Investment investment Investment 1 2 1 2 activity activity Total activity activity Total 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 522 34 488 438 55 493 Europe 324 17 341 265 2 263 North America 288 288 171 171 Africa 398 82 316 211 24 235 Asia Pacific 69 10,931 11,000 54 15 69 South Africa: 284 284 275 68 207 Beverages 284 284 275 275 Hotels and Gaming 68 68 Corporate 42 1 43 72 3 75 Group 1,639 11,121 12,760 1,315 198 1,513 1 Capital expenditure includes additions of intangible assets excluding goodwill and property, plant and equipment.
2 Investment activity includes acquisitions and disposals of businesses, net investments in associates and joint ventures, purchases of shares in non-controlling interests and purchases and disposals of available for sale investments.
Depreciation and amortisation 2012 2011 US$m US$m Latin America 445 461 Europe 298 309 Africa 128 126 Asia Pacific 117 29 South Africa: Beverages 168 176 Corporate 26 23 Group 1,182 1,124 104 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segmental analysis continued Geographical information The UK is the parent companys country of domicile.
Those countries which account for more than 10% of the groups total revenue and or non-current assets are considered individually material and are reported separately below.
Non-current assets by location exclude amounts relating to derivative financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 105 3.
Net operating expenses 2012 2011 US$m US$m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 5,049 4,640 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 18 25 Raw materials and consumables used 5,031 4,615 Excise duties 5,047 4,263 Employee costs see note 6a 2,502 2,240 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 909 904 Owned assets 669 662 Under finance lease 3 3 Containers 237 239 Net profit on disposal of businesses 1,242 Profit on disposal of investment in associate 103 159 Gain on remeasurement of existing interest in joint venture on acquisition 66 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 15 5 Amortisation of intangible assets 273 220 Intangible assets excluding software 218 158 Software 55 62 Other expenses 4,906 4,566 Selling, marketing and distribution costs 2,562 2,249 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 325 315 Impairment of intangible assets 14 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 31 Impairment of trade and other receivables 25 91 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 60 61 Operating lease rentals plant, vehicles and systems 84 78 Research and development expenditure 7 7 Acquisition-related costs 109 3 Other operating expenses 1,734 1,717 Total net operating expenses by nature 17,260 16,669 Other income 513 388 Revenue received from royalties 43 40 Dividends received from investments 1 1 Other operating income 469 347 Net operating expenses 16,747 16,281 1 Excise duties of US$5,047 million 2011: US$4,263 million have been incurred during the year as follows: Latin America US$1,843 million 2011: US$1,639 million : Europe US$1,204 million 2011: US$1,160 million : North America US$3 million 2011: US$2 million : Africa US$408 million 2011: US$324 million : AsiaPacific US$626 million 2011: US$219 million and South Africa US$963 million 2011: US$919 million.
The groups share of MillerCoors excise duties incurred during the year was US$703 million 2011: US$719 million.
Foreign exchange differences recognised in the profit for the year, except for those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value underIAS 39, were a loss of US$27 million 2011: gain of US$4 million.
106 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Net operating expenses continued The following fees were paid to a number of different accounting firms as auditors of various parts of the group.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Group auditors Fees payable to the groups auditor and their associates for: The audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 3 2 The audit of group subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 8 8 11 10 Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 1 1 Services relating to taxation 7 3 1 Services relating to information technology 4 1 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 3 1 Other services 3 5 29 20 Other audit firms Fees payable to other audit firms for: Auditing of subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1 2 Services relating to taxation 2 3 1 Services relating to information technology 8 5 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 1 Services relating to internal audit 1 1 Other services 7 9 20 19 1 Principally relating to the business capability programme.
Exceptional items 2012 2011 US$m US$m Exceptional items included in operating profit: Net profit on disposal of businesses 1,248 Profit on disposal of investment in associate 103 159 Gain on remeasurement of existing interest in joint venture on acquisition 66 Litigation 42 Business capability programme costs 235 296 Transaction-related costs 109 Integration and restructuring costs 60 52 Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme costs 29 149 Impairments 98 Net exceptional gains losses included within operating profit 1,026 436 Exceptional items included in net finance costs: Litigation-related interest income 4 Transaction-related net costs 26 Net exceptional losses included within net finance costs 22 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items: Profits losses on transactions in associates 46 26 Impairments 35 Integration and restructuring costs 5 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional gains losses 11 31 Net taxation credits relating to subsidiaries and the groups share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items 24 2 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 107 4.
Exceptional items continued Exceptional items included in operating profit Net profit on disposal of businesses During 2012 a profit of US$1,195 million arose in Europe on the disposal of the groups Russian and Ukrainian businesses in exchange for a 24% interest in the enlarged Anadolu Efes group: a profit of US$67 million arose in Africa on the disposal of the groups Angolan operations in exchange for a 27.5% interest in BIH Angola: partially offset by a loss of US$14 million incurred in Europe primarily in relation to the recycling of the foreign currency translation reserve on the disposal of the distribution business in Italy.
Profit on disposal of investment in associate During 2012 a profit of US$103 million was realised on the disposal of the groups investment in its associate, Kenya Breweries Ltd, in Africa.
In 2011 a profit of US$159 million arose on the partial disposal of the groups shareholding in Tsogo Sun Holdings Pty Ltd Tsogo Sun as part of the Tsogo Sun Gold Reef Resorts Ltd GRR merger.
Gain on remeasurement of existing interest in joint venture on acquisition During 2012 the group acquired the remaining 50% interest which it did not already own in Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd Pacific Beverages fromCoca-Cola Amatil Limited.
This resulted in a US$66 million gain arising on the remeasurement to fair value of the groups existing interest.
Litigation During 2012 in Europe a US$42 million anti-trust fine paid by Grolsch prior to its acquisition by SABMiller plc was annulled by the EU General Court and the payment refunded.
Business capability programme costs The business capability programme will streamline finance, human resources and procurement activities through the deployment of global systems and introduce common sales, distribution and supply chain management systems.
Costs of US$235 million have been incurred in theyear 2011: US$296 million.
Transaction-related costs During 2012 costs of US$109 million were incurred in relation to the Fosters Group Ltd Fosters transaction.
Integration and restructuring costs During 2012 US$34 million of restructuring costs were incurred in Latin America, principally in Ecuador, Peru and the regional office, andUS$26 million of integration costs were incurred in Asia Pacific following the Fosters and Pacific Beverages acquisitions.
In 2011 in Europe US$52 million of restructuring costs were incurred in Romania, the Netherlands, the Canary Islands and Italy.
Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme costs US$29 million 2011: US$149 million of costs have been incurred in relation to the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE scheme in South Africa.
This represents the ongoing IFRS 2 share-based payment charge in respect of the employee element of the scheme and in the prior year also, the one-off IFRS 2 charge in respect of the retailer element, together with the costs associated with the transaction.
Impairments In 2011 impairment charges of US$98 million were incurred in Europe including charges following the classification of the in-house distribution business in Italy as held for sale and the closure of the Cluj brewery in Romania.
Exceptional items included in net finance costs Litigation-related interest income During 2012 US$4 million of interest was received in relation to the refund of the anti-trust fine in Europe.
Transaction-related net costs During 2012 net costs of US$26 million were incurred primarily related to the Fosters transaction and included fees relating to financing facilities and premiums on derivative instruments which were partially offset by mark to market gains on derivative financial instruments taken out in anticipation of the transaction and where hedge accounting could not be applied.
Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items Profits losses on transactions in associates During 2012 Tsogo Sun released deferred consideration relating to a prior acquisition of which the groups share was US$13 million: US$10 million profit arose on Tsogo Suns fair value accounting on the change in control on the acquisition of the outstanding stake in the Formula 1 chain: and a US$23 million profit arose in Africa being the groups share of Castels profit on disposal of its subsidiary in Nigeria.
In 2011 the groups share of the impairment loss on Tsogo Suns existing holding in GRR as a result of the merger transaction between these two businesses and costs associated with the transaction was US$26 million.
Impairments During 2012 the groups share of MillerCoors impairment of the Sparks brand amounted to US$35 million.
Integration and restructuring costs In 2011 the groups share of MillerCoors integration and restructuring costs was US$5 million primarily related to severance costs.
Net taxation credits relating to subsidiaries and the groups share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items Net taxation credits of US$24 million 2011: US$2 million arose in relation to exceptional items during the year and include US$13 million 2011:US$2 million in relation to MillerCoors although the tax credit is recognised in Miller Brewing Company see note 7.
108 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Net finance costs 2012 2011 US$m US$m a.
Interest payable and similar charges Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 170 123 Interest payable on derivatives 156 163 Interest payable on corporate bonds 463 408 Interest element of finance lease payments 1 1 Net exchange losses gains on financing activities 13 14 1 Net exchange losses on dividends 9 Fair value losses on financial instruments: Fair value losses on standalone derivative financial instruments 144 153 Ineffectiveness of net investment hedges 4 4 Exceptional interest payable and similar charges 96 Other finance charges 46 36 Total interest payable and similar charges 1,093 883 b.
Interest receivable and similar income Interest receivable 55 48 Interest receivable on derivatives 226 212 Fair value gains on financial instruments: Fair value gains on standalone derivative financial instruments 170 92 Fair value gains on dividend-related derivatives 3 6 Net exchange gains on dividends 3 Exceptional interest receivable and similar income 74 Total interest receivable and similar income 531 358 Net finance costs 562 525 1 These items have been excluded from the determination of adjusted earnings per share.
Adjusted net finance costs are therefore US$542 million 2011:US$518million.
Refer to note 23 Financial risk factors for interest rate risk information.
Employee and key management compensation costs a.
Employee costs 2012 2011 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 2,038 1,837 Share-based payments 161 130 Social security costs 193 172 Pension costs 112 114 Post-retirement benefits other than pensions 13 5 2,517 2,258 Of the US$2,517 million employee costs shown above, US$15 million 2011: US$18 million has been capitalised within intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
Employee numbers The average monthly number of employees are shown on a full-time equivalent basis, excluding employees of associated and joint venture undertakings and including executive directors.
2012 2011 Number Number Latin America 26,933 25,691 Europe 14,095 14,239 North America 76 51 Africa 13,596 13,481 Asia Pacific 3,804 3,358 South Africa 11,939 11,897 Corporate 701 495 Group 71,144 69,212 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 109 6.
Employee and key management compensation costs continued c. Key management compensation The directors of the group and members of the executive committee excom are defined as key management.
At 31 March 2012 there were 27 2011: 24 key management.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 32 26 Post-employment benefits 2 1 Share-based payments 36 31 70 58 The key management figures given above include the directors.
d. Directors 2012 2011 US$m US$m Aggregate emoluments 6,087,153 2011: 6,559,226 10 10 Aggregate gains made on the exercise of share options or vesting of share awards 15 2 Notional contributions to unfunded retirement benefits scheme 562,679 2011: nil 1 26 12 Malcolm Wyman retired from the board at the conclusion of the 2011 annual general meeting on 21 July 2011 and from full-time employment on 31 August 2011 after which he continued as a part-time employee up to 31 March 2012.
Only his emoluments up to 21 July 2011 are included in the table above.
At 31 March 2012 one director 2011: two had retirement benefits accruing under money purchase pension schemes.
There were no company contributions to money purchase pension schemes during the year 2011: nil.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the directors remuneration report on pages 68 to 83.
Taxation 2012 2011 US$m US$m Current taxation 957 808 Charge for the year UK corporation tax: US$39 million 2011: US$11 million 986 817 Adjustments in respect of prior years 29 9 Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 137 101 Total current taxation 1,094 909 Deferred taxation 32 160 Charge for the year UK corporation tax credit: US$24 million 2011: US$nil 60 183 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3 16 Rate change 25 7 Taxation expense 1,126 1,069 Tax credit relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: Deferred tax credit on actuarial gains and losses 71 36 Deferred tax credit charge on financial instruments 30 14 101 22 Total current tax 1,094 909 Total deferred tax 69 138 Total taxation 1,025 1,047 Effective tax rate % 27.5 28.2 See the financial definitions section for the definition of the effective tax rate.
The calculation is on a basis consistent with that used in prior years and is also consistent with other group operating metrics.
Tax on amortisation of intangible assets excluding software was US$72 million 2011: US$58 million.
MillerCoors is not a taxable entity.
The tax balances and obligations therefore remain with Miller Brewing Company as a 100% subsidiary of the group.
This subsidiarys tax charge includes tax including deferred tax on the groups share of the taxable profits of MillerCoors and includes tax in other comprehensive income on the groups share of MillerCoors taxable items included within other comprehensive income.
110 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Taxation continued Tax rate reconciliation 2012 2011 US$m US$m Profit before taxation 5,603 3,626 Less: share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,152 1,024 4,451 2,602 Tax charge at standard UK rate of 26% 2011: 28% 1,157 729 Exempt income 413 21 Other incentive allowances 63 20 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 47 131 Deferred taxation on changes in tax legislation within Europe division countries 64 Deferred tax asset not recognised 30 32 Initial recognition of deferred taxation 10 Tax impact of MillerCoors joint venture 179 198 Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 137 101 Other taxes 28 36 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 90 22 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 32 25 Deferred taxation rate change 25 7 Deferred taxation on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries 1 1 Total taxation expense 1,126 1,069 8.
Earnings per share 2012 2011 US cents US cents Basic earnings per share 266.6 152.8 Diluted earnings per share 263.8 151.8 Headline earnings per share 179.8 150.8 Adjusted basic earnings per share 214.8 191.5 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 212.5 190.3 The weighted average number of shares was: 2012 2011 Millions of Millions of shares shares Ordinary shares 1,661 1,656 Treasury shares 72 72 EBT ordinary shares 6 8 Basic shares 1,583 1,576 Dilutive ordinary shares 17 10 Diluted shares 1,600 1,586 The calculation of diluted earnings per share excludes 8,362,920 2011: 9,045,847 share options that were non-dilutive for the year because the exercise price of the option exceeded the fair value of the shares during the year, 14,799,716 2011: 12,842,609 share awards that were non-dilutive for the year because the performance conditions attached to the share awards have not been met and nil 2011: 732,869 shares inrelation to the employee component of the BBBEE scheme that were non-dilutive for the year.
These share incentives could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future.
Incentives involving 12,590,280 shares were granted after 31 March 2012 and before the date of signing of these financial statements.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 111 8.
Earnings per share continued Adjusted and headline earnings The group presents an adjusted earnings per share figure which excludes the impact of amortisation of intangible assets excluding software, certain non-recurring items and post-tax exceptional items in order to present an additional measure of performance for the years shown in the consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted earnings per share has been based on adjusted earnings for each financial year and on the same number of weighted average shares in issue as the basic earnings per share calculation.
Headline earnings per share has been calculated in accordance with the South African Circular 3 2009 entitled Headline Earnings which forms part of the listing requirements for the JSE Ltd JSE.
The adjustments made to arrive at headline earnings and adjusted earnings are as follows.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 4,221 2,408 Headline adjustments Impairment of business held for sale 53 Impairment of intangible assets 14 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 31 Net profit on disposal of businesses 1,242 Profit on disposal of investment in associate 103 159 Gain on remeasurement of existing interest in joint venture on acquisition 66 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 15 5 Tax effects of these items 12 14 Non-controlling interests share of the above items 40 1 Share of joint ventures and associates headline adjustments, net of tax and non-controlling interests 20 Headline earnings 2,847 2,377 Business capability programme costs 235 296 Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme costs 29 149 Integration and restructuring costs 60 52 Transaction-related costs 109 Litigation 42 Litigation-related interest income 4 1 Net gain loss on fair value movements on capital items 2 7 Transaction-related net finance costs 26 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding software 218 158 Tax effects of the above items 101 71 Non-controlling interests share of the above items 7 10 Share of joint ventures and associates other adjustments, net of tax and non-controlling interests 32 60 Adjusted earnings 3,400 3,018 1 This does not include all fair value movements but includes those in relation to capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be applied.
Dividends 2012 2011 US$m US$m Equity 2011 Final dividend paid: 61.5 US cents 2010: 51.0 US cents per ordinary share 973 806 2012 Interim dividend paid: 21.5 US cents 2011: 19.5 US cents per ordinary share 351 309 1,324 1,115 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend of 69.5 US cents per share in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2012, whichwill absorb an estimated US$1,103 million of shareholders funds.
If approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 17 August 2012 to shareholders registered on the London and Johannesburg registers on 10 August 2012.
The total dividend per share for the year is 91.0US cents 2011: 81.0 US cents.
Treasury shares do not attract dividends and the employee benefit trusts have both waived their right to receive dividends further information can be found in note 27.
112 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Goodwill US$m Cost At 1 April 2010 11,918 Exchange adjustments 348 Acquisitions through business combinations 43 1 At 31 March 2011 12,309 Exchange adjustments 187 Acquisitions through business combinations provisional see note 30 8,049 Disposals 63 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale see note 19 29 At 31 March 2012 20,453 Accumulated impairment At 1 April 2010 339 Exchange adjustments 16 At 31 March 2011 355 Exchange adjustments 20 Disposals 10 At 31 March 2012 325 Net book amount At 1 April 2010 11,579 1 At 31 March 2011 11,954 At 31 March 2012 20,128 1 As restated see note 29.
2012 Provisional goodwill arose on the acquisition through business combinations in the year of Fosters and Pacific Beverages in Australia and International Breweries plc in Nigeria.
The fair value exercises in respect of these business combinations have yet to be completed.
2011 Goodwill arose on the acquisition through business combinations of Cervecera Argentina SA Isenbeck CASA Isenbeck in Argentina andCrown Beverages Ltd previously Crown Foods Ltd in Kenya.
The fair value exercises in respect of these business combinations are nowcomplete.
Goodwill is monitored principally on an individual country basis and the net book value is allocated by cash generating unit CGU as follows.
1 2012 2011 US$m US$m CGUs: Latin America: Central America 819 830 Colombia 4,809 4,590 Peru 1,744 1,667 Other Latin America 243 245 Europe: Czech Republic 976 1,046 Netherlands 104 109 Italy 431 457 Poland 1,218 1,343 Other Europe 77 126 North America 256 256 Africa 256 181 Asia Pacific: Australia 8,215 India 350 392 Other Asia Pacific 12 12 South Africa 618 700 20,128 11,954 1 As restated see note 29.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 113 10.
Goodwill continued Assumptions The recoverable amount for a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations.
Value in use is determined by discounting the future post-tax cash flows generated from continuing use of the CGU using a post-tax discount rate, as this closely approximates to applying pre-taxdiscount rates to pre-tax cash flows.
Where a potential impairment is identified using post-tax cash flows and post-tax discount rates, the impairment review is reperformed on a pre-tax basis in order to determine the impairment loss to be recorded.
The key assumptions forthevalue in use calculations are as follows: Expected volume growth rate Cash flows are based on financial forecasts approved by management covering five-year periods and are dependent on the expected volume growth rates.
Discount rate The discount rate weighted average cost of capital is calculated using a methodology which reflects the returns from United States Treasury notes with a maturity of 20 years, and an equity risk premium adjusted for specific industry and country risks.
The group applies local post-tax discount rates to local post-tax cash flows.
Long-term growth rate Cash flows after the first five-year period were extrapolated using a long-term growth rate, in order to calculate the terminal recoverable amount.
The following table presents the key assumptions used in the value in use calculations in each of the groups operating segments: Expected volume growth rates Post-tax Long-term 2013-2017 discount rates growth rates Latin America 4.2%18.6% 8.0%13.1% 2.0%3.0% Europe 1.8%8.9% 7.7%9.9% 2.0%3.5% North America 8.5% 7.1% 2.5% Africa 1.9%15.1% 8.3%12.6% 2.5%7.1% Asia Pacific 2.6%19.2% 7.6%10.3% 2.3%7.0% South Africa 2.8% 8.8% 3.0% Impairment reviews results As a result of the annual impairment reviews, no impairment losses have been recognised in the year 2011: US$nil.
Sensitivities to assumptions The groups impairment reviews are sensitive to changes in the key assumptions described above.
Based on the groups sensitivity analysis, areasonably possible change in a single assumption will not cause an impairment loss in any of the groups CGUs.
114 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Intangible assets Computer Brands software Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2010 4,724 430 71 5,225 Exchange adjustments 106 21 4 131 Additions separately acquired 20 102 4 126 Acquisitions through business combinations 10 10 Transfers 3 3 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 8 8 Disposals 23 23 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale 1 28 29 1 At 31 March 2011 4,860 540 48 5,448 Exchange adjustments 303 32 12 283 Additions separately acquired 6 165 171 Acquisitions through business combinations see note 30 4,775 596 5,371 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 3 3 Disposals 28 30 58 At 31 March 2012 9,916 646 656 11,218 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2010 617 223 31 871 Exchange adjustments 14 13 3 30 Amortisation 151 62 7 220 Disposals 22 22 Impairment 14 14 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale 1 28 29 At 31 March 2011 782 275 27 1,084 Exchange adjustments 23 17 2 4 Amortisation 201 55 17 273 Disposals 18 26 44 At 31 March 2012 988 287 42 1,317 Net book amount At 1 April 2010 4,107 207 40 4,354 1 At 31 March 2011 4,078 265 21 4,364 At 31 March 2012 8,928 359 614 9,901 1 As restated see note 29.
During 2012 no impairment charge in respect of intangible assets was incurred 2011: US$14 million related to the impairment of intangible assets transferred to disposal group classified as held for sale.
At 31 March 2012 significant individual brands included within the carrying value of intangible assets are as follows.
Amortisation period 2012 2011 remaining US$m US$m years Brand carrying value Carlton Australia 2,181 40 guila Colombia 1,557 1,529 33 Victoria Bitter Australia 1,101 40 Cristal Peru 646 634 33 Grolsch Netherlands 451 492 36 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 115 12.
Property, plant and equipment Assets in Plant, course of Land and vehicles Returnable construction buildings and systems containers Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2010 543 3,387 8,008 2,105 14,043 Exchange adjustments 3 126 300 87 516 Additions 551 45 352 273 1,221 Acquisitions through business combinations 14 9 23 Breakages and shrinkage 172 172 Transfers 733 222 462 49 Transfers to intangible assets 6 2 8 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale 5 66 71 Disposals 46 276 97 419 1 At 31 March 2011 358 3,743 8,787 2,245 15,133 Exchange adjustments 15 99 350 106 570 Additions 801 20 369 306 1,496 Acquisitions through business combinations see note 30 54 342 515 12 923 Breakages and shrinkage 73 73 Transfers 563 118 383 62 Transfers to intangible assets 3 3 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale see note 19 10 44 54 Disposals 48 354 1,268 379 2,049 At 31 March 2012 584 3,760 8,392 2,067 14,803 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2010 553 3,552 1,023 5,128 Exchange adjustments 33 175 50 258 Provided during the year 80 585 239 904 Breakages and shrinkage 123 123 Impairment 10 21 31 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale 5 66 71 Transfers 3 3 Disposals 4 248 73 325 At 31 March 2011 667 4,016 1,119 5,802 Exchange adjustments 29 174 57 260 Provided during the year 78 594 237 909 Breakages and shrinkage 26 26 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale see note 19 2 25 27 Disposals 42 635 217 894 At 31 March 2012 672 3,776 1,056 5,504 Net book amount At 1 April 2010 543 2,834 4,456 1,082 8,915 1 At 31 March 2011 358 3,076 4,771 1,126 9,331 At 31 March 2012 584 3,088 4,616 1,011 9,299 As restated see note 29.
Included in land and buildings is freehold land with a cost of US$742 million 2011: US$616 million which is not depreciated.
116 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Property, plant and equipment continued Included in plant, vehicles and systems are the following amounts relating to assets held under finance leases.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Net book amount 34 13 Included in the amounts above are the following amounts in respect of borrowing costs capitalised.
2012 2011 US$m US$m At 1 April 56 58 Exchange adjustments 2 2 Amortised during the year 1 6 Capitalised during the year 2 At 31 March 53 56 Borrowing costs of US$nil 2011: US$2 million were capitalised during the year.
Borrowings are secured by various of the groups property, plant and equipment with an aggregate net book value of US$20 million 2011:US$161 million.
Investments in joint ventures A list of the groups significant investments in joint ventures, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
US$m At 1 April 2010 5,822 Exchange adjustments 12 Investments in joint ventures 186 Share of results retained 667 Share of losses recognised in other comprehensive income 52 Dividends received 822 At 31 March 2011 5,813 Investments in joint ventures 288 Transfer to subsidiary undertaking 100 Share of results retained 671 Share of losses recognised in other comprehensive income 256 Dividends received 896 At 31 March 2012 5,520 On 13 January 2012 the remaining 50% interest in Pacific Beverages was purchased and from this date the company has been accounted for as a subsidiary.
Summarised financial information for the groups interest in joint ventures is shown below.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Revenue 5,174 5,157 Expenses 4,502 4,489 Profit after tax 672 668 Non-current assets 5,613 5,837 Current assets 573 675 Current liabilities 528 531 Non-current liabilities 801 783 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 117 14.
Investments in associates A list of the groups significant investments in associates, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
US$m At 1 April 2010 2,213 Exchange adjustments 136 Investments in associates 168 Repayment of investments by associates 68 Share of results retained 357 Share of gains recognised in other comprehensive income 2 Dividends receivable 89 At 31 March 2011 2,719 Exchange adjustments 107 Investments in associates 2,056 Repayment of investments by associates 14 Acquisitions through business combinations see note 30 65 Disposal of investments in associates 104 Share of results retained 481 Dividends receivable 150 At 31 March 2012 4,946 2012 On 1 January 2012 the group acquired a 27.5% interest in BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Angola Ltd BIH Angola in exchange for contributing its Angolan businesses, including its associate, Empresa fide Cervejas NGola SARL, into BIH Angola.
Castel acquired the remaining 72.5% in BIH Angola, having contributed its Angolan businesses into BIH Angola.
On 6 March 2012 the group completed its strategic alliance with Anadolu Efes.
The groups Russian business, SABMiller RUS LLC, and Ukrainian business, PJSC Miller Brands Ukraine, were contributed to Anadolu Efes, inexchange for a 24% equity stake in the enlarged Anadolu Efes group.
On 25 November 2011 the group disposed of its effective 12% investment in Kenya Breweries Ltd, generating a profit of US$103 million.
2011 On 24 February 2011 the Tsogo Sun Group merged with GRR, a Johannesburg Stock Exchange listed business, through an all share merger.
The transaction was effected through the acquisition by GRR of Tsogo Sun, and the group exchanged its entire 49% shareholding in Tsogo Sun for a 39.68% shareholding in the listed enlarged entity which resulted in a profit of US$159 million on the partial disposal of the groups shareholding in Tsogo Sun and a loss of US$26 million being the groups share of its associates loss on the merger transaction.
The increase in the investments in associates includes US$159 million being the groups share of the fair value uplift on the investment in the enlarged entity.
On 4 November 2010 Tsogo Sun Gaming Pty Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the groups associate, Tsogo Sun, repaid the ZAR490 million US$68 million preference shares issued to SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the group.
The analysis of associated undertakings between listed and unlisted investments is shown below.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Listed 2,536 662 Unlisted 2,410 2,057 4,946 2,719 As at 31 March the market value of listed investments included above is: Anadolu Efes 1,985 Distell Group Ltd 574 624 Delta Corporation Ltd 204 188 Tsogo Sun Holdings Ltd formerly Gold Reef Resorts Ltd 1,032 1,028 Summarised financial information for associates for total assets, total liabilities, revenue and profit or loss on a 100% basis is shown below.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Total assets 18,731 14,046 Total liabilities 6,231 5,730 Revenue 12,963 10,921 Net profit 1,760 1,276 Some of the groups investments in associated undertakings which operate in African countries are also subject to local exchange control regulations.
These local exchange control regulations provide for restrictions on exporting capital from those countries, other than through normal dividends.
118 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Available for sale investments US$m At 1 April 2010 32 Exchange adjustments 1 Additions 3 Impairment 1 At 31 March 2011 35 Exchange adjustments 2 Additions 1 Disposals 3 At 31 March 2012 31 2012 2011 US$m US$m Analysed as: Non-current 30 35 Current 1 31 35 In 2011 the impairment related to the full impairment of the available for sale investments transferred to disposal group classified as held forsale.
Available for sale investments are denominated in the following currencies.
2012 2011 US$m US$m SA rand 16 18 US dollars 9 9 Peruvian nuevo sol 2 3 Other currencies 4 5 31 35 An analysis of available for sale investments between listed and unlisted is shown below.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Listed 3 3 Unlisted 28 32 31 35 The fair values of unlisted investments are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the market interest rate and the risk premium specific to unlisted securities, or by reference to valuations provided by third party investment managers.
The fair value of listed investments have been determined by reference to quoted stock exchanges.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the securities classified as available for sale.
Inventories 2012 2011 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 675 746 Work in progress 123 122 Finished goods and goods for resale 457 388 1,255 1,256 The following amount of inventories are expected to be utilised after 12 months.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 43 35 There were no borrowings secured on the inventories of the group 2011: US$nil.
An impairment charge of US$12 million was recognised in respect of inventories during the year 2011: US$20 million.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 119 17.
Trade and other receivables 2012 2011 US$m US$m Trade receivables 1,545 1,380 Less: provision for impairment 140 147 Trade receivables net 1,405 1,233 Other receivables 495 463 Less: provision for impairment 12 14 Other receivables net 483 449 Amounts owed by associates 205 12 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 6 5 Prepayments and accrued income 193 128 Total trade and other receivables 2,292 1,827 Analysed as: Current Trade receivables net 1,389 1,219 Other receivables net 373 326 Amounts owed by associates 205 12 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 6 5 Prepayments and accrued income 183 125 2,156 1,687 Non-current Trade receivables net 16 14 Other receivables net 110 123 Prepayments and accrued income 10 3 136 140 The net carrying values of trade and other receivables are considered a close approximation of their fair values.
At 31 March 2012 trade and other receivables of US$441 million 2011: US$333 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to customers of whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing of these trade and other receivables is shown below.
Past due Fully Within Over performing 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-180 days 180 days US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2012 Trade receivables 1,140 129 58 15 23 29 Other receivables 356 16 13 4 18 3 Amounts owed by associates 72 8 6 12 107 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 6 At 31 March 2011 Trade receivables 944 133 53 23 23 37 Other receivables 180 36 8 5 6 9 Amounts owed by associates trade 12 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 5 The group holds collateral as security for past due trade receivables to the value of US$28 million 2011: US$33 million and for past due other receivables of US$nil 2011: US$1 million.
Collateral held primarily includes bank guarantees and charges over assets.
At 31 March 2012 trade receivables of US$151 million 2011: US$167 million were determined to be specifically impaired and provided for.
Theamount of the provision at 31 March 2012 was US$140 million 2011: US$147 million and reflects trade receivables from customers which are considered to be experiencing difficult economic situations.
It was assessed that a portion of these receivables is expected to be recovered.
The group holds collateral as security against specifically impaired trade receivables with a fair value of US$1 million 2011: US$4 million.
At 31 March 2012 other receivables of US$13 million 2011: US$15 million were determined to be specifically impaired and provided for.
Theamount of the provision at 31 March 2012 was US$12 million 2011: US$14 million and reflects loans to customers which are considered tobe experiencing difficult economic situations.
The group didnot hold collateral as security against specifically impaired other receivables at 31 March 2012 or 31 March 2011.
120 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Trade and other receivables continued The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies.
2012 2011 US$m US$m SA rand 413 397 US dollars 355 175 Australian dollars 337 3 Euro 241 229 Colombian peso 162 138 Czech koruna 89 97 British pound 79 87 Polish zloty 142 160 Other currencies 474 541 2,292 1,827 Movements on the provisions for impairment of trade receivables and other receivables are as follows.
Trade receivables Other receivables 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 147 156 14 11 Provision for receivables impairment 25 89 2 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 7 35 1 Acquisitions through business combinations 5 1 Disposals 20 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale 1 73 Exchange adjustments 9 9 1 1 At 31 March 140 147 12 14 The creation of provisions for impaired receivables is included in net operating expenses in the income statement see note 3.
Cash and cash equivalents 2012 2011 US$m US$m Short-term deposits 103 551 Cash at bank and in hand 642 516 745 1,067 Cash and short-term deposits of US$144 million 2011: US$143 million are held in African countries including South Africa and are subject to local exchange control regulations.
The group operates notional cash pools.
The structures facilitate interest and balance compensation of cash and bank overdrafts.
These notional pooling arrangements meet the set-off rules under IFRS and, as a result, the cash and overdraft balances have been reported net onthe balance sheet.
Effective 1 January 2012 the group combined the operational management of its Angolan businesses, in Africa, with the Angolan businesses of its associate, Castel, with all of the Angolan businesses, in which the group retains an associate interest, being managed from that date by Castel.
As a result, a participation ina bank loan of US$100 million previously owed by an Angolan subsidiary of the group is no longer entitled to be offset within borrowings.
The loan participation has been separately disclosed on the balance sheet as a loan participation deposit, and in the cash flow statement, has not been treated as a cash and cash equivalent as it is not readily convertible into cash in accordance with IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 121 19.
Disposal group held for sale Following the Fosters acquisition, and the subsequent purchase of the 50% interest in Pacific Beverages from Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd, the group has agreed to dispose of Fosters interests in its Fijian beverage operations, Fosters Group Pacific Limited FGPL, subject to regulatory approvals.
Accordingly the assets and liabilities related to FGPL have been presented as held for sale.
In the prior year, the assets and liabilities related to the in-house distribution business in Italy were presented as held for sale, and the disposal group presented within Europe in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating segments.
The distribution business was disposed of on 13 June 2011. a.
Assets of disposal group classified as held for sale 2012 2011 US$m US$m Goodwill 29 Property, plant and equipment 27 Inventories 18 19 Trade and other receivables 5 38 Current tax assets 5 Cash and cash equivalents 4 79 66 b.
Liabilities of disposal group classified as held for sale 2012 2011 US$m US$m Borrowings 1 Trade and other payables 3 55 Provisions 1 10 Deferred tax liabilities 2 Current tax liabilities 1 7 66 20.
Trade and other payables 1 2012 2011 US$m US$m Trade payables 1,262 1,103 Accruals 1,022 760 Deferred income 14 20 Containers in the hands of customers 449 493 Amounts owed to associates trade 42 24 Amounts owed to joint ventures trade 17 16 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 12 3 Excise duty payable 383 365 VAT and other taxes payable 248 189 Other payables 717 612 Total trade and other payables 4,166 3,585 Analysed as: Current Trade payables 1,262 1,103 Accruals 1,022 760 Deferred income 6 6 Containers in the hands of customers 449 493 Amounts owed to associates trade 42 24 Amounts owed to joint ventures trade 17 16 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 3 1 Excise duty payable 383 365 VAT and other taxes payable 248 189 Other payables 622 530 4,054 3,487 Non-current Deferred income 8 14 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 9 2 Other payables 95 82 112 98 1 As restated see note 29.
122 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Deferred taxation The movement on the net deferred tax liability is shown below.
2012 2011 US$m US$m At 1 April 2,394 2,210 Exchange adjustments 60 45 Acquisitions through business combinations see note 30 1,460 1 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale see note 19 2 Disposals 26 Rate change 25 7 Transfers to current tax 17 Charged to the income statement 57 167 Deferred tax on items charged credited to other comprehensive income: Financial instruments 30 14 Actuarial gains and losses 71 36 At 31 March 3,800 2,394 The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities after offsetting of balances as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Pensions and postretirement Investment in Fixed asset benefit Financial MillerCoors Other timing allowances provisions Intangibles instruments joint venture differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities At 1 April 2010 656 13 1,210 97 599 19 2,374 Exchange adjustments 23 1 27 1 4 46 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 1 Rate change 2 9 1 10 Transfers from deferred tax assets 3 5 27 53 34 Charged credited to the income statement 37 10 41 43 142 32 223 Deferred tax on items credited charged to other comprehensive income: Financial instruments 7 7 14 Actuarial gains and losses 9 27 36 At 31 March 2011 711 16 1,187 48 748 4 2,578 Exchange adjustments 32 1 96 8 55 Acquisitions through business combinations see note 30 21 1,601 5 165 1,462 Disposals 49 2 4 55 Rate change 25 25 Transfers to current tax 1 16 15 Transfers to from deferred tax assets 2 23 21 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale 2 2 Charged credited to the income statement 112 5 62 37 51 41 Deferred tax on items charged to other comprehensive income: Financial instruments 1 29 30 Actuarial gains and losses 2 69 71 At 31 March 2012 766 14 2,820 46 687 296 3,917 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 123 21.
Deferred taxation continued Pensions and postretirement Provisions Fixed asset benefit and Other timing allowances provisions accruals differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax assets At 1 April 2010 3 7 67 87 164 Exchange adjustments 1 1 Rate change 3 3 Transfers to deferred tax liabilities 3 5 21 5 34 Charged credited to the income statement 2 13 45 56 At 31 March 2011 60 124 184 Exchange adjustments 1 1 5 5 Acquisitions through business combinations see note 30 2 2 Disposals 4 7 18 29 Transfers to current tax 2 2 Rate change 1 1 Transfers from to deferred tax liabilities 2 1 22 21 Charged credited to the income statement 1 5 20 16 At 31 March 2012 57 60 117 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
The deferred tax asset arises due to timing differences in Europe, Africa, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Corporate.
Given both recent and forecast trading, the directors are of the opinion that the level of profits in the foreseeable future is more likely than not to be sufficient to recover these assets.
Deferred tax liabilities of US$3,860 million 2011: US$2,568 million are expected to fall due after more than one year.
Deferred tax assets of US$71 million 2011: US$103 million are expected to be recovered after more than one year.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: Tax losses 161 144 Tax credits 40 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 13 11 Share-based payments 25 29 Other deductible temporary differences 107 113 306 337 Deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses are not recognised unless there is convincing evidence that there will be sufficient profits in future years to recover the assets.
A significant part of the tax losses arise in the UK and the value has been calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 24%.
Ithas beenannounced that the rate will fall annually to 23% and 22% commencing 1 April 2013.
The impact of these reductions isnot anticipated to have a material impact on the financial statements.
The deferred tax assets will not expire, unlike 2011 where US$40 million tax credits were set to expire if conditions for utilisation were not met.
Deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where there is an intention to distribute those reserves.
Adeferred tax liability of US$37 million 2011: US$31 million has been recognised.
A deferred tax liability of US$51 million 2011: US$75 million has also been recognised in respect of unremitted profits of associates where a dividend policy is not in place.
No deferred tax has been recognised on temporary differences of US$8,600 million 2011: US$6,900 million relating to unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where either the overseas profits will not be distributed in the foreseeable future, or, where there are plans to remit overseas earnings of subsidiaries, it is not expected that such distributions will give rise to a tax liability.
No deferred tax liability is recognised as the group is able tocontrol the timing of the reversal of these differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
As a result of UK legislation which largely exempts from UK tax the overseas dividends received, the temporary differences arising on unremitted profits are unlikely to lead to additional corporate taxes.
However, remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in ataxliability, principally as a result of withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
124 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Borrowings 2012 2011 US$m US$m Current Secured Overdrafts 10 21 Obligations under finance leases 5 4 Other secured loans 6 10 21 35 Unsecured 1 ZAR1,600 million 9.935% Notes due 2012 209 2 COP370 billion IPC 8.18% Ordinary Bonds due 2012 220 3 US$600 million 6.2% Notes due 2011 609 Other unsecured loans 484 464 Overdrafts 128 237 1,041 1,310 Total current borrowings 1,062 1,345 The fair value of current borrowings equals the carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
1 On 19 July 2007 SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd issued ZAR1,600 million, 9.935% Guaranteed Notes due July 2012, guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
The notes were issued under the ZAR4,000 million increased to ZAR6,000 million on 24 December 2008 Domestic Medium Term Note Programme established on 17 July 2007.
The notes are redeemable in whole but not in part at the option of the issuer upon the occurrence ofcertain changes in taxation at their principal amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
2 With effect from 31 March 2011 98.7% of the bonds issued by Bavaria SA have been guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
3 On 28 June 2006, SABMiller plc issued US$600 million, 6.2% Notes due July 2011.
The notes were repaid on 1 July 2011.
Borrowings continued The fair value of non-current borrowings is US$18,821 million 2011: US$7,587 million.
The fair values are based on a combination of market quoted prices and cash flows discounted using prevailing interest rates.
1 On 17 January 2012 SABMiller Holdings Inc issued US$1,000 million, 1.85% Notes due January 2015, US$2,000 million, 2.45% Notes due January 2017, US$2,500 million, 3.75% Notes due January 2022 and US$1,500 million, 4.95% Notes due January 2042, guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
2 The notes are redeemable in whole or in part at any time at the option of the issuer at a redemption price equal to the make-whole amount.
3 The notes are redeemable in whole but not in part at the option of the issuer upon the occurrence of certain changes in taxation at their principal amount withaccrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
4 On 7 August 2003 Miller Brewing Company issued US$1,100 million, 5.5% Guaranteed Notes due August 2013.
Since 1 July 2008 SABMiller plc has been thesole obligor of the notes.
5 On 17 July 2009 SABMiller plc issued 1,000 million, 4.5% Notes due January 2015.
The notes were issued under the US$5,000 million Euro Medium Term NoteProgramme.
6 On 7 August 2003 SABMiller plc issued US$300 million, 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due August 2033.
Since 10 September 2010 the principal and interest inrespect of the notes has not been guaranteed.
7 On 28 June 2006 SABMiller plc issued US$850 million, 6.5% Notes due July 2016.
8 On 17 July 2008 SABMiller plc issued US$550 million, 5.7% Notes due January 2014 and US$700 million, 6.5% Notes due July 2018.
9 On 12 March 2010 SABMiller plc issued PEN150 million, 6.75% Notes due March 2015.
10 On 5 October 2004 Fosters Finance Corp issued US$300 million, 4.875% Notes due October 2014, guaranteed by Fosters.
11 On 28 June 2005 FBG Finance Ltd issued US$700 million, 5.125% Notes due June 2015 and US$300 million, 5.875% Notes due June 2035, guaranteed by Fosters.
12 On 3 June 1996 FBG Finance Ltd issued US$300 million, 7.875% Notes due June 2016, guaranteed by Fosters.
13 With effect from 31 March 2011 85.5% of the 2014 bonds, 94.0% of the 2015 bonds, 98.7% of the 2012 bonds and 97.4% of the 2013 bonds, all issued by Bavaria SA, have been guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
14 On 19 July 2007 SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd issued ZAR1,600 million, 9.935% Guaranteed Notes due July 2012, guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
The notes wereissued under the ZAR4,000 million increased to ZAR6,000 million on 24 December 2008 Domestic Medium Term Note Programme established on 17July2007.
15 On 9 September 2011 the group entered into US$12,500 million, multicurrency committed syndicated facilities primarily for the purpose of acquiring Fosters.
By31 March 2012 US$9,081 million of this facility had been voluntarily cancelled.
Of the remaining US$3,419 million facility, US$500 million is a revolving credit facility and undrawn.
16 On 11 June 2012 SABMiller Holdings Inc entered into a contingent guarantee of the obligations of SABMiller plc in respect of these Notes and certain of its other present and future external borrowings.
This guarantee takes effect upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events in relation to SABMiller plc.
126 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Borrowings continued Undrawn borrowing facilities The group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Amounts expiring: Within one year 774 967 Between one and two years 12 2,118 Between two and five years 788 79 In five years or more 2,236 3,810 3,164 In April 2011 the group entered into a five-year US$2,500 million committed syndicated facility, with the option of two one-year extensions.
InMarch 2012 the maturity of US$2,236 million of this facility was extended to April 2017.
This facility replaced the US$2,000 million and US$600 million committed syndicated facilities, which were both voluntarily cancelled and which are shown in the comparatives in the table above as expiring between one and two years and within one year respectively.
The contingent guarantee referred to in footnote 16 on page 125 extends to the obligations of SABMiller plc in respect of this facility.
Maturity of obligations under finance leases Obligations under finance leases are as follows.
2012 2011 US$m US$m The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows.
Within one year 6 4 Between one and five years 17 5 23 9 Future finance charges 2 Present value of finance lease liabilities 21 9 Maturity of non-current financial liabilities The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the groups non-current financial liabilities at 31 March was as follows.
Net derivative Net derivative Borrowings financial Borrowings financial 1 1 and Finance assets 2012 and Finance assets 2011 overdrafts leases note 24 Total overdrafts leases note 24 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Amounts falling due: Between one and two years 1,964 2 8 1,958 593 3 590 Between two and five years 10,605 14 356 10,263 4,458 5 80 4,383 In five years or more 5,579 254 5,325 2,059 228 1,831 18,148 16 618 17,546 7,110 5 311 6,804 1 Net borrowings-related derivative financial instruments only.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 127 23.
Financial risk factors Financial risk management Overview In the normal course of business, the group is exposed to the following financial risks: Market risk Credit risk Liquidity risk This note explains the groups exposure to each of the above risks, aided by quantitative disclosures included throughout these consolidated financial statements, and it summarises the policies and processes that are in place to measure and manage the risks arising, including those related to the management of capital.
The directors are ultimately responsible for the establishment and oversight of the groups risk management framework.
An essential part of this framework is the role undertaken by the audit committee of the board, supported by the internal audit function, and by the chief financial officer, who in this regard is supported by the treasury committee and the group treasury function.
Amongst other responsibilities, the audit committee reviews the internal control environment and risk management systems within the group and it reports its activities to the board.
Theboard also receives a quarterly report on treasury activities, including confirmation of compliance with treasury risk management policies.
The group treasury function is responsible for the management of cash, borrowings and the financial risks arising in relation to interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The responsibility for the management of commodities exposures lies with the procurement functions within the group, including Trinity Procurement GmbH Trinity, the groups centralised procurement function.
Risk management of key brewing and packaging materials has now been substantially transferred to Trinity.
Some of the risk management strategies include the use ofderivatives, principally in the form of forward foreign currency contracts, cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps and exchange-traded futures contracts, in order to manage the currency, interest rate and commodities exposures arising from the groups operations.
The group also purchases call options where these provide a cost-effective hedging alternative and, where they form part of an option collar strategy, thegroup also sells put options to reduce or eliminate the cost of purchased options.
It is the policy of the group that no trading in financial instruments be undertaken.
The groups treasury policies are established to identify and analyse the financial risks faced by the group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor exposures and adherence to limits.
Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The group is subject to exposure on the translation of the foreign currency denominated net assets of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures into the groups US dollar reporting currency.
The group seeks to mitigate this exposure, where cost effective, by borrowing in the same currencies as the functional currencies of its main operating units or by achieving the same effect through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps.
An approximate nominal value of US$4,429 million of US dollar borrowings and 255 million of euro borrowings have been swapped into currencies that match the currency of the underlying operations of the group, including South African rand, Peruvian nuevo sol, Czech koruna, Polish zloty, Australian dollar and Colombian peso.
Of these financial derivatives, US$2,406 million and 255million are accounted for as net investment hedges.
The group does not hedge currency exposures from the translation of profits earned in foreign currency subsidiaries, associates and jointventures.
The group is also exposed to transactional currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of group entities.
These exposures are presently managed locally by group entities which, subject to regulatory constraints or currency market limitations, hedge a proportion of their foreign currency exposure estimated to arise over a period of up to 18months.
Committed transactional exposures that are certain are hedged fully without limitation in time.
The group principally uses forward exchange contracts to hedge currency risk.
128 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Financial risk factors continued The tables below set out the groups currency exposures from financial assets and liabilities held by group companies in currencies other than their functional currencies and resulting in exchange movements in the income statement and balance sheet.
Other Latin Australian European American US dollars SA rand dollars Euro currencies currencies Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Trade and other receivables 25 130 4 46 155 61 421 1 Derivative financial instruments 2,273 40 543 231 21 3,108 Cash and cash equivalents 50 7 1 22 5 2 21 108 Intra-group assets 278 63 17 1,080 323 3 1,764 At 31 March 2012 2,626 240 22 1,691 714 2 106 5,401 Potential impact on earnings loss gain 20% increase in functional currency 345 40 4 211 81 15 696 20% decrease in functional currency 414 47 4 254 97 19 835 Potential impact on other comprehensive income loss gain 20% increase in functional currency 93 1 71 39 2 206 20% decrease in functional currency 111 1 85 46 2 245 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 160 54 18 159 384 19 21 815 Derivative financial instruments 236 492 1,035 121 709 510 3,103 Borrowings 1,692 2,069 1,381 56 62 5,260 Intra-group liabilities 8 79 278 159 189 2 715 At 31 March 2012 2,096 625 3,400 1,820 1,282 585 85 9,893 Potential impact on earnings gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 349 22 49 287 95 3 15 820 20% decrease in functional currency 419 27 59 344 115 4 16 984 Potential impact on other comprehensive income gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 82 517 17 118 95 829 20% decrease in functional currency 98 621 20 142 113 994 1 These represent the notional amounts of derivative financial instruments.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 129 23.
Financial risk factors continued Other Other European African US dollars SA rand Euro currencies currencies Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Trade and other receivables 34 216 42 2 62 92 448 Derivative financial instruments 540 16 488 486 69 1,599 Cash and cash equivalents 45 10 121 7 13 14 210 Intra-group assets 143 1,338 539 29 2,049 At 31 March 2011 762 242 1,989 1,034 75 204 4,306 Potential impact on earnings loss gain 20% increase in functional currency 50 40 289 137 13 34 563 20% decrease in functional currency 60 48 346 165 15 41 675 Potential impact on other comprehensive income loss gain 20% increase in functional currency 77 43 35 155 20% decrease in functional currency 92 51 42 185 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 293 111 182 13 27 175 801 Derivative financial instruments 93 668 355 1,195 117 2,428 Borrowings 40 1,515 43 147 1,745 Intra-group liabilities 12 146 314 306 1 43 822 At 31 March 2011 438 925 2,366 1,514 71 482 5,796 Potential impact on earnings gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 73 49 316 140 12 41 631 20% decrease in functional currency 88 59 380 167 14 49 757 Potential impact on other comprehensive income gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 105 78 113 39 335 20% decrease in functional currency 126 93 135 47 401 1 These represent the notional amounts of derivative financial instruments.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis Currency risks arise on account of financial instruments being denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency and being of amonetary nature.
The group holds foreign currency cash flow hedges totalling US$1,224 million at 31 March 2012 2011: US$927 million.
The foreign exchange gains or losses on these contracts are recorded in the cash flow hedging reserve until the hedged transactions occur, at which time the respective gains and losses are transferred to inventory, property, plant and equipment, goodwill or to the income statement as appropriate.
The group holds net investment hedges totalling US$5,312 million at 31 March 2012 2011: US$1,944 million.
The foreign exchange gains or losses on these contracts are recorded in the net investment hedging reserve and partially offset the foreign currency translation risk on the groups foreign currency net assets.
130 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Financial risk factors continued ii Interest rate risk As at 31 March 2012 43% 2011: 40% of consolidated gross borrowings were in fixed rates taking into account interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
The groups policy is to borrow directly or synthetically in floating rates, reflecting the fact that floating rates are generally lower than fixed ratesin the medium term.
However, a minimum of 25% of consolidated net borrowings is required to be in fixed rates for a minimum duration of12months and the extent to which group borrowings may be in floating rates is restricted to the lower of 75% of consolidated net borrowings and that amount of net borrowings in floating rates that with a 1% increase in interest rates would increase finance costs by an amount equal to but not more than 1.20% of adjusted EBITDA.
The policy also excludes borrowings arising from recent acquisitions and any inflation-linked debt, where there will be a natural hedge within business operations.
Exposure to movements in interest rates in group borrowings is managed through interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
As at 31March 2012 on a policy adjusted basis, excluding borrowings from recent acquisitions and any inflation-linked debt, 45% 2011: 44% of consolidated net borrowings were in fixed rates.
The impact of a 1% rise in interest rates on borrowings in floating rates would be equivalent to0.44% 2011: 0.67% of adjusted EBITDA.
The cash flow interest rate risk sensitivities on variable debt and interest rate swaps were: Other Australian European Colombian US dollars SA rand dollars Euro currencies peso Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2012 1 Net debt 13,141 192 2,226 1,359 34 1,148 450 18,482 Less: fixed rate debt 12,665 1,367 282 14,314 Variable rate debt 476 192 2,226 8 34 1,148 168 4,168 Adjust for: Financial derivatives 3,692 183 1,083 885 139 5,982 Net variable rate debt exposure 4,168 375 3,309 877 105 1,148 168 10,150 - 100 bps change Potential impact on earnings 42 4 34 9 1 12 2 104 - 100 bps change Potential impact on other comprehensive income 12 12 At 31 March 2011 1 Net debt 4,011 263 18 1,416 23 1,106 598 7,389 Less: fixed rate debt 4,404 236 1,417 168 6,225 Variable rate debt 393 27 18 1 23 1,106 430 1,164 Adjust for: Financial derivatives 1,380 202 705 564 2,851 Net variable rate debt exposure 987 229 18 704 541 1,106 430 4,015 - 100 bps change Potential impact on earnings 10 2 7 5 11 5 40 - 100 bps change Potential impact on other comprehensive income 3 3 1 Excluding net borrowings-related derivative instruments.
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed income instruments Changes in the market interest rates of non-derivative financial instruments with fixed interest rates only affect income if these are measured at their fair value.
As such, all financial instruments with fixed rates of interest that are accounted for at amortised cost are not subject to interest rate risk as defined in IFRS 7.
The group holds derivative contracts with a nominal value of US$6,217 million as at 31 March 2012 2011: US$2,933 million which are designated as fair value hedges.
In the case of these instruments and the underlying fixed rate bonds, changes in the fair values of the hedged item and the hedging instrument attributable to interest rate movements net off almost completely in the income statement in the same period.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments A change of 100 bps in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased decreased other comprehensive income and the income statement by the amounts shown above.
This analysis assumes all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
Theanalysis was performed on the same basis for 2011.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 131 23.
Financial risk factors continued Interest rate profiles of financial liabilities The following table sets out the contractual repricing included within the underlying borrowings excluding net borrowings-related derivatives exposed to either fixed interest rates or floating interest rates and revises this for the repricing effect of interest rate and cross currency swaps.
2012 2011 Total Effect of Total Total Effect of Total borrowings derivatives exposure borrowings derivatives exposure US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Repricing due: Within one year 5,138 5,981 11,119 2,959 2,834 5,793 Between one and two years 1,712 900 812 Between two and five years 6,824 3,874 2,950 3,438 1,459 1,979 In five years or more 5,552 1,207 4,345 2,063 1,375 688 Total interest bearing 19,226 19,226 8,460 8,460 Analysed as: Fixed rate interest 14,314 5,981 8,333 6,225 2,834 3,391 Floating rate interest 4,912 5,981 10,893 2,235 2,834 5,069 Total interest bearing 19,226 19,226 8,460 8,460 iii Price risk Commodity price risk The group is exposed to variability in the price of commodities used in the production or in the packaging of finished products, such as the price of malt, barley, sugar and aluminium.
Commodity price risk is managed within minimum and maximum guard rails principally through multi-year fixed price contracts with suppliers and, where appropriate, derivative contracts.
The group hedges a proportion of commodity supply and price risk for a period of up to five years.
Where derivative contracts are used the group manages exposures principally through exchange-traded futures, forwards and swaps.
At 31 March 2012 the notional value of commodity derivatives amounted to US$36 million 2011: US$21 million.
No sensitivity analysis has been provided on these outstanding contracts as the impact is considered to be immaterial.
Equity securities price risk The group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments held by the group and classified on the balance sheet as available for sale investments.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Financial instruments The group limits its exposure to financial institutions by setting credit limits on a sliding scale based on their credit ratings and generally dealing only with counterparties with a minimum credit rating of BBBby Standard & Poors and Baa3 from Moodys.
For banks with a lower credit rating, or with no international credit rating, a maximum limit of US$4 million is applied, unless specific approval is obtained from either the chief financial officer or the audit committee of the board.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
To reduce credit exposures, the group has ISDA Master Agreements with most of its counterparties for financial derivatives, which permit net settlement of assets and liabilities in certain circumstances.
Trade and other receivables There is no significant concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the group has a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed.
The type of customers range from wholesalers and distributors to smaller retailers.
The group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
Credit risk is managed by limiting the aggregate amount of exposure to any one counterparty.
The group considers its maximum credit risk to be US$3,657 million 2011: US$2,984 million which is the total of the groups financial assets.
c. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The group finances its operations through cash generated by the business and a mixture of short-term and medium-term bank credit facilities, bank loans, corporate bonds and commercial paper with a range of maturity dates.
In this way, the group ensures that it is not overly reliant on any particular liquidity source or that maturities of borrowings sourced in this way are not overly concentrated.
Subsidiaries have access to local bank credit facilities, but are principally funded by the group.
At 31 March 2012 the group had the following core lines of credit that were available for general corporate purposes.
SABMiller plc: US$2,500 million committed syndicated facility, of which US$264 million is due to expire in April 2016 and US$2,236 million is due to expire inApril 2017.
SABMiller Holdings Inc: US$500 million revolving credit facility, which is due to expire in September 2016.
132 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Financial risk factors continued Liquidity risk faced by the group is mitigated by having diverse sources of finance available to it and by maintaining substantial unutilised banking facilities and reserve borrowing capacity, as indicated by the level of undrawn facilities.
As at 31 March 2012 borrowing capacity under committed bank facilities amounted to US$3,810 million 2011: US$3,164 million.
The table below analyses the groups financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on theremaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Between Between Less than 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 1 year years years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2012 Borrowings 1,803 2,904 11,763 8,361 Derivative financial instruments 18 16 11 35 Trade and other payables 3,416 95 7 4 Financial guarantee contracts 6 2 6 4 1 At 31 March 2011 Borrowings 1,689 1,096 4,380 2,003 Derivative financial instruments 124 18 21 2 Trade and other payables 2,927 73 Financial guarantee contracts 5 3 1 As restated see note 29.
The table below analyses the groups derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
Between Between Less than 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 1 year years years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2012 Forward foreign exchange contracts Outflow 399 12 Inflow 401 12 Cross currency swaps Outflow 278 346 1,686 866 Inflow 216 331 1,637 877 At 31 March 2011 Forward foreign exchange contracts Outflow 423 30 Inflow 384 30 Cross currency swaps Outflow 29 33 315 422 Inflow 19 23 326 446 Capital management The capital structure of the group consists of net debt see note 28c and shareholders equity.
The groups policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
Besides the minimum capitalisation rules that may apply to subsidiaries in different countries, the groups only externally imposed capital requirement relates to the groups core lines of credit which include a net debt to EBITDA financial covenant which was complied with throughout the year.
The group monitors its financial capacity and credit ratings by reference to a number of key financial ratios and cash flow metrics including netdebt to adjusted EBITDA and interest cover.
These provide a framework within which the groups capital base is managed including dividend policy.
If the group fails to meet the financial targets required by the ratings agencies, a credit rating downgrade could impact the average interest rate of borrowings of the group and the future availability of credit to the group.
The group is currently rated Baa1 by Moodys Investors Service and BBB by Standard & Poors Ratings Services, both with a stable outlook.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 133 23.
Financial risk factors continued Fair value estimation The following table presents the groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2012 Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial instruments 756 756 Available for sale investments 1 18 12 31 Total assets 1 774 12 787 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial instruments 109 109 Total liabilities 109 109 At 31 March 2011 Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial instruments 346 346 Available for sale investments 1 19 15 35 Total assets 1 365 15 381 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial instruments 135 135 Total liabilities 135 135 The levels of the fair value hierarchy and its application to the groups financial assets and liabilities are described below.
Level 1: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, orregulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the group is the current bid price.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived fromprices : The fair values of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over the counter derivatives or infrequently traded listed investments are determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data: Specific valuation techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value of the remaining financial instruments.
The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments for the years ended 31 March.
Available for sale investments 2012 2011 US$m US$m At 1 April 15 15 Exchange adjustments 1 Additions 1 Disposals 2 Impairments 1 At 31 March 12 15 134 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Derivative financial instruments Current derivative financial instruments 2012 2011 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Embedded derivatives 1 Forward foreign currency contracts on operating items 7 13 3 12 1 Forward foreign currency contracts on borrowings 14 12 1 1 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 13 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 3 12 8 11 Cross currency swaps on borrowings 13 Commodity contracts designated as cash flow hedges 2 4 24 40 16 50 1 Borrowings-related derivative financial instruments amounting to a net asset of US$2 million 2011: net liability of US$13 million.
Non-current derivative financial instruments 2012 2011 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 394 18 269 4 1 Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 4 7 1 Interest rate swaps on borrowings 55 9 1 Forward foreign currency contracts on borrowings 5 4 1 Forward foreign currency contracts on operating items designated as net investment hedges 42 21 1 16 1 Forward foreign currency contracts on borrowings designated as net investment hedges 10 1 Cross currency swaps on borrowings 74 50 1 Cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges 18 1 Cross currency swaps designated as fair value hedges 113 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 31 7 6 56 Commodity contracts designated as cash flow hedges 1 732 69 330 85 1 Borrowings-related derivative financial instruments amounting to a net asset of US$618 million 2011: US$311 million.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments i Fair value hedges The group has entered into several interest rate swaps to pay floating and receive fixed interest which have been designated as fair value hedges to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of its US dollar and euro fixed rate borrowings.
Non-current borrowings are designated as the hedged item as part of the fair value hedge.
The borrowings and the interest rate swaps have the same critical terms.
As at 31 March 2012 the notional amount of the US dollar interest rate swaps was US$3,950 million 2011: US$2,225 million.
The fixed interest rates received vary from 1.85% to 6.625% 2011: 5.5% to 6.625% and the floating interest rates paid vary from LIBOR plus 71.6 bps to LIBOR plus 177.8 bps 2011: LIBOR plus 71.6 bps to LIBOR plus 198.8 bps on the notional amount.
As at 31 March 2012 the notional amount of the euro interest rate swaps was 500 million 2011: 500 million.
The fixed interest rates received are 4.5% 2011: 4.5% and floating interest rates paid vary from EURIBOR plus 177 bps to EURIBOR plus 178 bps on the notional amount 2011:EURIBOR plus 177 bps to EURIBOR plus 178 bps on the notional amount.
Fosters has entered into interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps, the cumulative effect of which is to receive fixed US dollarinterest and pay Australian dollar floating interest, and to convert the profile of the US dollar borrowings into Australian dollars.
Theseswaps have been designated as fair value hedges to hedge the exposure of the Australian operations to changes in the fair value oftheUS dollar borrowings.
As at 31 March 2012 the notional amount of the interest rate swaps was US$600 million 2011: US$nil.
The fixed interest rates received vary from 4.875% to 7.875% and the floating rates paid vary from LIBOR plus 47 bps to LIBOR plus 73 bps on the notional amounts.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 135 24.
Derivative financial instruments continued The notional amount of the cross currency interest rate swaps was US$1,600 million 2011: US$nil.
These were: US$1,000 million received US dollar fixed rate interest varying from 5.125% to 5.875% and paid floating Australian dollar interest with ratesvarying from Australian bank bills plus 268 bps to Australian bank bills plus 410 bps: and US$600 million received floating US dollar interest with rates varying from LIBOR plus 47 bps to LIBOR plus 71 bps and paid floating Australian dollar interest with rates varying from Australian bank bills plus 87 bps to Australian bank bills plus 117 bps.
As at 31 March 2012 the carrying value of the hedged borrowings was US$6,827 million 2011: US$3,212 million.
ii Cash flow hedges The group has entered into interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges to manage the interest rate on borrowings.
The notional amount of these interest rate swaps was US$515 million equivalent 2011: US$99 million.
The fair value of these interest rate swaps was a liability of US$4 million 2011: US$7 million.
The fixed interest rate paid varies from 4.27% to 4.38% 2011: 4.7% and the floating rates received are Australian bank bills plus zero bps 2011: EURIBOR plus zero bps.
As at 31 March 2012 the carrying value of the hedged borrowings was US$535 million 2011: US$99 million.
The group has entered into forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges to manage short-term foreign currency exposures toexpected net operating costs including future trade imports and exports.
As at 31 March 2012 the notional amounts of these contracts were317 million, US$557 million, GBP128 million and Czech koruna CZK 12 million 2011: 182 million, US$460 million, GBP120 million andCZK299 million.
The group has entered into commodity contracts designated as cash flow hedges to manage the future price of commodities.
As at 31 March 2012 the notional amount of forward contracts for the purchase price of corn was US$3 million 2011: US$2 million and the notional amount offorward contracts for the purchase price of aluminium was US$33 million 2011: US$19 million.
The following table indicates the period in which the cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur and impact the income statement.
Carrying Expected Less than Between 1 Between 2 More than amount cash flows 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2012 Interest rate swaps: Liabilities 4 4 1 2 1 Forward foreign currency contracts: Assets 3 4 4 Liabilities 12 13 13 Commodity contracts: Liabilities 2 2 2 15 15 12 2 1 At 31 March 2011 Interest rate swaps: Liabilities 7 7 2 2 3 Forward foreign currency contracts: Assets 8 9 9 Liabilities 11 12 12 Commodity contracts: Assets 4 4 4 Liabilities 1 1 1 7 7 1 3 3 136 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Derivative financial instruments continued iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The group has entered into several forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps which it has designated as hedges of netinvestments in its foreign subsidiaries in South Africa, Australia, the Czech Republic, Poland, Colombia and Peru to hedge the groups exposure toforeign exchange risk on these investments.
Net losses relating to forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps ofUS$1million 2011:US$137 million have been recognised in other comprehensive income.
Analysis of notional amounts on financial instruments designated as net investment hedges: 2012 2011 m m Forward foreign currency contracts: SA rand ZAR 2,374 1,459 Czech koruna CZK 6,825 5,500 Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 631 328 Australian dollars AUD 1,000 Polish zloty PLN 630 Colombian pesos COP 490,476 Cross currency swaps: SA rand ZAR 1,404 2,799 Polish zloty PLN 433 649 Czech koruna CZK 2,258 Standalone derivative financial instruments i Forward foreign currency contracts The group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to manage short-term foreign currency exposures to expected future trade imports and exports.
These derivatives are fair valued based on discounted future cash flows with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
As at 31 March 2012 the notional amounts of these contracts were 91 million, US$150 million and ZAR37 million 2011: 83 million and US$136 million.
The group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to manage foreign currency exposures on intercompany loan balances.
As at 31 March 2012 the notional amounts of these contracts were 60 million, GBP34 million, Romanian lei RON 196 million, Polish zloty PLN 189 million, Swissfranc CHF 15 million, South African rand ZAR 632 million, Czech koruna CZK 1,425 million and Australian dollars AUD 209 million 2011: 21 million, GBP25 million, Russian rouble RUB 2,530 million, RON319 million, PLN230 million, CHF15 million, ZAR66 million and CZK2,500 million.
ii Cross currency swaps The group has entered into cross currency swaps to manage foreign currency exposures on intercompany loan balances.
These derivatives arefair valued based on discounted future cash flows with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
As at 31 March 2012 the notional amounts of these contracts were 317 million 2011: 317 million, RUB1,400 million and PLN443 million.
Fair value gain loss on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 2012 2011 US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps 8 Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 104 12 Forward foreign currency contracts 76 13 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as fair value hedges 8 3 Cross currency swaps 27 39 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 4 4 Other fair value gains 30 233 41 Other financial instruments: Non-current borrowings designated as the hedged item in a fair value hedge 104 14 Total fair value gain loss on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 129 55 Fair value gains or losses on borrowings, derivative financial instruments held to hedge interest rate risk on borrowings and derivative financial instruments acquired to hedge the risks of the Fosters acquisition are recognised as part of net finance costs.
Fair value gains or losses on all other derivative financial instruments are recognised in operating profit.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 137 24.
Derivative financial instruments continued Reconciliation of total financial instruments The table below reconciles the groups accounting categorisation of financial assets and liabilities based on initial recognition to the classes ofassets and liabilities as shown on the face of the balance sheet.
Financial Fair value liabilities Not through held at categorised income Loans and Available amortised as a financial Nonstatement receivables for sale cost instrument Total current Current US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2012 Assets Available for sale investments 31 31 30 1 Derivative financial instruments 756 756 732 24 Trade and other receivables 2,025 267 2,292 136 2,156 Loan participation deposit 100 100 100 Cash and cash equivalents 745 745 745 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 109 109 69 40 Borrowings 19,226 19,226 18,164 1,062 Trade and other payables 3,521 645 4,166 112 4,054 1 At 31 March 2011 Assets Available for sale investments 35 35 35 Derivative financial instruments 346 346 330 16 Trade and other receivables 1,536 291 1,827 140 1,687 Cash and cash equivalents 1,067 1,067 1,067 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 135 135 85 50 Borrowings 8,460 8,460 7,115 1,345 Trade and other payables 3,011 574 3,585 98 3,487 1 As restated see note 29.
138 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Provisions Demerged Postentities and retirement  litigation benefits related Restructuring related contracts Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2010 78 290 308 32 52 6 42 808 Exchange adjustments 4 10 7 3 2 1 27 Acquisitions through business combinations 6 1 4 11 Charged credited to the income statement Additional provision in year 12 28 21 49 15 1 12 138 Unused amounts reversed 6 24 3 33 Utilised in the year 5 35 10 14 20 4 8 96 Actuarial losses recorded in other comprehensive income 28 28 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale 1 6 3 10 1 At 31 March 2011 94 310 302 70 46 7 44 873 Exchange adjustments 3 1 1 2 1 7 4 9 Acquisitions through business combinations 13 1 79 149 58 188 37 525 Disposals 1 10 1 9 21 Charged credited to the income statement Additional provision in year 4 28 3 23 17 2 37 114 Unused amounts reversed 10 54 1 1 66 Utilised in the year 7 28 26 31 14 13 20 139 Actuarial losses recorded in other comprehensive income 9 9 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale see note 19 1 1 Transfer between categories 3 5 4 4 8 At 31 March 2012 103 309 308 206 101 191 85 1,303 Analysed as: Current 65 6 265 195 61 63 62 717 Noncurrent 38 303 43 11 40 128 23 586 103 309 308 206 101 191 85 1,303 1 As restated see note 29.
Demerged entities and litigation During the year ended 31 March 1998 the group recognised a provision of US$73 million for the disposal of certain demerged entities inrelation to equity injections which were not regarded as recoverable, as well as potential liabilities arising on warranties and the sale agreements.
During the year ended 31 March 2012 US$2 million 2011: US$1 million of this provision was utilised in regard to costs associated with SAB Ltds previously disposed of remaining retail interests.
The residual balance of US$13 million relates mainly to the disposal of OK Bazaars 1929 Ltd to Shoprite Holdings Ltd Shoprite.
As disclosed in previous annual reports, a number of claims were made by Shoprite in relation to the valuation of the net assets of OK Bazaars at the time of the sale and for alleged breaches by SAB Ltd of warranties contained in the sale agreements.
These claims are being contested by SAB Ltd.
There are US$90 million 2011: US$76 million of provisions in respect of outstanding litigation within various operations, based on managements expectation that the outcomes of these disputes are expected to be resolved within the forthcoming five years.
While provision for all claims has already been made, the actual outcome of the disputes and the timing of the resolution cannot be estimated by the directors at this time.
The further information ordinarily required by IAS 37, Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets has not been disclosed on the grounds that it can be expected to seriously prejudice the outcome of the disputes.
Post-retirement benefits The provision for post-retirement benefits represents the provision for medical benefits for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, for post-retirement medical and life insurance benefits for eligible employees and their dependants in North America and Europe, medical and other benefits in Latin America, and pension provisions for employees in North America, Latin America, Europe, Africa and Asia Pacific.
The principal assumptions on which these provisions are based are disclosed in note 32.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 139 25.
Provisions continued Taxation-related The group has recognised various provisions in relation to taxation exposures it believes may arise.
The provisions principally relate to non-corporate taxation and interest and penalties on corporate taxation in respect of a number of group companies.
Any settlement in respect of these amounts will occur as and when the assessments are finalised with the respective tax authorities.
Restructuring This includes the remaining provision for restructuring costs related to Europe which management expects to be utilised within five years, and provisions for costs related to pre-existing demerger costs and demerger warranties in Fosters in Australia which are expected to be utilised within one year.
Payroll-related This principally relates to employee long service awards of US$19 million 2011: US$20 million within South Africa and US$15 million US$22million within Latin America, which are expected to be utilised on an ongoing basis when service awards fall due.
Payroll-related provisions also include US$46 million 2011: US$nil within Asia Pacific relating to employee entitlement provisions.
Onerous contracts This includes provisions for unfavourable supply contracts for malt, glass, aluminium cans and concentrated fruit juice for non-alcoholic beverages, as well as provisions for surplus property leases in Australia, which management expect to be utilised within eight years.
Other provisions Included within other provisions are environmental provisions, insurance provisions and other provisions.
These are primarily expected to beutilised within five years.
Share capital 2012 2011 US$m US$m Group and company Called up, allotted and fully paid share capital 1,664,323,483 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 2011: 1,659,040,014 166 166 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each 2011: 50,000 166 166 Ordinary shares of Deferred Nominal 10 US cents shares of value each 1 each US$m At 1 April 2010 1,654,749,852 50,000 165 Issue of shares share incentive plans 4,290,162 1 At 31 March 2011 1,659,040,014 50,000 166 Issue of shares share incentive plans 5,283,469 At 31 March 2012 1,664,323,483 50,000 166 Changes to authorised share capital With effect from 1 October 2009 the company adopted new articles of association which removed any previous limit on the authorised share capital.
Directors are still limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employee shares plans.
Changes to issued share capital During the year the company issued 5,283,469 2011: 4,290,162 new ordinary shares of 10 US cents to satisfy the exercise of options granted under the various share incentive plans, for consideration of US$96 million 2011: US$73 million.
140 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Share capital continued Rights and restrictions relating to share capital Convertible participating shares Altria is entitled to require the company to convert its ordinary shares into convertible participating shares so as to ensure that Altrias voting shareholding does not exceed 24.99% of the total voting shareholding.
If such an event occurs, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares in all respects and no action shall betaken by the company in relation to ordinary shares unless the same action is taken in respect of the convertible participating shares.
Ondistribution of the profits whether by cash dividend, dividend in specie, scrip dividend, capitalisation issue or otherwise, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares.
On a return of capital whether winding-up or otherwise, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares.
Altria is entitled to vote its convertible participating shares at general meetings of the company on a poll on the basis of one-tenth of a vote forevery convertible participating share on all resolutions other than a resolution: i proposed by any person other than Altria, to wind-up the company: ii proposed by any person other than Altria, to appoint an administrator or to approve any arrangement with the companys creditors: iii proposed by the board, to sell all or substantially all of the undertaking of the company: or iv proposed by any person other than Altria, to alter any of the class rights attaching to the convertible participating shares or to approve thecreation of any new class of shares, in which case Altria shall be entitled on a poll to vote on the resolution on the basis of one vote for eachconvertible participating share, but, for the purposes of any resolution other than a resolution mentioned in iv above, the convertible participating shares shall be treated as being of the same class as the ordinary shares and no separate meeting or resolution of the holders ofthe convertible participating shares shall be required to be convened or passed.
Upon a transfer of convertible participating shares by Altria other than to an affiliate, such convertible participating shares shall convert into ordinary shares.
Altria is entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares if: i a third party has made a takeover offer for the company and if such offer becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects it would result in the voting shareholding of the third party being more than 30% of the total voting shareholding: and ii Altria has communicated to the company in writing its intention not itself to make an offer competing with such third party offer, provided that the conversion date shall be no earlier than the date on which the third partys offer becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects.
Altria is entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares if the voting shareholding of a third party should be more than 24.99%, provided that: i the number of ordinary shares held by Altria following such conversion shall be limited to one ordinary share more than the number of ordinary shares held by the third party: and ii such conversion shall at no time result in Altrias voting shareholding being equal to or greater than the voting shareholding which would require Altria to make a mandatory offer in terms of rule 9 of the City Code.
If Altria wishes to acquire additional ordinary shares other than pursuant to a pre-emptive issue of new ordinary shares or with the prior approval of the board, Altria shall first convert into ordinary shares the lesser of: i such number of convertible participating shares as would result in Altrias voting shareholding being such percentage as would, in the eventof Altria subsequently acquiring one additional ordinary share, require Altria to make a mandatory offer in terms of rule 9 of the CityCode: and ii all of its remaining convertible participating shares.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 141 26.
Share capital continued The company must use its best endeavours to procure that the ordinary shares arising on conversion of the convertible participating shares areadmitted to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities, admitted to listing and trading onthe JSE Ltd, and admitted to listing and trading on any other stock exchange upon which the ordinary shares are from time to time listed and traded, but no admission to listing or trading need be sought for the convertible participating shares whilst they remain convertible participating shares.
Deferred shares The deferred shares do not carry any voting rights and do not entitle their holders to receive any dividends or other distributions.
In the event ofa winding up deferred shareholders would receive no more than the nominal value.
Deferred shares represent the only non-equity share capital of the group.
Share-based payments The group operates various share incentive plans.
The share incentives outstanding are summarised as follows.
2012 2011 Scheme Number Number GBP share options 16,622,334 15,088,057 ZAR share options 13,024,503 13,686,079 GBP stock appreciation rights SARs 2,820,144 3,575,370 GBP performance share awards 6,880,114 7,364,124 GBP value share awards 6,877,784 3,168,200 GBP cash settled awards 335,940 1 Total share incentives outstanding 46,560,819 42,881,830 1 Total share incentives outstanding exclude shares relating to the BBBEE scheme.
Further details relating to all of the share incentive schemes can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 68 to 83.
The exercise prices of incentives outstanding at 31 March 2012 ranged from 0 to 25.48 and ZAR53.30 to ZAR290.23 2011: 0 to 22.44 and ZAR43.09 to ZAR225.08.
The movement in share awards outstanding is summarised in the following tables.
GBP share options GBP share options include share options granted under the Executive Share Option Plan 2008, the Approved Executive Share Option Plan 2008, the Executive Share Option No.
2 Scheme, the Approved Executive Share Option Scheme and the International Employee Share Scheme.
No further grants can be made under the now closed Executive Share Option No.
2 Scheme, the Approved Executive Share Option Scheme, or the International Employee Share Scheme: although outstanding grants may still be exercised until they reach their expiry date.
Weighted Weighted average average fair exercise value at Number price grant date of options GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2010 13,515,685 11.05 Granted 4,178,150 19.58 5.87 Lapsed 521,316 12.91 Exercised 2,084,462 10.27 Outstanding at 31 March 2011 15,088,057 13.46 Granted 4,417,346 22.51 6.47 Lapsed 679,700 18.88 Exercised 2,203,369 11.44 Outstanding at 31 March 2012 16,622,334 15.91 142 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Share capital continued ZAR share options Share options designated in ZAR include share options granted under the South African Executive Share Option Plan 2008 and the MirrorExecutive Share Purchase Scheme South Africa.
No further grants can be made under the Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme SouthAfrica although outstanding grants may still be exercised until they reach their expiry date.
Weighted Weighted average average fair exercise value at Number price grant date of options ZAR ZAR Outstanding at 1 April 2010 13,447,779 151.23 Granted 2,943,850 222.55 88.63 Lapsed 499,850 176.93 Exercised 2,205,700 126.34 Outstanding at 31 March 2011 13,686,079 169.64 Granted 2,943,373 283.07 105.43 Lapsed 524,849 218.17 Exercised 3,080,100 138.30 Outstanding at 31 March 2012 13,024,503 200.73 GBP SARs GBP SARs include stock appreciation rights granted under the Stock Appreciation Rights Plan 2008 and the International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme.
No further grants can be made under the now closed International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme, although outstanding grants may still be exercised until they reach their expiry date.
Weighted Weighted average average fair exercise value at Number price grant date of SARs GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2010 4,297,049 9.54 Granted 49,900 19.51 5.85 Lapsed 24,036 10.81 Exercised 747,543 9.27 Outstanding at 31 March 2011 3,575,370 9.72 Granted 64,900 22.50 6.47 Lapsed 26,583 11.44 Exercised 793,543 8.85 Outstanding at 31 March 2012 2,820,144 10.25 GBP performance share awards GBP performance share awards include awards made under the Executive Share Award Plan 2008, the Performance Share Award Scheme and the International Performance Share Award Sub-Scheme.
No further awards can be made under the Performance Share Award Scheme and the International Performance Share Award Sub-Scheme, although outstanding awards remain and will vest, subject to the achievement oftheir respective performance conditions on their vesting date.
Weighted Weighted average average fair exercise value at Number price grant date of awards GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2010 6,915,855 Granted 2,012,800 18.08 Lapsed 734,088 Released to participants 830,443 Outstanding at 31 March 2011 7,364,124 Granted 2,208,640 20.46 Lapsed 278,760 Released to participants 2,413,890 Outstanding at 31 March 2012 6,880,114 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 143 26.
Share capital continued GBP value share awards The 4,034,340 2011: 3,317,000 value share awards granted represent the theoretical maximum number of awards that could possibly vest inthe future, although in practice it is extremely unlikely that this number of awards would be released.
Weighted Number of Weighted average fair value shares Theoretical average value at per 10 million of maximum exercise price grant date additional value shares at cap GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2010 Granted 1,070 3,317,000 7.61 Lapsed 48 148,800 Outstanding at 31 March 2011 1,022 3,168,200 Granted 1,205 4,034,340 7.27 Lapsed 97 324,756 Outstanding at 31 March 2012 2,130 6,877,784 GBP cash settled awards GBP share incentives included under the Associated Companies Cash Award Plan 2011.
Weighted Weighted average average fair exercise value at Number price grant date of awards GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2011 Granted 335,940 20.35 Outstanding at 31 March 2012 335,940 Outstanding share incentives The following table summarises information about share incentives outstanding at 31 March.
Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Number price Number price 2012 2012 2011 2011 GBP share options 5,103,986 10.46 4,335,349 9.75 ZAR share options 5,004,479 140.97 4,914,079 128.71 GBP SARs 2,705,344 9.8 3,525,470 9.59 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 145 26.
Share capital continued Share incentives exercised or vested The weighted average market price of the groups shares at the date of exercise or vesting for share incentives exercised or vested during the year were: Weighted Weighted average market average market Number price Number price 2012 2012 2011 2011 Share incentives designated in GBP 5,410,802 23.01 3,662,448 20.15 Share incentives designated in ZAR 3,080,100 278.19 2,205,700 225.73 Total share incentives exercised or vested during the year 8,490,902 5,868,148 Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE scheme On 9 June 2010 the initial allocation of participation rights was made in relation to the BBBEE scheme in South Africa.
A total of 46.2 million new shares in The South African Breweries Limited SAB, representing 8.45% of SABs enlarged issued share capital, were issued.
The shares in SAB will be exchanged at the end of the estimated ten-year scheme term for shares in SABMiller plc based on a repurchase formula linked, inter alia, to the operating performance of SAB.
No performance conditions and exercise prices are attached to these shares, although the employee component has a four-year vesting period.
The weighted average fair value of each SAB share at the grant date was ZAR40.
Weighted average fair value assumptions The fair value of services received in return for share awards granted is measured by reference to the fair value of share awards granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a binomial model approach except for the awards under Performance Share Award schemes, the Executive Share Award Plan 2008 including value share awards and the BBBEE scheme which have been valued using Monte Carlo simulations, and awards under the cash settled scheme which have been valued based on an analytic approach.
The Monte Carlo simulation methodology is necessary for valuing share-based payments with TSR performance hurdles.
This is achieved byprojecting SABMiller plcs share price forwards, together with those of companies in the same comparator group, over the vesting period and or life of the awards after considering their respective volatilities.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in these option pricing models during the year.
2012 2011 1 Share price South African share option scheme ZAR 280.49 226.66 BBBEE scheme SAB share price ZAR 162.68 All other schemes 22.33 19.49 1 Exercise price South African share option scheme ZAR 283.07 222.55 All other schemes 9.35 8.80 2 Expected volatility BBBEE scheme 27.1% All other schemes 23.1% 29.2% Dividend yield BBBEE scheme 4.9% All other schemes 2.3% 2.5% Annual forfeiture rate South African share option scheme 5.0% 5.0% All other schemes 3.0% 3.0% Riskfree interest rate South African share option scheme 7.9% 8.7% BBBEE scheme 8.3% All other schemes 2.3% 2.9% 1 The calculation is based on the weighted fair value of issues made during the year.
2 Expected volatility is calculated by assessing the historical share price data in the United Kingdom and South Africa since May 2002.
146 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Retained earnings and other reserves a.
Retained earnings Treasury and Retained EBT shares earnings Total US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2010 673 8,198 7,525 Profit for the year 2,408 2,408 Other comprehensive income 63 63 Actuarial losses taken to other comprehensive income 28 28 Share of associates and joint ventures losses recognised in other comprehensive income 71 71 Deferred tax credit on items taken to other comprehensive income 36 36 Dividends paid 1,115 1,115 Buyout of non-controlling interests 10 10 Utilisation of EBT shares 16 16 Credit entry relating to share-based payments 246 246 At 31 March 2011 657 9,648 8,991 Profit for the year 4,221 4,221 Other comprehensive income 119 119 Actuarial losses taken to other comprehensive income 9 9 Share of associates and joint ventures losses recognised in other comprehensive income 181 181 Deferred tax credit on items taken to other comprehensive income 71 71 Dividends paid 1,324 1,324 Dilution of non-controlling interests as a result of business combinations 5 5 Payment for purchase of own shares for share trusts 52 52 Buyout of non-controlling interests 7 7 Utilisation of EBT shares 48 48 Credit entry relating to share-based payments 158 158 At 31 March 2012 661 12,524 11,863 The groups retained earnings includes amounts of US$709 million 2011: US$693 million, the distribution of which is limited by statutory or other restrictions.
Treasury and EBT shares reserve On 26 February 2009, 77,368,338 SABMiller plc non-voting convertible shares were converted into ordinary shares and then acquired by the company to be held as treasury shares.
While the purchase price for each share was 10.54, the whole amount of the consideration was paid between group companies.
On 15 February 2010, 5,300,000 of these treasury shares were transferred to the EBT for nil consideration.
These shares will be used to satisfy awards outstanding under the various share incentive plans.
There are two employee benefit trusts currently in operation, being the SABMiller Employee Benefit Trust the EBT and the SABMiller Associated Companies Employees Benefit Trust the AC-EBT.
The EBT holds shares in SABMiller plc for the purposes of the various executive share incentive plans, further details of which are disclosed in the directors remuneration report.
At 31 March 2012 the EBT held 5,605,746 shares 2011:7,437,406 shares which cost US$98 million 2011: US$94 million and had a market value of US$225 million 2011: US$263 million.
These shares have been treated as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds.
The EBT used funds provided by SABMiller plc to purchase such of the shares as were purchased in the market.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
The AC-EBT holds shares in SABMiller plc for the purposes of providing share incentives for employees of companies in which SABMiller has asignificant economic and strategic interest but over which it does not have management control.
Further details on the AC-EBT are disclosed in the directors remuneration report.
At 31 March 2012 the AC-EBT held 335,940 shares which cost US$11 million and had a market value of US$13 million.
The AC-EBT used funds provided by Gardwell Ltd, awholly owned indirect subsidiary of SABMiller plc, to purchase the shares.
Shares currently held in each EBT rank pari passu with all other ordinary shares, however, in both cases the trustees have elected to waive dividends and decline from voting shares, except in circumstances where they may be holding shares beneficially owned by a participant.
There were no beneficially owned shares in either EBT as at 31 March 2012.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 147 27.
Retained earnings and other reserves continued b.
Other reserves The analysis of other reserves is as follows.
Foreign Net currency Cash flow investment Available translation hedging hedging for sale reserve reserve reserve reserve Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2010 1,533 11 203 3 1,322 Currency translation differences: Subsidiaries 501 501 Associates and joint ventures 149 149 Net investment hedges 137 137 Cash flow hedges 39 39 Deferred tax on items taken to other comprehensive income 14 14 Share of associates and joint ventures gains recognised in other comprehensiveincome 21 21 At 31 March 2011 2,183 35 340 3 1,881 Currency translation differences: Subsidiaries 243 243 Associates and joint ventures 106 106 Net investment hedges 1 1 Cash flow hedges 6 6 Deferred tax on items taken to other comprehensive income 30 30 Share of associates and joint ventures losses recognised in other comprehensiveincome 75 75 At 31 March 2012 2,320 4 341 3 1,978 Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all translation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets together with differences between income statements translated at average and closing rates.
Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operations 2012 2011 US$m US$m Profit for the year 4,477 2,557 Taxation 1,126 1,069 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,152 1,024 Interest receivable and similar income 531 358 Interest payable and similar charges 1,093 883 Operating profit 5,013 3,127 Depreciation: Property, plant and equipment 672 665 Containers 237 239 Container breakages, shrinkages and write-offs 34 24 Net profit on disposal of businesses 1,258 Gain on remeasurement of existing interest in joint venture on acquisition 66 Profit on disposal of investment in associate 103 159 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 15 5 Amortisation of intangible assets 273 220 Impairment of intangible assets 14 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 31 Impairment of working capital balances 16 82 Amortisation of advances to customers 24 28 Unrealised net gain loss from fair value hedges 20 1 Dividends received from other investments 1 1 Charge with respect to share options 132 99 Charge with respect to Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme 29 147 Other non-cash movements 12 10 Net cash generated from operations before working capital movements EBITDA 4,979 4,502 Increase decrease in inventories 45 26 Increase in receivables 25 147 Increase in payables 374 161 Decrease increase in provisions 46 18 Increase in post-retirement benefit provisions 8 Net cash generated from operations 5,237 4,568 148 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28a.
Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operations continued Profit for the year and cash generated from operations before working capital movements includes cash flows relating to exceptional items ofUS$308 million 2011: US$293 million, comprising US$228 million 2011: US$283 million in respect of business capability programme costs, US$72 million 2011: US$nil in respect of transaction-related costs, US$50 million 2011: US$8 million in respect of integration and restructuring costs, US$nil 2011: US$2 million in respect of Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme costs, partially offset byUS$42 million 2011: US$nil in respect of a litigation-related credit.
The following table provides a reconciliation of EBITDA to adjusted EBITDA.
2012 2011 US$m US$m EBITDA 4,979 4,502 Cash exceptional items 308 293 Dividends received from MillerCoors 896 822 Adjusted EBITDA 6,183 5,617 28b.
Reconciliation of net cash from operating activities to free cash flow 2012 2011 US$m US$m Net cash generated from operating activities 3,937 3,043 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 1,473 1,189 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 116 73 Purchase of intangible assets 166 126 Investments in joint ventures 288 186 Investments in associates 4 Repayment of investments by associates 14 68 Dividends received from joint ventures 896 822 Dividends received from associates 120 88 Dividends received from other investments 1 1 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 109 102 Free cash flow 3,048 2,488 28c.
Analysis of net debt Cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet are reconciled to cash and cash equivalents on the cash flow statement as follows.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents balance sheet 745 1,067 Cash and cash equivalents of disposal group classified as held for sale 4 745 1,071 Overdrafts 138 258 Overdrafts of disposal group classified as held for sale 1 Cash and cash equivalents cash flow statement 606 813 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 149 28c.
Analysis of net debt continued Net debt is analysed as follows.
Cash and cash equivalents Derivative Total excluding financial Finance gross Net overdrafts Overdrafts Borrowings instruments leases borrowings debt US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2010 779 190 9,212 237 12 9,177 8,398 Exchange adjustments 8 17 174 3 160 152 Cash flow 283 72 1,159 84 5 1,176 1,459 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 13 1 14 13 Other movements 34 20 1 13 13 At 31 March 2011 1,071 258 8,193 298 9 8,162 7,091 Exchange adjustments 10 49 38 9 78 68 Cash flow 246 157 8,861 43 5 8,742 8,988 Acquisitions through business combinations 12 1,844 259 2 1,587 1,575 Disposals 102 11 98 109 7 Other movements 229 97 15 147 147 At 31 March 2012 745 139 19,067 620 21 18,607 17,862 The groups net debt is denominated in the following currencies.
Major non-cash transactions 2012 Major non-cash transactions in the year included the following.
The disposal of the groups Angolan operations, Coca-Cola Bottling Luanda SARL, Coca-Cola Bottling Sul fide Angola SARL, Empresa fide Cervejas NGola Norte SA, and its interest in Empresa fide Cervejas NGola SARL, in Africa in exchange for a 27.5% interest in BIH Angola.
The contribution of the groups Russian beer business, SABMiller RUS LLC, and Ukrainian beer business, PJSC Miller Brands Ukraine, to Anadolu Efes in exchange for a 24% economic interest in the enlarged Anadolu Efes group.
The remeasurement of the groups existing 50% interest in the Pacific Beverages joint venture to fair value on the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest.
2011 Major non-cash transactions in the year included the following.
IFRS 2 share-based payment charges in relation to the retailer and employee components of the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE scheme in South Africa.
The all-share merger of Tsogo Sun with GRR, a Johannesburg Stock Exchange listed business, on 24 February 2011.
The transaction was effected through the acquisition by GRR of Tsogo Sun, and the group exchanged its entire 49% shareholding in Tsogo Sun for a 39.68% shareholding in the listed enlarged entity.
150 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Restatement of the balance sheet at 31 March 2011 The initial accounting under IFRS 3, Business Combinations, for the Cervecera Argentina SA Isenbeck CASA Isenbeck and Crown Beverages Ltd previously Crown Foods Ltd acquisitions had not been completed as at 31 March 2011.
During the year ended 31 March 2012 adjustments to provisional fair values in respect of these acquisitions were made which resulted in goodwill increasing by US$2 million to US$11,954 million, intangible assets increasing by US$3 million to US$4,364 million, property, plant and equipment increasing by US$1 million to US$9,331 million, current trade and other payables increasing by US$3 million to US$3,487 million, current provisions increasing by US$2million to US$412 million and non-current provisions increasing by US$1 million to US$461 million.
As a result comparative information forthe year ended 31 March 2011 has been presented in the consolidated financial statements as if the adjustments to provisional fair values had been made from the respective transaction dates.
The impact on the prior year income statement has been reviewed and no adjustments to the income statement are required as a result of the adjustments to provisional fair values.
Acquisitions and disposals The following business combinations took effect during the year.
Australia On 16 December 2011 the group acquired a 100% interest in Fosters in Australia for cash consideration of US$10,598 million.
On 13 January 2012 the group acquired the remaining 50% interest which it did not already own in Pacific Beverages from Coca-Cola Amatil Limited CCA for cash consideration of US$343 million.
The acquisition took the groups investment in Pacific Beverages to 100% and the acquisition has been treated as a business combination following the change in control.
Other On 1 January 2012 the group acquired a 65% interest effective 33% interest in International Breweries plc in Nigeria in exchange for US$20million cash consideration and a dilution in the groups effective interests in its existing Nigerian businesses.
All business combinations All business combinations have been accounted for using the acquisition method.
All assets were recognised at their respective fair values.
Theresidual over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
The following table represents the assets and liabilities acquired in respect of all business combinations entered into during the year ended 31 March 2012.
Provisional fair values Australia Other Total US$m US$m US$m Intangible assets 5,369 2 5,371 Property, plant and equipment 860 63 923 Investment in associates 65 65 Inventories 222 10 232 Trade and other receivables 449 25 474 Current tax assets 342 342 Deferred tax assets 2 2 Cash and cash equivalents 10 2 12 Derivative financial assets 259 259 Finance leases 2 2 Trade and other payables 500 71 571 Borrowings 1,842 2 1,844 Current tax liabilities 80 80 Deferred tax liabilities 1,462 1,462 Provisions 525 525 Net assets acquired 3,165 31 3,196 Non-controlling interests 12 53 65 Provisional goodwill 7,961 88 8,049 Consideration 11,114 66 11,180 Goodwill represents, amongst other things, tangible and other assets yet to be recognised separately from goodwill as the fair value valuations are still in progress, potential synergies and the value of the assembled workforce.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The fair value of trade and other receivables was US$474 million and included trade receivables with a fair value of US$322 million.
The gross contractual amount for trade receivables due was US$327 million, of which US$5 million is expected to be uncollectible.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 151 30.
Acquisitions and disposals continued Acquisition-related costs of US$109 million are included in operating expenses in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31March 2012.
Australia Other Total US$m US$m US$m Consideration satisfied by: Cash consideration 10,931 20 10,951 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 10 2 12 Fair value of existing interest in Pacific Beverages 150 150 Non-cash consideration via acquisition of intercompany balance 23 9 32 Fair value of existing interest in International Breweries plc in Nigeria via 20% holding in Castel 30 30 Dilution in the groups effective interests in existing Nigerian businesses 5 5 11,114 66 11,180 From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2012 the following amounts have been included in the groups income and cash flow statements for the year.
Australia Other Total US$m US$m US$m Income statement Revenue 1,058 19 1,077 Operating profit 125 3 128 Profit before tax 105 2 107 Cash flow statement Cash generated from utilised in operations 266 5 261 Net interest paid 23 23 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 15 4 19 If the date of the acquisitions made during the year had been 1 April 2011, then the groups revenue, operating profit and profit before tax for the year ended 31 March 2012 would have been as follows.
US$m Income statement Revenue 24,430 Operating profit 5,389 Profit before tax 5,695 In preparing the pro forma results, revenue and costs have been included as if the businesses were acquired on 1 April 2011 and intercompany transactions had been eliminated.
This information is not necessarily indicative of the results of the combined group that would have occurred had the purchases actually been made at the beginning of the period presented, or indicative of the future results of the combined group.
Non-controlling interests The following non-controlling interests were acquired for cash consideration of US$27 million, with US$7 million taken to shareholders equity.
Effective % holding after acquisition of noncontrolling Form of Company % acquired interest consideration Country Tanzania Breweries Ltd 4.7 36% Cash Tanzania Nile Breweries Ltd 2.7 62% Cash Uganda Disposals During the year the group completed the disposal of its Angolan operations, Coca-Cola Bottling Luanda SARL, Coca-Cola Bottling Sul fide Angola SARL, Empresa fide Cervejas NGola Norte SA, and its interest in Empresa fide Cervejas NGola SARL, in Africa in exchange for a 27.5% interest in BIH Angola, which generated a profit on disposal of US$67 million.
It also completed the disposal of its Russian business, SABMiller RUS LLC, and its Ukrainian business, PJSC Miller Brands Ukraine, in exchange for a 24% interest in Anadolu Efes, which generated a profit ondisposal of US$1,195 million, and which included US$284 million arising as a result of measuring to fair value the groups retained 24% interest inits Russian and Ukrainian businesses.
The group also completed the sale of its Italian distribution business in the year, which generated a loss on disposal of US$14million.
152 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Acquisitions and disposals continued Non-controlling interests The following non-controlling interests were diluted for non-cash consideration of US$5 million, with US$5 million taken to shareholders equity.
Effective % holding after disposal of noncontrolling Form of Company % disposed interest consideration Country Pabod Breweries Ltd 21.6 38% Asset exchange Nigeria Voltic Nigeria Ltd 30.0 50% Asset exchange Nigeria The following non-controlling interests were disposed via business disposals, with no impact on equity.
Effective % holding after disposal of noncontrolling Form of Company % disposed interest consideration Country Coca-Cola Bottling Luanda SARL 55.0 0% Asset exchange Angola Coca-Cola Bottling Sul fide Angola SARL 40.0 0% Asset exchange Angola Empresa fide Cervejas NGola Norte SA 49.9 0% Asset exchange Angola 31.
Operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable leases at 31 March 2012 are as follows.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Land and buildings Within one year 65 50 Later than one year and less than five years 171 106 After five years 42 26 278 182 Plant, vehicles and systems Within one year 55 50 Later than one year and less than five years 126 111 After five years 87 63 268 224 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 153 31.
Commitments, contingencies and guarantees continued b.
Other commitments 2012 2011 US$m US$m Capital commitments not provided in the financial information Contracts placed for future expenditure for property, plant and equipment 277 269 Contracts placed for future expenditure for intangible assets 1 1 Share of capital commitments of joint ventures 44 50 Other commitments not provided in the financial information Contracts placed for future expenditure 3,164 1,925 Share of joint ventures other commitments 512 449 Contracts placed for future expenditure in 2012 primarily relate to minimum purchase commitments for raw materials and packaging materials, which are principally due between 2012 and 2019.
Additionally, as part of the business capability programme the group has entered intocontracts for the provision of IT, communications and consultancy services and in relation to which the group had commitments of US$193million at 31 March 2012 2011: US$193 million.
The groups share of joint ventures other commitments primarily relate to MillerCoors various long-term non-cancellable advertising and promotion commitments.
c. Contingent liabilities and guarantees 2012 2011 US$m US$m 1 Guarantees to third parties provided in respect of trade loans 4 8 Guarantees to third parties provided in respect of bank facilities 14 3 Share of joint ventures contingent liabilities 4 6 2 Litigation 23 24 Other contingent liabilities 9 4 54 45 1 Guarantees to third parties provided in respect of trade loans These primarily relate to guarantees given by Grolsch to banks in relation to loans taken out by trade customers.
2 Litigation The group has a number of activities in a wide variety of geographic areas and is subject to certain legal claims incidental to its operations.
Inthe opinion of the directors, after taking appropriate legal advice, these claims are not expected to have, either individually or in aggregate, a material adverse effect upon the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
These include claims made by certain former employees in Ecuador arising out of events which took place before the groups investment inEcuador in 2005, in respect of which, based on legal advice that they have no valid legal basis, the directors have determined that no provision is required and that they should continue to be contested.
Other SABMiller and Altria entered into a tax matters agreement the Agreement on 30 May 2002, to regulate the conduct of tax matters between them with regard to the acquisition of Miller and to allocate responsibility for contingent tax costs.
SABMiller has agreed to indemnify Altria against any taxes, losses, liabilities and costs that Altria incurs arising out of or in connection with a breach by SABMiller of any representation, agreement or covenant in the Agreement, subject to certain exceptions.
The group has exposures to various environmental risks.
Although it is difficult to predict the groups liability with respect to these risks, future payments, if any, would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material to the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
154 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world.
These schemes have been designed and are administered in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries concerned and include both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
The majority of the schemes are funded and the schemes assets are held independently of the groups finances.
The assets of the schemes do not include any of the groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by or other assets used by the group.
Pension and post-retirement benefit costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent professionally qualified actuaries.
Generally, the projected unit method is applied to measure the defined benefit scheme liabilities.
The group also provides medical benefits, which are mainly unfunded, for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, theNetherlands and Latin America.
The total pension and post-retirement medical benefit costs recognised in the income statement, and related net liabilities on the balance sheetare as follows.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Defined contribution scheme costs 97 97 Defined benefit pension plan costs 15 17 Post-retirement medical and other benefit costs 13 5 Accruals for defined contribution plans balance sheet 3 3 Provisions for defined benefit pension plans balance sheet 197 196 Provisions for other post-retirement benefits balance sheet 112 114 The group operates various defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
Details of the main defined benefit schemes are provided below.
Latin America pension schemes The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout Latin America.
Details of the major scheme are provided below.
The Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan is an unfunded scheme of the defined benefit type and covers all salaried and hourly employees in Colombia who are not covered by social security or who have at least 10 years of service prior to 1 January 1967.
The plan is financed entirely through company reserves and there are no external assets.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan was carried out by independent professionally qualified actuaries at 28 February 2012 using the projected unit credit method.
All salaried employees are now covered by social security or private pension fund provisions.
The principal economic assumptions used in the preparation of the pension valuations are shown below and take into consideration changes in the Colombian economy.
Grolsch pension scheme The Grolsch pension plan, named Stichting Pensioenfonds van fide Grolsche Bierbrouwerij, is a funded scheme of the defined benefit type, based on average salary with assets held in separately administered funds.
The latest valuation of the Grolsch pension fund was carried out at 31 March 2012 by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Other Details of other defined benefit pension schemes are provided below.
Fosters pension scheme The Fosters pension plan, named AusBev Superannuation Fund, provides accumulation style and defined benefits to employees.
The company funds the defined benefits, administration and insurance costs of the fund as a benefit to employees who elect to be members of this fund.
The latest valuation of the Fosters pension scheme was carried out at 30 June 2011 by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The defined benefits section is now closed to new members.
South Africa pension schemes The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout South Africa.
Details of the major schemes are provided below.
The ABI Pension Fund, Suncrush Pension Fund and Suncrush Retirement Fund are funded schemes of the defined benefit type based on average salary with assets held in separately administered funds.
The surplus apportionment schemes for the ABI Pension Fund, the Suncrush Pension Fund and Suncrush Retirement Fund have been approved by the Financial Services Board.
The active and pensioner liabilities in respect of the ABI Pension Fund and the Suncrush Retirement Fund have been settled.
The only liabilities are in respect of former members, the surplus apportionment scheme and unclaimed benefits.
Once the surplus liabilities have been settled, the Funds will be deregistered and liquidated.
During the year a significant number of former members of the ABI Pension Fund were successfully traced and there was a second allocation of surplus to the former members of the Fund in terms of Section 15C of the Pension Funds Act.
The Section 14 transfer of the Suncrush Pension Fund members to the SAB Staff Provident Fund was annulled by the Financial Services Board on 24 August 2011.
The trustees have decided to make a provision in the rules of the fund to allow for paid-up benefits for each of the members.
This would allow for each member to be paid their initial benefit, valued as at 1 July 2005, upon their exit.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 155 32.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued Principal actuarial assumptions at 31 March expressed as weighted averages Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits Latin America Grolsch Other South Africa Other At 31 March 2012 Discount rate % 7.5 4.8 6.0 9.3 7.0 Salary inflation % 3.5 2.0 3.8 Pension inflation % 3.5 2.0 3.2 Healthcare cost inflation % 7.8 3.0 Mortality rate assumptions Retirement age: Males 55 65 66 63 57 Females 50 65 61 63 53 Life expectations on retirement age: Retiring today: Males 27 21 32 16 24 Females 36 24 33 20 31 Retiring in 20 years: Males 27 23 32 16 24 Females 36 25 33 20 32 At 31 March 2011 Discount rate % 8.4 5.3 5.2 8.8 8.4 Salary inflation % 4.0 2.0 2.4 Pension inflation % 4.0 2.0 3.0 Healthcare cost inflation % 7.3 4.0 Mortality rate assumptions Retirement age: Males 55 65 63 55 Females 50 65 63 50 Life expectations on retirement age: Retiring today: Males 27 21 16 27 Females 36 24 20 36 Retiring in 20 years: Males 22 16 Females 25 20 156 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The present value of defined benefit pension plan and post-employment medical benefit liabilities are as follows.
Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits Latin South America Grolsch Other Total Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Present value of scheme liabilities at 1 April 2010 148 299 62 509 59 44 103 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 146 24 170 59 44 103 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 2 299 38 339 Benefits paid 18 9 14 41 6 6 Contributions paid by plan participants 3 3 2 2 Current service cost 1 5 3 9 2 2 Past service cost 1 1 Interest costs 11 14 4 29 6 4 10 Actuarial losses gains 24 18 6 2 6 8 Settlements and curtailments 3 3 6 6 Transfer from to other provisions 3 3 Acquisitions 1 1 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale 6 6 Exchange adjustments 5 14 2 21 4 2 6 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2011 175 305 48 528 71 43 114 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 175 13 188 71 43 114 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 305 35 340 Benefits paid 18 11 15 44 4 4 Contributions paid by plan participants 3 3 2 2 Current service cost 4 2 6 2 1 3 Interest costs 13 15 5 33 6 4 10 Actuarial losses gains 6 21 13 40 1 1 Reversal of unused provision 10 10 Acquisitions 52 52 Exchange adjustments 6 18 3 15 10 1 9 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2012 172 319 102 593 66 46 112 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 172 13 185 66 46 112 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 319 89 408 The fair value reconciliations of opening plan assets to closing plan assets, on an aggregated basis, are as follows.
Defined benefit pension plans Grolsch Other Total US$m US$m US$m Plan assets at 1 April 2010 291 53 344 Expected return on plan assets 15 4 19 Benefits paid 9 10 19 Employer contributions 7 7 Actuarial gains 13 1 14 Exchange adjustments 16 4 20 Plan assets at 31 March 2011 333 52 385 Expected return on plan assets 16 8 24 Benefits paid 11 14 25 Employer contributions employer assets recognised 9 5 4 Actuarial gains losses 26 3 23 Acquisitions 51 51 Exchange adjustments 21 5 26 Plan assets at 31 March 2012 352 84 436 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 157 32.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The fair value of assets in pension schemes and the expected rates of return were: Latin America Grolsch Other Total LongLongLongterm term term rate of rate of rate of US$m return US$m return US$m return US$m At 31 March 2012 Equities 102 7.0 31 1.0 133 Bonds 229 4.0 14 9.0 243 Cash 34 6.0 34 Property and other 21 7.0 5 9.0 26 Total fair value of assets 352 84 436 Present value of scheme liabilities 172 319 102 593 Deficit surplus in the scheme 172 33 18 157 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 33 7 40 Pension liability recognised 172 25 197 At 31 March 2011 Equities 111 8.0 111 Bonds 202 4.0 4 9.0 206 Cash 48 8.0 48 Property and other 20 8.0 20 Total fair value of assets 333 52 385 Present value of scheme liabilities 175 305 48 528 Deficit surplus in the scheme 175 28 4 143 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 28 25 53 Pension liability recognised 175 21 196 The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows.
Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits Latin South America Grolsch Other Total Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2012 Present value of scheme liabilities 172 319 102 593 66 46 112 Fair value of plan assets 352 84 436 172 33 18 157 66 46 112 Unrecognised assets due to limit 33 7 40 Net liability recognised on balance sheet 172 25 197 66 46 112 At 31 March 2011 Present value of scheme liabilities 175 305 48 528 71 43 114 Fair value of plan assets 333 52 385 175 28 4 143 71 43 114 Unrecognised assets due to limit 28 25 53 Net liability recognised on balance sheet 175 21 196 71 43 114 In respect of defined benefit pensions plans in South Africa, which are included in Other, the pension asset recognised is limited to the extent that the employer is able to recover a surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.
Pension fund assets have been set equal to nil as the surplus apportionment exercise required in terms of the South African legislation has not yet beencompleted.
The pension asset recognised in respect of Grolsch is limited to the extent that the employer is able to recover a surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.
The limit has been set equal to nil due to the terms of the pension agreement with the pension fund.
158 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The amounts recognised in net operating expenses in the income statement are as follows.
Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits Latin South America Grolsch Other Total Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2012 Current service cost 4 2 6 2 1 3 Interest costs 13 15 5 33 6 4 10 Expected return on plan assets 16 8 24 13 3 1 15 8 5 13 At 31 March 2011 Current service cost 1 5 3 9 2 2 Past service cost 1 1 Interest costs 11 14 4 29 6 4 10 Expected return on plan assets 15 4 19 Settlements and curtailments 3 3 6 6 Unrecognised gains due to limit 1 1 12 1 4 17 8 3 5 The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows.
Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits Latin South America Grolsch Other Total Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2012 Actual return on plan assets 42 5 47 Less: expected return on plan assets 16 8 24 Experience gains losses arising on scheme assets 26 3 23 scheme liabilities 21 10 31 1 1 Changes in actuarial assumptions 6 3 9 1 1 Unrecognised gains losses due to limit 6 14 8 6 1 2 9 1 1 At 31 March 2011 Actual return on plan assets 28 5 33 Less: expected return on plan assets 15 4 19 Experience gains losses arising on scheme assets 13 1 14 scheme liabilities 18 18 2 2 Changes in actuarial assumptions 23 23 6 6 Other actuarial losses 1 1 Unrecognised gains due to limit 26 2 28 24 5 1 20 2 6 8 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 159 32.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The cumulative amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are as follows.
2012 2011 US$m US$m Cumulative actuarial losses recognised at beginning of year 203 175 Net actuarial losses recognised in the year 9 28 Cumulative actuarial losses recognised at end of year 212 203 History of actuarial gains and losses 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Experience gains losses of plan assets 23 14 33 77 90 Percentage of plan assets 5% 4% 10% 26% 7% Experience losses gains of scheme liabilities 30 16 44 28 2 Percentage of scheme liabilities 4% 2% 7% 6% 0% Fair value of plan assets 436 385 344 299 1,348 Present value of scheme liabilities 705 642 612 499 2,338 Deficit in the schemes 269 257 268 200 990 Unrecognised assets due to limit 40 53 22 17 27 Net liability recognised in balance sheet 309 310 290 217 1,017 Contributions expected to be paid into the groups major defined benefit schemes during the annual period after 31 March 2012 are US$25million.
A 1% increase and a 1% decrease in the assumed healthcare cost of inflation will have the following effect on the groups major post-employment medical benefits.
2012 Increase Decrease US$m US$m Current service costs Interest costs 1 1 Accumulated post-employment medical benefit costs 12 10 160 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Parties with significant influence over the group: Altria Group, Inc. Altria and the Santo Domingo Group SDG Altria is considered to be a related party of the group by virtue of its 27.0% equity shareholding.
There were no transactions with Altria during the year.
SDG is considered to be a related party of the group by virtue of its 14.1% equity shareholding in SABMiller plc.
During the year the group madea donation of US$33 million to the Fundacin Mario Santo Domingo 2011: US$32 million, pursuant to the contractual arrangements entered into at the time of the Bavaria transaction in 2005, under which it was agreed that the proceeds of the sale of surplus non-operating property assets owned by Bavaria SA and its subsidiaries would be donated to various charities, including the Fundacin Mario Santo Domingo.
At 31 March 2012 US$nil 2011: US$nil was owing to the SDG.
Associates and joint ventures Details relating to transactions with associates and joint ventures are analysed below.
2012 2011 US$m US$m 1 Purchases from associates 214 211 2 Purchases from joint ventures 86 75 3 Sales to associates 39 36 4 Sales to joint ventures 28 31 5 Dividends receivable from associates 150 89 6 Dividends received from joint ventures 896 822 7 Royalties received from associates 13 7 8 Royalties received from joint ventures 2 2 9 Management fees and other recoveries received from associates 24 10 10 Management and guarantee fees paid to joint ventures 1 2 1 The group purchased canned Coca-Cola products for resale from Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa Pty Limited Coca-Cola Canners : inventory from Distell Group Ltd Distell and Associated Fruit Processors Pty Ltd AFP : and accommodation from Tsogo Sun Holdings Pty Ltd Tsogo Sun, all in South Africa.
2 The group purchased lager from MillerCoors LLC MillerCoors.
3 The group made sales of lager to Tsogo Sun, Empresa fide Cervejas NGola SARL ECN, Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales and Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd Castel, Delta Corporation Ltd Delta and Distell.
4 The group made sales to MillerCoors and Pacific Beverages.
5 The group had dividends receivable from Castel of US$61 million 2011: US$39 million, Kenya Breweries Ltd US$9 million 2011: US$14 million, Coca-ColaCanners US$6 million 2011: US$5 million, Distell US$22 million 2011: US$21 million, Tsogo Sun US$41 million 2011: US$3 million, ECN US$nil 2011: US$3million, Delta US$3 million 2011: US$2 million, Grolsch UK Ltd of US$2 million 2011: US$2 million and International Trade and Supply Limited ofUS$6million 2011: US$nil.
6 The group received dividends from MillerCoors.
7 The group received royalties from Delta, Kenya Breweries Ltd and Anadolu Efes.
8 The group received royalties from MillerCoors and Pacific Beverages.
9 The group received management fees from ECN and Delta, and other recoveries from AFP.
10 The group paid management fees to MillerCoors.
2012 2011 At 31 March US$m US$m 1 Amounts owed by associates trade 145 12 2 Amounts owed by associates loans 60 3 Amounts owed by joint ventures 6 5 4 Amounts owed to associates 42 24 5 Amounts owed to joint ventures 17 16 1 Amounts owed by AFP, Delta, BIH Angola and Anadolu Efes.
2 Amounts owed by BIH Angola.
3 Amounts owed by MillerCoors and in the prior year also Pacific Beverages.
4 Amounts owed to Coca-Cola Canners and Tsogo Sun.
Amounts owed by associates include balances with BIH Angola and Anadolu Efes which were previously intra-group balances with former group subsidiaries in Angola, Russia and Ukraine.
c. Transactions with key management The group has a related party relationship with the directors of the group and members of the excom as key management.
At 31 March 2012 there were 27 2011: 24 members of key management.
Key management compensation is provided in note 6c.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 161 34.
Post balance sheet events There are no material post balance sheet events.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures The principal subsidiary undertakings of the group as at 31 March were as follows.
Effective interest Country of Principal Name incorporation activity 2012 2011 Corporate SABMiller Holdings Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% 1 SABMiller Africa and Asia BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Holdings SA Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% SABMiller Holdings SH Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% SABMiller International BV Netherlands Trademark owner 100% 100% SABMiller SAF Limited United Kingdom Holding company Financing 100% 2 SABMiller Southern Investments Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Holding company 100% 100% Trinity Procurement GmbH Switzerland Procurement 100% 100% Latin American operations 3 Bavaria SA Colombia Brewing Soft drinks 99% 99% Cervecera Argentina SA Isenbeck Argentina Brewing 100% 100% Cervecera del Valle SA Colombia Brewing 99% 99% Cervecera Hondurea, SA fide CV Honduras Brewing Soft drinks 99% 99% 3 Cervecera Nacional CN SA Ecuador Brewing 96% 96% 3 Cervecera Nacional SA Panama Brewing 97% 97% 3 Cervecera San Juan SA Peru Brewing Soft drinks 92% 92% Cervecera Unin SA Colombia Brewing 98% 98% Industrias La Constancia, SA fide CV El Salvador Brewing Soft drinks 100% 100% 3 Unin fide Cerveceras Peruanas Backus y Johnston SAA Peru Brewing 94% 94% European operations 1 SABMiller Europe BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Holdings Europe Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Netherlands Cooperative WA Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% Compaia Cervecera fide Canarias SA Spain Brewing 51% 51% Dreher Srgyrak Zrt Hungary Brewing 100% 100% Grolsche Bierbrouwerij Nederland BV Netherlands Brewing 100% 100% 4 Kompania Piwowarska SA Poland Brewing 100% 100% Miller Brands UK Ltd United Kingdom Sales and distribution 100% 100% Pivovary Topvar as Slovakia Brewing 100% 100% 5 PJSC Miller Brands Ukraine Ukraine Brewing 100% Plzen sk Prazdroj as Czech Republic Brewing 100% 100% 5 SABMiller RUS LLC Russia Brewing 100% 6 Birra Peroni Srl Italy Brewing 100% 100% Ursus Breweries SA Romania Brewing 99% 99% North American operations SABMiller Holdings Inc USA Holding company Financing 100% 100% Miller Brewing Company USA Holding company 100% 100% African operations SABMiller Africa BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% SABMiller Botswana BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% SABMiller A&A Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Investments Ltd Mauritius Holding company 80% 80% SABMiller Investments II BV Netherlands Holding company 80% 80% SABMiller Zimbabwe BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% Accra Brewery Ltd Ghana Brewing 60% 60% Ambo Mineral Water Share Company Ethiopia Soft drinks 40% 40% Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd Botswana Sorghum brewing 31% 31% 3 Cervejas fide Moambique SARL Mozambique Brewing 49% 49% Chibuku Products Ltd Malawi Sorghum brewing 31% 31% 7 Coca-Cola Bottling Luanda SARL Angola Soft drinks 28% 7 Coca-Cola Bottling Sul fide Angola SARL Angola Soft drinks 37% 8 Crown Beverages Ltd Kenya Soft drinks 80% 80% 162 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued Effective interest Country of Principal Name incorporation activity 2012 2011 African operations continued 7 Empresa fide Cervejas NGola Norte SA Angola Brewing 31% Heinrichs Syndicate Ltd Zambia Soft drinks 62% 62% Intafact Beverages Ltd Nigeria Brewing 41% 41% 3,9 International Breweries plc Nigeria Brewing 33% Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd Botswana Brewing Soft drinks 31% 31% Maluti Mountain Brewery Pty Ltd Lesotho Brewing Soft drinks 24% 24% MUBEX Mauritius Procurement 100% 100% 3 National Breweries plc Zambia Sorghum brewing 43% 43% Nile Breweries Ltd Uganda Brewing 62% 60% 9 Pabod Breweries Ltd Nigeria Brewing 38% 59% Rwenzori Bottling Company Ltd Uganda Soft drinks 80% 80% Southern Sudan Beverages Ltd South Sudan Brewing 80% 80% Swaziland Beverages Ltd Swaziland Brewing 37% 37% 3 Tanzania Breweries Ltd Tanzania Brewing 36% 33% Voltic GH Ltd Ghana Soft drinks 80% 80% 8 Voltic Nigeria Ltd Nigeria Soft drinks 50% 80% 3 Zambian Breweries plc Zambia Brewing Soft drinks 54% 54% Asia Pacific operations SABMiller Asia BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Asia Ltd Hong Kong Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller A&A 2 Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Beverage Investments Pty Ltd Australia Holding company 100% SABMiller India Ltd India Holding company 100% 100% Fosters Group Ltd Australia Holding company 100% Bulmer Australia Ltd Australia Brewing 100% Cascade Brewery Company Pty Ltd Australia Brewing 100% FBG Treasury Aust Ltd Australia Financing 100% Fosters Australia Ltd Australia Brewing 100% 3 Fosters Group Pacific Ltd Fiji Brewing 89% 10 Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd Australia Brewing 100% Queensland Breweries Pty Ltd Australia Brewing 100% SABMiller Breweries Private Ltd India Brewing 100% 100% SABMiller Vietnam Company Ltd Vietnam Brewing 100% 100% Skol Breweries Ltd India Brewing 99% 99% South African operations 11 The South African Breweries Pty Ltd South Africa Brewing Soft drinks 100% 100% Holding company The South African Breweries Hop Farms Pty Ltd South Africa Hop farming 100% 100% The South African Breweries Maltings Pty Ltd South Africa Maltsters 100% 100% Appletiser South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Fruit juices 100% 100% 1 Operates and resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom.
2 Previously SABMiller Latin America Ltd. 3 Listed in country of incorporation.
4 SABMiller Poland BV, a wholly owned subsidiary of the group, holds 100% of Kompania Piwowarska SA.
5 On 6 March 2012 the group completed its strategic alliance with Anadolu Group and Anadolu Efes Biraclk five Malt Sanayii AS Anadolu Efes.
The groups subsidiaries SABMiller RUS LLC and PJSC Miller Brands Ukraine were contributed to Anadolu Efes, in exchange for a 24% equity stake in the enlarged Anadolu Efes group.
6 Previously S. p. A Birra Peroni.
7 On 1 January 2012 the group acquired a 27.5% interest in BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Angola Ltd BIH Angola in exchange for contributing its Angolan businesses into BIH Angola.
8 Previously Crown Foods Ltd. 9 On 1 January 2012 the group acquired an effective 33% interest in International Breweries plc in exchange for cash and a dilution in the groups effective interests in its existing Nigerian businesses, Pabod Breweries Ltd and Voltic Nigeria Ltd. 10 On 13 January 2012 the remaining 50% interest in Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd was purchased and from this date the company has been a subsidiary.
In 2011 the company was a joint venture.
11 Previously The South African Breweries Ltd. Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 163 35.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued The group comprises a large number of companies.
The list above includes those subsidiary undertakings which materially affect the profit or net assets of the group, or a business segment, together with the principal intermediate holding companies of the group.
With the exception of those noted above, the principal country in which each of the above subsidiary undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
Where the groups nominal interest in the equity share capital of an undertaking is less than 50%, the basis on which the undertaking is a subsidiary undertaking of the group is as follows.
African operations The groups effective interest in the majority of its African operations was diluted as a result of the disposal of a 38% interest in SABMiller Africa BV and SABMiller Botswana BV on 1 April 2001, in exchange for a 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests.
Investments in new territories are generally being made with the Castel groups African beverage operations on an 80:20 basis.
The operations continue to be consolidated due to SABMiller Africa BVs, SABMiller Botswana BVs and SABMiller Investment II BVs majority shareholdings, and ability to control the operations.
Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd and Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd SABMiller Botswana holds a 40% interest in each of Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd and Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd with the remaining 60%interest in each held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Botswanas shares entitle the holder to twice the voting rights of thoseshares held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Africa BVs 10.1% indirect interest 2011: 10.1% is held via a 16.8% interest 2011: 16.8% in Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. Maluti Mountain Brewery Pty Ltd Maluti SABMiller Africa BV holds a 39% interest in Maluti with the remaining interest held by a government authority, the Lesotho National Development Corporation 51%, the Privatisation Unit 5.25%, and the Lesotho Unit Trust 4.75%.
Maluti is treated as a subsidiary undertaking based on the groups ability to control its operations through its board representation.
The day to day business operations are managed in accordance with a management agreement with Bevman Services AG, a group company.
164 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued Associates and joint ventures The principal associates and joint ventures of the group as at 31 March are as set out below.
Where the groups interest in an associate or a joint venture is held by a subsidiary undertaking which is not wholly owned by the group, the subsidiary undertaking is indicated in a note below.
Effective interest Country of Nature of Name incorporation relationship Principal activity 2012 2011 European operations Anadolu Efes Biraclk five Malt Turkey Associate Brewing Soft drinks 24% 1,2, 3 SanayiiAS Grolsch UK Ltd United Kingdom Associate Brewing 50% 50% North American operations 4 MillerCoors LLC USA Joint venture Brewing 58% 58% African operations BIH Brasseries Internationales Gibraltar Associate Holding company for subsidiaries 20% 20% 3 HoldingLtd principally located in Africa Socit des Brasseries et Glacires France Associate Holding company for subsidiaries 20% 20% 3 Internationales principally located in Africa 3,5 Algerienne fide Bavaroise Algeria Associate Brewing 40% 40% BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Gibraltar Associate Brewing Soft drinks 27% 3,7 Angola Ltd 1,3, 6 Delta Corporation Ltd Zimbabwe Associate Brewing Soft drinks 25% 23% 7 Empresa fide Cervejas NGola SARL Angola Associate Brewing 28% 6,8, 9 Kenya Breweries Ltd Kenya Associate Brewing 12% Marocaine dInvestissements et fide Morocco Associate Brewing 40% 40% 1,10 Services 3,5 Skikda Bottling Company Algeria Associate Soft drinks 40% 40% Socit fide Boissons fide IOuest, Algeria Associate Soft drinks 40% 40% 3,5 Algerien 3,5 Socit des Nouvelles Brasseries Algeria Associate Brewing 40% 40% Asia Pacific operations 3 China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd British Virgin Islands Associate Holding company for brewing 49% 49% subsidiaries located in China 11 Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd Australia Joint venture Sales and distribution 50% 3 International Trade and Supply Limited British Virgin Islands Associate Sales and distribution 40% South African operations Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa South Africa Associate Canning of beverages 32% 32% 3 Pty Ltd 1,8 Distell Group Ltd South Africa Associate Wines and spirits 29% 29% Hotels and Gaming 1,12 Tsogo Sun Holdings Ltd South Africa Associate Holding company for Hotels and 40% 40% Gaming operations 1 Listed in country of incorporation.
2 On 6 March 2012 the group completed its strategic alliance with Anadolu Group and Anadolu Efes Biraclk five Malt Sanayii AS Anadolu Efes.
3 These entities report their financial results for each 12 month period ending 31 December.
4 SABMiller shares joint control of MillerCoors with Molson Coors Brewing Company under a shareholders agreement.
Voting interests are shared equally between SABMiller and Molson Coors, and each of SABMiller and Molson Coors has equal board representation.
Under the agreement SABMiller has a 58% economic interest in MillerCoors and Molson Coors has a 42% economic interest.
5 Effective 18 March 2004 SABMiller acquired 25% of the Castel groups holding in these entities.
Together with its 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests, this gives SABMiller participation on a 40:60 basis with the Castel group.
6 Interests in these companies are held by SABMiller Africa BV which is held 62% by SABMiller Holdings Ltd. 7 On 1 January 2012 the group acquired a 27.5% interest in BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Angola Ltd BIH Angola in exchange for contributing its Angolan businesses into BIH Angola.
8 These entities report their financial results for each 12 month period ending 30 June.
10 SABMiller acquired a 25% direct interest in this holding company on 18 March 2004 which has controlling interests in three breweries, a malting plant and a wet depot in Morocco.
This 25% interest together with its 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests, gives SABMiller an effective participation of 40% and the other 60% is held by the Castel groups Africa beverage interests.
11 Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd became a subsidiary on 13 January 2012.
12 Previously Gold Reef Resorts Ltd.
The principal country in which each of the above associated undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
However, Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales, BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltds Castel and BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Angola Ltds principal subsidiaries are in Africa, China Resources Snow Breweries Ltds principal subsidiaries are in the Peoples Republic of China and International Trade and Supply Limited operates in the United Arab Emirates.
