The Sage Business Index Insights into our markets Our latest Index shows that businesses are still worried about global and local economic issues.
However, there are some positives to be taken from individual markets Guy Berruyer, Chief Executive Officer The fourth Sage Business Index published in September 2012, tracks the views of nearly 11,000 small to medium sized companies from across the globe, including Europe, The Sage Business Index North America, Africa, Asia and Brazil.
This report highlighted that nervousness about the September 2012 economy, both at global and country levels, continues to affect confidence.
Unsurprisingly, We recently launched the fourth Sage countries in Europe feel the least confident, with France recording the biggest fall in Business Index, a global measure of confidence.
However, businesses are taking actions to weather the storm and are more confidence across small and medium confident about their own prospects notwithstanding the economic headwinds.
an important reminder of the resilience of our customers.
Since our last Business Index in March We knew that when we did this Index the Eurozone crisis would indeed be a major factor in 2012, we have extended the reach of the the results, so we took the opportunity to find out a bit more about its impact.
Two thirds of survey to include 10,861 businesses from businesses felt that the Eurozone crisis had some or a significant impact on their business 15 countries, this time adding Brazil, and only 15% felt that the Eurozone could continue in its current form.
Poland, Portugal, Switzerland and Ireland.
This has provided us with the clearest So the very fact that, in light of all this uncertainty, businesses still feel confident about their picture yet of the pressures and prospects in the next six months is a testament to their strength and resilience.
Indeed challenges faced by small and medium nearly 70% of those we surveyed have been in business already for over 10 years and are sized companies around the world.
clearly equipped to deal with the changing landscape.
We first carried out the Index in February Exploring this in more detail we asked businesses if they felt that they had adapted to the 2011 and with the addition of the most challenges of the economic environment over the last three years.
Seven in 10 felt they had recent results, we now have two years and 88% of all businesses had made changes to this effect from cutting operational worth of insight into the challenges faced costs to developing new products and services.
by small and medium sized businesses Despite the many government initiatives across the world to help small and medium sized around the world.
companies, almost seven in 10 businesses still feel that their governments are just not doing enough for them.
What they feel would really make a difference to their ability to survive and thrive are reducing bureaucracy, reducing business tax and providing more opportunity for skills development.
Respondents who cited bureaucracy felt that tax law, labour law and public procurement procedures were the worst offenders.
More As a global business with over six million customers, we have a duty to support small and medium sized companies and we do this by providing products and services that take care of the basics, allowing them to achieve their business ambitions.
The Sage Business Visit the index at Index is an important part of helping us to stay close to what our customers are saying and www.
com what they are experiencing.
We hope that it also proves a useful guide for governments and other stakeholders as to how we can all support these businesses better.
26 The Sage Business Index International Business Insights Business confidence and the economy Global economy Country economy Business confidence 60 58.86 57.88 57.17 56.48 56.46 52.13 50 47.26 47.11 44.47 43.95 42.59 42.47 40 February 2011 September 2011 March 2012 September 2012 Business challenges, the top three concerns In the past six months, has revenue 1.
Inflation and rising costs of energy, fuel, raw materials 2.
Instability uncertainty in local economic market 3.
Decreased consumer confidence Dont know Increased 10% 31% Decreased Stayed the same 27% 32% The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 27 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview
