Consolidated statement of cash flows Notes to the Group financial statements For the year ended 30 September 2012 2012 Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an Group accounting policies m entity so as to benefit from its activities.
General information Cash flows from operating activities The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the The Sage Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Cash generated from continuing operations 12.1 383.8 405.1 Consolidated income statement, Consolidated statement of comprehensive Group is a leading global provider of business management software to small Interest paid 11.5 13.0 income and Consolidated statement of cash flows from the date of control.
The Group has over six million customers and Income tax paid 95.2 92.5 They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
more than 13,500 employees in 24 countries covering Europe, Americas, Operating cash flows used in generated from discontinued operations 15.3 2.3 15.4 Africa, Australia, Middle East and Asia.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated Net cash generated from operating activities 274.8 315.0 on consolidation.
The Company is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The address of its registered office is North Park, Newcastle upon Tyne, The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions Cash flows from investing activities NE13 9AA.
with equity owners of the Group.
The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 16.1 162.8 1.4 The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 16.6 0.1 2.0 The Group consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by Purchases of intangible assets 5.2 10.8 9.3 Where the Group enters into put and call arrangements over shares held by a the Board of directors on 5 December 2012. non-controlling interest, the Group continues to recognise the non-controlling Purchases of property, plant and equipment 6 19.3 23.0 a Basis of preparation interest until the ownership risks and rewards of those shares transfer to Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.6 2.4 the Group.
The consolidated financial statements of The Sage Group plc have been Interest received 2.3 2.6 1.9 prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The results of discontinued operations are shown as a single amount on the Investing cash flows generated from discontinued operations, net of cash disposed 16.5 198.9 IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and International Financial face of the income statement comprising the post-tax profit or loss of Net cash generated from used in investing activities 9.3 27.4 Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as discontinued operations and the post-tax gain or loss recognised either on adopted by the EU.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on the disposal of the under the historical cost convention, except where adopted IFRS require Cash flows from financing activities discontinued operation.
The principal variations from the historical cost Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares 11.4 13.4 c Business combinations convention relate to derivative financial instruments which are measured at Purchase of treasury shares and related expenses 297.5 fair value through profit or loss.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
Finance lease principal payments 0.7 0.6 The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with Proceeds from borrowings 15.3 0.6 the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the Repayments of borrowings 0.7 83.4 management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups acquiree.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities Dividends paid to owners of the parent 4.2 136.5 104.0 accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Revised, Business complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Net cash used in financing activities 408.7 174.0 Combinations are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note B.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised Net decrease increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts The directors are satisfied that the Group has sufficient resources to at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value before exchange rate movement 12.2 124.6 113.6 continue in operation for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is 12 months from the date of this report.
Accordingly, the consolidated Effects of exchange rate movement 12.2 3.0 2.2 recognised in the income statement.
Contingent consideration that is classified financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and Net decrease increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 127.6 111.4 as equity is not re-measured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to within equity.
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at 1 October 12.2 182.0 70.6 companies reporting under IFRS.
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at 30 September 12.2 54.4 182.0 Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
share of the identifiable net assets acquired.
If, after reassessment, the Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2012 Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, The following standards, amendments and interpretations to standards have liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business been adopted in the financial statements.
None had any impact on the Group combination, the difference is recognised directly in the Consolidated income results or financial position: statement.
Any subsequent adjustment to reflect changes in consideration arising from contingent consideration amendments is recognised in the IFRIC interpretations Consolidated income statement.
amendment to IFRIC 14, Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement On an acquisition by acquisition basis, the Group recognises any Amendments to existing standards non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the nonAnnual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
amendment to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of IFRS Acquisition-related items are expensed as incurred.
amendment to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures d Segment reporting amendment to IAS 24 revised 2011, Related Party Disclosures The Groups segmental analysis has been derived using the information used by the chief operating decision maker.
The Groups Executive Committee has There are no other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that been identified as the chief operating decision maker as the Committee is would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
responsible for the allocation of resources to operating segments and b Basis of consolidation assessing their performance.
The financial statements of the Group comprise the financial statements Segment assets include all intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries inventories, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents and tax prepared at the end of the reporting period.
The accounting policies have assets.
Segment liabilities comprise mainly trade and other payables, been consistently applied across the Group.
Control is achieved where the The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 81 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Group accounting policies continued d Segment reporting continued the state of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date can be measured reliably: and post-employment benefit obligations, tax liabilities and certain borrowings that can be attributed to the segment but exclude borrowings that are for general the costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the corporate purposes.
transaction can be measured reliably.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment f Goodwill and intangible assets.
The profit measure used by the Executive Committee Goodwill arising from the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the excess is Earnings before interest, tax and adjustments EBITA which excludes of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest the effects of amortisation of acquired intangible assets, the amortisation of in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of the Groups share of the software development expenditure and acquisition-related items on a constant identifiable net assets acquired over the fair value of the Groups share of currency basis.
The operating segments are reported in a manner which is the identifiable net assets.
In the case of a bargain purchase, when the consistent with the operating segments produced for internal management consideration is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary reporting.
At 30 September 2012 the Group was organised into geographical acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the Consolidated statement segments based on the location of assets.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated e Revenue recognition impairment losses.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs expected to benefit receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services from the synergies of the combination, and the allocation represents the provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other lowest level at which goodwill is monitored.
Goodwill previously written-off directly to reserves under UK GAAP prior to The Group reports revenue under two revenue categories: 1 October 1998 has not been reinstated and is not recycled to the income statement on the disposal of the business to which it relates.
Gains and losses subscription revenues, which are recurring in nature and include combined on disposal of the entity include the carrying amount of the foreign exchange software support contracts, maintenance and support, transaction services on the goodwill relating to the entity sold except for goodwill taken to reserves payment processing and hosted products: and prior to the transition to IFRS on 1 October 2004. software and software-related services revenue, which includes software g Impairment of assets licences, sale of professional services, business forms, hardware and training.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purposes of impairment testing.
The Subscription revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of recoverable amount of the CGU to which the goodwill relates is tested annually the subscription contract including non-specified upgrades when included.
for impairment or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that it Revenue not recognised in the income statement under this policy is classified might be impaired.
as deferred income in the balance sheet.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment, investments measured Software licences the Group recognises the revenue allocable to software using a cost basis and intangible assets other than goodwill are reviewed for licences and specified upgrades when all the following conditions have impairment only when events indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
been satisfied: In an impairment test, the recoverable amount of the CGU or asset is the Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of estimated to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
The recoverable ownership of the licence: amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the value-in-use in the the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree Group.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold: exceeds the recoverable amount.
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: In determining CGUs or assets value-in-use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific will flow to the Group: and to the CGU or asset that have not already been included in the estimate of the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be future cash flows.
h Intangible assets arising on business combinations Where appropriate the Group provides a reserve for estimated returns under Intangible assets are recognised when brands, technology and or customerthe standard acceptance terms at the time the revenue is recorded.
related contractual cash flows exist, along with any other intangibles acquired on a business combination, and their fair value can therefore Where software is sold with after-sales service, the consideration is allocated be measured reliably.
between the different elements on a relative fair value basis.
The revenue allocated to each element is recognised as outlined above.
Intangible assets arising on business combinations are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses if applicable.
Other products which includes business forms and hardware revenue is recognised as the products are shipped.
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each intangible asset.
Other services which includes the sale of professional services and training Intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
revenue associated with the transaction is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period.
The The estimated useful lives are as follows: outcome of a transaction can be estimated reliably when all the following Brand names 3 to 20 years conditions are satisfied: Technology In process R&D IPR&D 3 to 7 years the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: Customer relationships 4 to 15 years it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group: 82 Group accounting policies continued d Segment reporting continued the state of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date can Fully amortised intangible assets which are no longer in use are eliminated n Non-current assets held for sale be measured reliably: and from the balance sheet and presented as a disposal within the notes to the post-employment benefit obligations, tax liabilities and certain borrowings that Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale financial statements.
can be attributed to the segment but exclude borrowings that are for general when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale the costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the corporate purposes.
transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the transaction can be measured reliably.
i Intangible assets other lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets and liabilities Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less f Goodwill of disposal groups classified as held for sale are shown separately on the face and intangible assets.
The profit measure used by the Executive Committee accumulated amortisation and impairment losses if applicable.
Software Goodwill arising from the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the excess of the balance sheet.
is Earnings before interest, tax and adjustments EBITA which excludes assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest the effects of amortisation of acquired intangible assets, the amortisation of which do not exceed seven years.
o Financial assets in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of the Groups share of the software development expenditure and acquisition-related items on a constant The Group classifies its financial assets in the category loans and receivables.
identifiable net assets acquired over the fair value of the Groups share of j Internally generated intangible assets research and currency basis.
The operating segments are reported in a manner which is This classification is due to the purpose for which the financial assets were the identifiable net assets.
In the case of a bargain purchase, when the development expenditure consistent with the operating segments produced for internal management acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at consideration is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary reporting.
At 30 September 2012 the Group was organised into geographical Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period initial recognition.
acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the Consolidated statement segments based on the location of assets.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated Loans and receivables An internally generated intangible asset arising from the development of e Revenue recognition impairment losses.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed software is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs expected to benefit receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services it is probable that the asset will create future economic benefits: included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after from the synergies of the combination, and the allocation represents the provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other the end of the reporting period.
These are classified as non-current assets.
lowest level at which goodwill is monitored.
the development costs can be measured reliably: sales-related taxes.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables Goodwill previously written-off directly to reserves under UK GAAP prior to technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset can be demonstrated: excluding prepayments and accrued income note p and cash and cash The Group reports revenue under two revenue categories: 1 October 1998 has not been reinstated and is not recycled to the income equivalents in the balance sheet note m. there is the intention to complete the asset and use or sell it: statement on the disposal of the business to which it relates.
Gains and losses subscription revenues, which are recurring in nature and include combined on disposal of the entity include the carrying amount of the foreign exchange p Trade receivables and trade payables software support contracts, maintenance and support, transaction services there is the ability to use or sell the asset: and on the goodwill relating to the entity sold except for goodwill taken to reserves Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently payment processing and hosted products: and adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the prior to the transition to IFRS on 1 October 2004. measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision software and software-related services revenue, which includes software development and to use or sell the asset are available.
g Impairment of assets licences, sale of professional services, business forms, hardware and training.
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised over their estimated A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purposes of impairment testing.
The Subscription revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of useful lives which is between three to six years on a straight-line basis.
is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts recoverable amount of the CGU to which the goodwill relates is tested annually the subscription contract including non-specified upgrades when included.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial for impairment or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that it Revenue not recognised in the income statement under this policy is classified development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy might be impaired.
or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are The carrying values of property, plant and equipment, investments measured considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount Software licences the Group recognises the revenue allocable to software k Property, plant and equipment using a cost basis and intangible assets other than goodwill are reviewed for of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and licences and specified upgrades when all the following conditions have Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated impairment only when events indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original been satisfied: depreciation and impairment losses if applicable.
Depreciation on property, effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through In an impairment test, the recoverable amount of the CGU or asset is plant and equipment is provided on a straight-line basis down to an assets the Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised estimated to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
The recoverable residual value over its useful economic life as follows: ownership of the licence: in the income statement within selling and administrative expenses.
When amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the value-in-use in the a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written-off against the allowance the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree Freehold buildings 50 years Group.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold: exceeds the recoverable amount.
Long leasehold buildings and improvements over period of lease written-off are credited against selling and administrative expenses in the Plant and equipment 2 to 7 years the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: In determining CGUs or assets value-in-use, estimated future cash flows are income statement.
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects Motor vehicles 4 years it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific Office equipment 5 to 7 years will flow to the Group: and measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
to the CGU or asset that have not already been included in the estimate of Freehold land is not depreciated.
the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be future cash flows.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, h Intangible assets arising on business combinations Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and at the end of each reporting period.
Where appropriate the Group provides a reserve for estimated returns under deferred tax.
Intangible assets are recognised when brands, technology and or customerthe standard acceptance terms at the time the revenue is recorded.
related contractual cash flows exist, along with any other intangibles l Inventories The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
acquired on a business combination, and their fair value can therefore Where software is sold with after-sales service, the consideration is allocated Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the Consolidated income be measured reliably.
The revenue allowances for slow moving or obsolete items.
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or allocated to each element is recognised as outlined above.
Intangible assets arising on business combinations are stated at cost less Cost includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or accumulated amortisation and impairment losses if applicable.
Other products which includes business forms and hardware revenue is them to their existing location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that recognised as the products are shipped.
have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Other services which includes the sale of professional services and training Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of m Cash and cash equivalents Intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
revenue associated with the transaction is recognised by reference to the assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax For the purpose of preparation of the Consolidated statement of cash flows stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period.
The bases used in the computation of taxable profit and are accounted for using The estimated useful lives are as follows: and the Consolidated balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents include cash outcome of a transaction can be estimated reliably when all the following the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity period of Brand names 3 to 20 years conditions are satisfied: recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are an integral part of a subsidiarys Technology In process R&D IPR&D 3 to 7 years recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: cash management are included in cash and cash equivalents where they have against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets Customer relationships 4 to 15 years a legal right of set-off and there is an intention to settle net, against positive it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from cash balances, otherwise bank overdrafts are classified as borrowings.
will flow to the Group: The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 83 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Group accounting policies continued q Income tax continued The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
Currency exposure arising from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is managed primarily through other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies.
The Group also operates net investment hedges, using foreign currency Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising borrowings.
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The ineffective portion difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
On disposal of the net investment, The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each the foreign exchange gains and losses on the hedging instrument reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable are recognised in the income statement from equity.
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset Shares repurchased for cancellation to be recovered.
The Group also makes use of contingent contracts for the purchase of its own Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the shares.
These derivative contracts are accounted for as equity transactions period when the liability is settled or the asset realised based on tax rates that and the contracts are not stated at their market values.
The present value have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
of the obligation to purchase the shares is recognised in full at the inception Deferred tax and current tax are charged or credited to profit or loss, except of the contract, even when that obligation is conditional.
Any subsequent when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case reduction in the total obligation arising from the early termination of a contract the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
is credited back to equity at the time of termination.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to Put and call arrangement granted to non-controlling interest set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate Where put and call agreements are in place in respect of shares held by to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends a non-controlling interest, the put element of the liability is measured in to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
accordance with the requirements of IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation.
At the end of each period, the valuation of the liability is In recognising income tax assets and liabilities, management makes estimates reassessed with any changes recognised in the income statement.
of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities on transactions and events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain.
Where the final s Foreign currency translation outcome of such matters is different, or expected to be different, from The individual financial statements of each Group entity are presented in the previous assessments made by management, a change to the carrying value currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates of income tax assets and liabilities will be recorded in the period in which its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial such a determination is made.
The carrying values of income tax assets and statements, the results and financial position of each entity are expressed liabilities are disclosed separately in the Consolidated balance sheet.
in Sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent Company and the r Financial liabilities presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provision of the instrument.
currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Hedge accounting At the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage exposures where currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the end of the reporting appropriate.
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value, and are period.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in subsequently remeasured to fair value at the end of the reporting period.
foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the date when Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are accounted for in line with the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in the nature of the hedging arrangement.
Derivatives are intended to be highly terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
effective in mitigating the underlying risk, and hedge accounting is adopted Exchange differences arising on the settlements of monetary items and on where the required hedge documentation is in place and the relevant test the retranslation of monetary items are included in profit or loss for the period.
Changes in fair value of any derivative instruments that Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period except for income statement.
differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect Derivative instruments are used to manage the Groups exposure to changes of which gains and losses are recognised outside profit or loss.
For such in cash flows arising from movements in underlying exposures.
The derivatives non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also are designated as cash flow hedges, and hedge accounting is used where recognised outside profit or loss.
it has been shown that the hedge relationship is highly effective.
Gains and For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets losses on derivative financial instruments in a cash flow hedge relationship are and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations including comparatives recognised in other comprehensive income and subsequently recognised in are expressed in Sterling using exchange rates prevailing at the end of the the income statement in the same period that the hedged item affects income.
Income and expense items including comparatives are When a hedging instrument is closed out, or when a hedge no longer meets translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity fluctuated significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction at the dates of the transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction are recognised in other comprehensive income and transferred to the Groups is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported translation reserve.
in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
translated at the closing rate.
84 Group accounting policies continued q Income tax continued The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences out the estimates made in previous years, an adjustment will be made to the exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
Currency exposure arising from that were recorded in other comprehensive income are recycled in the income plans defined benefit obligation in future periods which could have a material goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is managed primarily through statement as part of the gain or loss on sale, with the exception of exchange effect on the Group.
The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities relating other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies.
differences recorded in equity prior to the transition to IFRS on 1 October to defined benefit plans, together with the key assumptions used in the nor the accounting profit.
2004, in accordance with IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial calculation of the defined benefit obligations relating to those plans, are The Group also operates net investment hedges, using foreign currency Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising Reporting Standards.
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective t Borrowings w Share-based payments reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
On disposal of the net investment, attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition,  share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each the foreign exchange gains and losses on the hedging instrument bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between effect of non-market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable are recognised in the income statement from equity.
cost and redemption value being recognised in the Consolidated income value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset statement over the period of borrowing on an effective interest basis.
is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Shares repurchased for cancellation to be recovered.
Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest allowing for the effect The Group also makes use of contingent contracts for the purchase of its own u Leasing Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the of non-market-based vesting conditions.
These derivative contracts are accounted for as equity transactions period when the liability is settled or the asset realised based on tax rates that Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the and the contracts are not stated at their market values.
The present value Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes or the Monte Carlo pricing have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease of the obligation to purchase the shares is recognised in full at the inception models.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on Deferred tax and current tax are charged or credited to profit or loss, except payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding of the contract, even when that obligation is conditional.
Any subsequent managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease reduction in the total obligation arising from the early termination of a contract restrictions and behavioural considerations.
the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and is credited back to equity at the time of termination.
reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest The Group also provides certain employees with the ability to purchase the Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to Put and call arrangement granted to non-controlling interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Groups ordinary shares at a discount to the current market value at the date set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate Where put and call agreements are in place in respect of shares held by of the grant.
The Group records an expense, based on its estimate of the to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends Finance charges are charged directly as finance costs to the income statement.
a non-controlling interest, the put element of the liability is measured in discount related to shares expected to vest, on a straight-line basis over the to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
accordance with the requirements of IAS 32, Financial Instruments: The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are vesting period.
At the end of each period, the valuation of the liability is In recognising income tax assets and liabilities, management makes estimates depreciated over the shorter of the assets useful life and the lease term.
At the end of the reporting period, the entity revises its estimates for the reassessed with any changes recognised in the income statement.
of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities on transactions and Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a number of options expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain.
Where the final s Foreign currency translation straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding outcome of such matters is different, or expected to be different, from receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on The individual financial statements of each Group entity are presented in the adjustment to equity.
previous assessments made by management, a change to the carrying value a straight-line basis over the lease term.
currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates of income tax assets and liabilities will be recorded in the period in which The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are its functional currency.
The carrying values of income tax assets and v Post-employment benefits credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options statements, the results and financial position of each entity are expressed liabilities are disclosed separately in the Consolidated balance sheet.
The Group operates money purchase pension schemes defined contribution in Sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent Company and the schemes for certain of its employees.
The contributions are charged to the r Financial liabilities presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
x Dividends income statement as incurred.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as a liability in the period in which In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in The Group also operates a small defined benefit pension scheme and other when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provision of the instrument.
they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are post-employment benefit schemes.
The assets of these schemes are held recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Hedge accounting y Provisions separately from the assets of the Group.
The costs of providing benefits At the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage exposures where under these schemes are determined using the projected unit credit actuarial A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the end of the reporting appropriate.
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value, and are valuation method.
legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, when it can be period.
reliably measured and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the date when The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are accounted for in line with the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in are included in selling and administrative expenses in the income statement.
determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate the nature of the hedging arrangement.
Past service costs are similarly included where the benefits have vested, that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, effective in mitigating the underlying risk, and hedge accounting is adopted otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Exchange differences arising on the settlements of monetary items and on where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
where the required hedge documentation is in place and the relevant test The expected return on assets of funded defined benefit pension schemes and the retranslation of monetary items are included in profit or loss for the period.
Changes in fair value of any derivative instruments that the imputed interest on pension plan liabilities comprise the pension element z Share capital Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the of the net finance cost income in the income statement.
carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period except for Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable income statement.
differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in equity as a Differences between the actual and expected return on assets, changes Derivative instruments are used to manage the Groups exposure to changes of which gains and losses are recognised outside profit or loss.
For such deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
in the post-employment benefit obligation due to experience and changes in in cash flows arising from movements in underlying exposures.
The derivatives non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also actuarial assumptions are included in the statement of comprehensive income Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital are designated as cash flow hedges, and hedge accounting is used where recognised outside profit or loss.
in full in the period in which they arise.
treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable it has been shown that the hedge relationship is highly effective.
Gains and For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit losses on derivative financial instruments in a cash flow hedge relationship are and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations including comparatives to the owners of the Company until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
pension scheme is the present value of the defined benefit obligation and recognised in other comprehensive income and subsequently recognised in are expressed in Sterling using exchange rates prevailing at the end of the unrecognised past service cost and future administration costs at the end of the income statement in the same period that the hedged item affects income.
Income and expense items including comparatives are the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit When a hedging instrument is closed out, or when a hedge no longer meets translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries.
The present value the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity fluctuated significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction at the dates of the transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction are recognised in other comprehensive income and transferred to the Groups are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported translation reserve.
have terms to maturity approximate to the terms of the related pension liability.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign The calculation of the defined benefit obligation of a defined benefit plan In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and requires estimation of future events, for example salary and pension increases, derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
In the event that future experience does not bear The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 85 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Group accounting policies continued A Adoption of new and revised IFRS Impairment reviews The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, New and amended standards not yet mandatory for the Group in accordance with the accounting policy stated above.
The recoverable At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards, amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on  and amendments were issued but not yet mandatory for the use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates note 5.1.
Group and early adoption has not been applied.
Income taxes International Accounting Standards IAS The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant IAS 27 revised 2011, Separate Financial Statements judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income IAS 28 revised 2011, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures taxes.
There are transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of IFRS 9, Financial Instruments whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements matters is different from the amounts that were recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements determination is made.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13, Fair value Measurement Amendments to existing standards amendment to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of IFRS amendment to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 on transition guidance amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements amendment to IAS 12, Income Taxes amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benefits amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation Annual improvements to IFRSs 2011 It is considered that the above standards, amendments and interpretations will not have a significant effect on the results or net assets of the Group but will increase the level of disclosure to be made in the financial statements.
The amendments to IAS 19 and IAS 1 are the only amendments endorsed by the EU at the date of approval of these consolidated financial statements.
The other new and amended standards are not yet endorsed.
B Critical accounting estimates and judgements In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management has to make judgements on how to apply the Groups accounting policies and make estimates about the future.
The critical judgements that have been made in arriving at the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements and the key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the next financial year are discussed below: Acquisitions When acquiring a business, the Group has to make judgements and best estimates about the fair value allocation of the purchase price.
The Group seeks appropriate competent and professional advice before making any such allocations.
The Group tests the valuation of goodwill on an annual basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
These tests require the use of estimates note 5.1.
86 Group accounting policies continued Results for the year A Adoption of new and revised IFRS Impairment reviews 1 Segment information The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, New and amended standards not yet mandatory for the Group In accordance with IFRS 8, Operating Segments, information for the Groups operating segments has been derived using the information used by the chief in accordance with the accounting policy stated above.
The recoverable At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards, operating decision maker.
The Groups Executive Committee has been identified as the chief operating decision maker as the Committee is responsible for the amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on  and amendments were issued but not yet mandatory for the allocation of resources to operating segments and assessing their performance.
The profit measure used by the Executive Committee is Earnings before interest, use calculations.
tax and adjustments EBITA which excludes the effects of amortisation of acquired intangible assets, the amortisation of software development expenditure and acquisition-related items on a constant currency basis.
Operating segments are reported in a manner which is consistent with the operating segments Income taxes International Accounting Standards IAS produced for internal management reporting.
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant IAS 27 revised 2011, Separate Financial Statements judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income The North America operating segment has been renamed to Americas.
For the year ended 30 September 2012 this includes operations in Brazil which have IAS 28 revised 2011, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures taxes.
There are transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax arisen from acquisitions made during the year note 16. determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The Group is organised into three operating segments.
The UK is the home country of the parent.
The main operations in the principal territories are as follows: recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of IFRS 9, Financial Instruments whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these Europe France, UK & Ireland, Spain, Germany, Switzerland, Poland and Portugal IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements matters is different from the amounts that were recorded, such differences will Americas US, Brazil and Canada impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements determination is made.
AAMEA Africa, Australia, Middle East and Asia IFRS 12, Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities The Africa operations are principally based in South Africa, the Middle East and Asia operations are principally based in Singapore, Malaysia, UAE and India.
IFRS 13, Fair value Measurement The revenue analysis in the table below is based on the location of the customer which is not materially different from the location where the order is received Amendments to existing standards and where the assets are located.
amendment to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of IFRS The tables below show a segmental analysis of the results for continuing operations.
For information relating to discontinued operations refer to note 15. amendment to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1.1 Revenue by segment amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 on transition guidance Year ended 30 September 2012 Year ended 30 September 2011 Change amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements NonNonGAAP GAAP amendment to IAS 12, Income Taxes Organic NonUnderlying Organic organic Underlying organic IFRS revenue GAAP IFRS Currency at constant revenue constant IFRS at constant constant 1 2 1 amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benefits statutory adjustment organic statutory impact currency adjustment currency statutory currency currency m m m m m m m m % % % amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation Subscription revenue by segment Annual improvements to IFRSs 2011 Europe 516.1 5.1 511.0 500.9 16.0 484.9 484.9 3% 6% 5% It is considered that the above standards, amendments and interpretations Americas 324.2 23.0 301.2 299.7 3.8 303.5 14.7 288.8 8% 7% 4% will not have a significant effect on the results or net assets of the Group but AAMEA 82.4 0.1 82.3 75.9 4.3 71.6 0.3 71.3 9% 15% 15% will increase the level of disclosure to be made in the financial statements.
Subscription revenue 922.7 28.2 894.5 876.5 16.5 860.0 15.0 845.0 5% 7% 6% The amendments to IAS 19 and IAS 1 are the only amendments endorsed Software and software-related by the EU at the date of approval of these consolidated financial statements.
services SSRS revenue by The other new and amended standards are not yet endorsed.
segment Europe 259.7 259.7 294.8 14.6 280.2 280.2 -12% -7% -7% B Critical accounting estimates and judgements Americas 87.5 9.3 78.2 91.2 1.1 92.3 9.1 83.2 -4% -5% -6% In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management has to make AAMEA 70.3 0.5 69.8 71.6 5.0 66.6 1.8 64.8 -2% 6% 8% judgements on how to apply the Groups accounting policies and make estimates about the future.
The critical judgements that have been made in SSRS revenue 417.5 9.8 407.7 457.6 18.5 439.1 10.9 428.2 -9% -5% -5% arriving at the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements Total revenue by segment and the key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of Europe 775.8 5.1 770.7 795.7 30.6 765.1 765.1 -3% 1% 1% causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities Americas 411.7 32.3 379.4 390.9 4.9 395.8 23.8 372.0 5% 4% 2% in the next financial year are discussed below: AAMEA 152.7 0.6 152.1 147.5 9.3 138.2 2.1 136.1 4% 10% 12% Acquisitions Total revenue 1,340.2 38.0 1,302.2 1,334.1 35.0 1,299.1 25.9 1,273.2 0% 3% 2% When acquiring a business, the Group has to make judgements and best estimates about the fair value allocation of the purchase price.
The Group 1 Organic revenue adjustment includes the contributions of current and prior year acquisitions, disposals and non-core products.
seeks appropriate competent and professional advice before making any 2 Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2011 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2012 such allocations.
The Group tests the valuation of goodwill on an annual of $1.58 1 and 1.22 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 87 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Results for the year continued 1 Segment information continued 1.2 Profit by segment Year ended 30 September 2012 Year ended 30 September 2011 Change Underlying Underlying IFRS IFRS Non-GAAP IFRS Non-GAAP Non-GAAP statutory statutory Non-GAAP EBITA statutory EBITA Currency operating Non-GAAP operating EBITA constant operating EBITA constant 1 1 2 profit Adjustment EBITA profit Adjustment reported impact currency profit reported currency m m m m m m m m % % % Profit by segment Europe 207.8 11.3 219.1 213.7 15.6 229.3 8.4 220.9 -3% -4% -1% Americas 96.8 9.3 106.1 94.2 5.5 99.7 1.2 100.9 3% 6% 5% AAMEA 40.3 0.9 41.2 35.4 1.1 36.5 2.3 34.2 14% 13% 20% Total profit 344.9 21.5 366.4 343.3 22.2 365.5 9.5 356.0 0% 0% 3% 1 Adjustment includes the effects of amortisation of acquired intangible assets, amortisation of software development expenditure and acquisition-related items.
2 Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2011 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2012 of $1.58 1 and 1.22 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Europe Americas AAMEA Group Year ended 30 September 2012 Note m m m m The results by segment from continuing operations were as follows: Revenue 775.8 411.7 152.7 1,340.2 Segment operating profit 207.8 96.8 40.3 344.9 Finance income 2.3 2.6 Finance costs 2.3 13.2 Profit before income tax 334.3 Income tax expense 3 95.4 Profit for the year 238.9 No single customer contributed more than 10% of the Groups revenue in the current or prior year.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP EBITA to IFRS statutory operating profit Non-GAAP EBITA 219.1 106.1 41.2 366.4 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 10.8 5.4 0.9 17.1 Acquisition-related items 0.5 3.9 4.4 Operating profit 207.8 96.8 40.3 344.9 EBITA measure Earnings before interest, tax and adjustments excludes the effects of: amortisation of acquired intangible assets: amortisation of software development expenditure: and acquisition-related items.
Europe Americas AAMEA Group Year ended 30 September 2011 Note m m m m The results by segment from continuing operations were as follows: Revenue 795.7 390.9 147.5 1,334.1 Segment operating profit 213.7 94.2 35.4 343.3 Finance income 2.3 1.9 Finance costs 2.3 14.4 Profit before income tax 330.8 Income tax expense 3 74.8 Profit for the year 256.0 88 Results for the year continued Year ended 30 September 2011 1 Segment information continued Europe Americas AAMEA Group Reconciliation of Non-GAAP EBITA to IFRS statutory operating profit m m m m 1.2 Profit by segment Non-GAAP EBITA 229.3 99.7 36.5 365.5 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 15.3 5.5 0.9 21.7 Year ended 30 September 2012 Year ended 30 September 2011 Change Amortisation of software development expenditure 0.1 0.1 Underlying Underlying IFRS IFRS Non-GAAP IFRS Non-GAAP Acquisition-related items 0.2 0.2 0.4 Non-GAAP statutory statutory Non-GAAP EBITA statutory EBITA Operating profit 213.7 94.2 35.4 343.3 Currency operating Non-GAAP operating EBITA constant operating EBITA constant 1 1 2 profit Adjustment EBITA profit Adjustment reported impact currency profit reported currency m m m m m m m m % % % 1.3 Assets and liabilities by segment Profit by segment Europe Americas AAMEA Group Year ended 30 September 2012 Note m m m m Europe 207.8 11.3 219.1 213.7 15.6 229.3 8.4 220.9 -3% -4% -1% The assets and liabilities by segment were as follows: Americas 96.8 9.3 106.1 94.2 5.5 99.7 1.2 100.9 3% 6% 5% Segment assets 1,109.8 1,248.8 114.7 2,473.3 AAMEA 40.3 0.9 41.2 35.4 1.1 36.5 2.3 34.2 14% 13% 20% Segment liabilities 502.7 315.0 83.4 901.1 Total profit 344.9 21.5 366.4 343.3 22.2 365.5 9.5 356.0 0% 0% 3% Segment net assets 607.1 933.8 31.3 1,572.2 1 Adjustment includes the effects of amortisation of acquired intangible assets, amortisation of software development expenditure and acquisition-related items.
Unallocated liabilities 2 Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2011 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2012 of $1.58 1 and 1.22 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Corporate borrowings 199.2 Total net assets 1,373.0 Europe Americas AAMEA Group Year ended 30 September 2012 Note m m m m Other segment information by segment was as follows: The results by segment from continuing operations were as follows: Capital expenditure property, plant and equipment 6 11.1 5.1 3.1 19.3 Revenue 775.8 411.7 152.7 1,340.2 Capital expenditure intangible assets 5.2 5.3 5.5 10.8 Segment operating profit 207.8 96.8 40.3 344.9 Depreciation 6 13.8 5.7 2.2 21.7 Finance income 2.3 2.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 5.2 13.1 11.6 0.9 25.6 Finance costs 2.3 13.2 Other non-cash expenses share-based payments 14.2 1.2 0.2 0.3 1.3 Profit before income tax 334.3 Segment assets include all intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents and tax assets.
Income tax expense 3 95.4 Segment liabilities comprise mainly trade and other payables, deferred income, post-employment benefit obligations, tax liabilities, financial instruments and Profit for the year 238.9 certain borrowings that can be attributed to the segment but exclude borrowings that are for general corporate purposes.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
No single customer contributed more than 10% of the Groups revenue in the current or prior year.
Europe Americas AAMEA Group Year ended 30 September 2011 Note m m m m Reconciliation of Non-GAAP EBITA to IFRS statutory operating profit The assets and liabilities by segment were as follows: Non-GAAP EBITA 219.1 106.1 41.2 366.4 Segment assets 1,261.4 1,111.7 119.1 2,492.2 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 10.8 5.4 0.9 17.1 Segment liabilities 518.1 204.4 73.4 795.9 Acquisition-related items 0.5 3.9 4.4 Segment net assets 743.3 907.3 45.7 1,696.3 Operating profit 207.8 96.8 40.3 344.9 Unallocated liabilities EBITA measure Earnings before interest, tax and adjustments excludes the effects of: Non-current assets classified as held for sale 15.4 251.1 amortisation of acquired intangible assets: amortisation of software development expenditure: and Non-current liabilities classified as held for sale 15.4 49.7 acquisition-related items.
Corporate borrowings 189.9 Total net assets 1,707.8 Europe Americas AAMEA Group Year ended 30 September 2011 Note m m m m Other segment information by segment was as follows: The results by segment from continuing operations were as follows: Capital expenditure property, plant and equipment 6 14.9 8.2 2.4 25.5 Revenue 795.7 390.9 147.5 1,334.1 Capital expenditure intangible assets 5.2 2.5 6.8 9.3 Segment operating profit 213.7 94.2 35.4 343.3 Depreciation 6 14.0 5.6 2.2 21.8 Finance income 2.3 1.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 5.2 17.2 10.0 0.9 28.1 Finance costs 2.3 14.4 Other non-cash expenses share-based payments 14.2 2.0 0.8 0.4 3.2 Profit before income tax 330.8 Income tax expense 3 74.8 Profit for the year 256.0 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 89 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Results for the year continued 2 Profit before income tax 2.1 Operating profit Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations 2012 2012 2011 2011 The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit Note m m m m Staff costs 2.2 610.0 7.2 611.6 66.7 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense included in cost of sales 7.1 12.0 1.5 12.7 9.0 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 6 21.7 21.8 0.7 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding amortisation of development expenditure 5.2 25.6 28.0 8.7 Amortisation of development expenditure 5.2 0.1 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 12.1 0.2 0.2 2.5 Profit on disposal of intangible assets 12.1 1.4 1.3 Other operating lease rentals payable 6 30.9 30.0 1.9 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 2.1 2.3 0.1 Net foreign exchange losses 0.2 0.4 Acquisition-related items 4.4 0.4 Research and development expenditure 159.4 1.6 151.9 14.0 Services provided by the Groups auditor and network firms During the year, the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor at costs as detailed below: 2012 2011 m m Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of parent Company and consolidated accounts 1.9 2.0 Fees payable to the Groups auditor for audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.2 Total audit fees 2.0 2.2 Tax compliance services 0.6 1.4 Tax advisory services 0.1 Other non-audit services 0.1 Total fees 2.8 3.6 The total audit fee for the Group, including the audit of overseas subsidiaries, was 2.0m 2011: 2.2m.
The Boards policy in respect of the procurement of non-audit services for the Groups auditor is set out on page 56.
2.2 Employees and directors Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations 2012 2012 2011 2011 Average monthly number of people employed including directors number number number number By geographical location: Europe 7,992 7,806 Americas 3,066 98 2,754 1,180 AAMEA 2,037 1,825 13,095 98 12,385 1,180 90 Results for the year continued Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued 2 Profit before income tax operations operations operations operations 2012 2012 2011 2011 2.1 Operating profit Staff costs including directors on service contracts Note number number number number Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued Wages and salaries 499.9 6.3 502.7 55.1 operations operations operations operations 2012 2012 2011 2011 Social security costs 96.9 0.9 93.9 10.3 The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit Note m m m m Post-employment benefits 8 11.9 0.1 11.8 1.2 Staff costs 2.2 610.0 7.2 611.6 66.7 Share-based payments 14.2 1.3 0.1 3.2 0.1 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense included in cost of sales 7.1 12.0 1.5 12.7 9.0 610.0 7.2 611.6 66.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 6 21.7 21.8 0.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 2012 2011 excluding amortisation of development expenditure 5.2 25.6 28.0 8.7 Key management compensation m m Amortisation of development expenditure 5.2 0.1 Salaries and short-term employee benefits 5.0 7.3 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 12.1 0.2 0.2 2.5 Post-employment benefits 0.5 1.0 Profit on disposal of intangible assets 12.1 1.4 1.3 Share-based payments 0.7 1.7 Other operating lease rentals payable 6 30.9 30.0 1.9 6.2 10.0 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 2.1 2.3 0.1 The key management figures given above include directors.
Key management personnel are deemed to be members of the Executive Committee as shown Net foreign exchange losses 0.2 0.4 on page 19.
Acquisition-related items 4.4 0.4 Research and development expenditure 159.4 1.6 151.9 14.0 2.3 Finance income and costs 2012 2011 Services provided by the Groups auditor and network firms m m During the year, the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor at costs as detailed below: Finance income: interest income on short-term deposits 2.6 1.9 2012 2011 m m Finance costs: Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of parent Company and consolidated accounts 1.9 2.0 Finance costs on bank borrowings 3.0 4.3 Fees payable to the Groups auditor for audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.2 Finance costs on US senior loan notes 8.6 8.7 Total audit fees 2.0 2.2 Amortisation of issue costs 1.1 1.4 Tax compliance services 0.6 1.4 Imputed interest on put and call arrangement to acquire non-controlling interest and deferred consideration 0.5 Tax advisory services 0.1 Finance costs 13.2 14.4 Other non-audit services 0.1 Total fees 2.8 3.6 Finance costs net 10.6 12.5 The total audit fee for the Group, including the audit of overseas subsidiaries, was 2.0m 2011: 2.2m.
3 Income tax expense The Boards policy in respect of the procurement of non-audit services for the Groups auditor is set out on page 56.
2012 2011 Analysis of charge in the year Note m m 2.2 Employees and directors Current tax Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued Current tax on profit for the year 115.4 110.5 operations operations operations operations 2012 2012 2011 2011 Adjustment in respect of prior years 15.0 37.5 Average monthly number of people employed including directors number number number number Current tax 100.4 73.0 By geographical location: Europe 7,992 7,806 Deferred tax Americas 3,066 98 2,754 1,180 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.0 AAMEA 2,037 1,825 Adjustment in respect of prior years 5.0 3.8 13,095 98 12,385 1,180 Deferred tax 9 5.0 1.8 Income tax expense 95.4 74.8 The majority of the current tax adjustment in respect of prior years of 15.0m 2011: 37.5m reflects the resolution of a number of historical tax matters with the tax authorities.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 91 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Results for the year continued 3 Income tax expense continued 2012 2011 Note m m Tax on items credited to other comprehensive income Deferred tax credit on actuarial loss on post-employment benefit obligations 1.0 Tax on items charged to equity Deferred tax charge on share options 1.7 1.7 Total tax on items charged to other comprehensive income equity 14.5 0.7 1.7 The tax for the year is higher 2011: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 25% 2011: 27% 2012 2011 The differences are explained below: m m Profit on ordinary activities before income tax 334.3 330.8 Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 25% 2011: 27% 83.6 89.3 Tax effects of: Adjustment in respect of prior years 20.0 33.7 Adjustment in respect of foreign tax rates 21.0 17.4 Non-deductible expenses and permanent items net of non-taxable income and other credits 10.8 1.8 Total income tax 95.4 74.8 4 Earnings per share and dividends 4.1 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury shares note 14.5, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Group has two classes of dilutive potential ordinary shares: those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and the contingently issuable shares under the Groups long-term incentive plan.
For performance-related share plans, a calculation is performed to determine the satisfaction, or otherwise, of the forecast performance conditions at the end of the reporting period, and the number of shares which would be issued based on the forecast status at the end of the reporting period.
Underlying Underlying Statutory Statutory Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares 2012 2011 2012 2011 Earnings m Profit for the year from continuing operations 254.6 267.0 238.9 256.0 Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 1.2 11.3 57.8 67.0 255.8 278.3 296.7 189.0 Number of shares millions Weighted average number of shares 1,282.2 1,316.7 1,282.2 1,316.7 Dilutive effects of shares 1.9 10.4 1.9 10.4 1,284.1 1,327.1 1,284.1 1,327.1 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share pence Continuing operations 19.86 20.28 18.63 19.44 Discontinued operations 0.09 0.86 4.51 5.09 19.95 21.14 23.14 14.35 Diluted earnings per share pence Continuing operations 19.83 20.12 18.60 19.29 Discontinued operations 0.09 0.85 4.50 5.05 19.92 20.97 23.10 14.24 92 Results for the year continued 2012 2011 3 Income tax expense continued Reconciliation between statutory and underlying earnings per share m m 2012 2011 IFRS statutory profit for the year from continuing operations 238.9 256.0 Note m m Adjustments: Tax on items credited to other comprehensive income Earnings trading from discontinued operations 1.9 18.9 Deferred tax credit on actuarial loss on post-employment benefit obligations 1.0 Intangible amortisation excluding amortisation of computer software 17.1 21.8 Tax on items charged to equity Acquisition-related items 4.4 0.4 Deferred tax charge on share options 1.7 1.7 Imputed interest on put and call arrangement to acquire non-controlling interest and deferred consideration 0.5 Total tax on items charged to other comprehensive income equity 14.5 0.7 1.7 Taxation on adjustments 7.0 11.3 The tax for the year is higher 2011: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 25% 2011: 27% Net adjustments 16.9 29.8 2012 2011 The differences are explained below: m m Earnings underlying before exchange movement 255.8 285.8 Profit on ordinary activities before income tax 334.3 330.8 Exchange movement 9.8 Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 25% 2011: 27% 83.6 89.3 Taxation on exchange movement 2.3 Tax effects of: Net exchange movement 7.5 Adjustment in respect of prior years 20.0 33.7 Earnings underlying after exchange movement 255.8 278.3 Adjustment in respect of foreign tax rates 21.0 17.4 Exchange movement relates to the retranslation of prior year results to current year exchange rates as shown in the table on page 28 within the financial review.
Non-deductible expenses and permanent items net of non-taxable income and other credits 10.8 1.8 Total income tax 95.4 74.8 4.2 Dividends 2012 2011 4 Earnings per share and dividends m m Final dividend paid for the year ended 30 September 2011 of 7.07p per share 92.1 4.1 Earnings per share 2011: final dividend paid for the year ended 30 September 2010 of 5.22p per share 68.7 Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury shares note 14.5, which are treated as cancelled.
Interim dividend paid for the year ended 30 September 2012 of 3.48p per share 44.4 For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary 2011: interim dividend paid for the year ended 30 September 2011 of 2.68p per share 35.3 shares.
The Group has two classes of dilutive potential ordinary shares: those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the 136.5 104.0 average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and the contingently issuable shares under the Groups long-term incentive plan.
For performance-related share plans, a calculation is performed to determine the satisfaction, or otherwise, of the forecast performance conditions at the In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2012 of 6.67p per share which will absorb an end of the reporting period, and the number of shares which would be issued based on the forecast status at the end of the reporting period.
It will be paid on 8 March 2013 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 15 February 2013.
These Underlying Underlying Statutory Statutory financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares 2012 2011 2012 2011 Earnings m Profit for the year from continuing operations 254.6 267.0 238.9 256.0 Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 1.2 11.3 57.8 67.0 255.8 278.3 296.7 189.0 Number of shares millions Weighted average number of shares 1,282.2 1,316.7 1,282.2 1,316.7 Dilutive effects of shares 1.9 10.4 1.9 10.4 1,284.1 1,327.1 1,284.1 1,327.1 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share pence Continuing operations 19.86 20.28 18.63 19.44 Discontinued operations 0.09 0.86 4.51 5.09 19.95 21.14 23.14 14.35 Diluted earnings per share pence Continuing operations 19.83 20.12 18.60 19.29 Discontinued operations 0.09 0.85 4.50 5.05 19.92 20.97 23.10 14.24 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 93 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Operating assets and liabilities 5 Intangible assets 5.1 Goodwill 2012 2011 Note m m Cost at 1 October 1,736.3 2,031.1 Additions 16.9 150.0 0.7 Disposals 16.9 1.3 Reclassification to assets held for sale 15.4 304.6 Exchange movement 71.9 10.4 At 30 September 1,814.4 1,736.3 Impairment at 1 October Impairment in the year 15.2 121.5 Reclassification to assets held for sale 15.4 121.5 At 30 September Net book amount at 30 September 1,814.4 1,736.3 Details of acquisitions and disposals in the year are shown in note 16.
During the year, goodwill was reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
For the purposes of this impairment review, goodwill for continuing operations has been valued on the basis of discounted future cash flows arising in each relevant cash-generating unit.
In the prior year an agreement to sell Sage Software Healthcare, LLC was reached, resulting in an impairment loss on goodwill of 121.5m.
Goodwill impairment tests Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to one or more cash-generating units CGUs.
CGUs represent the operations of a country or, in more material operations, divisions within a country.
During the year new CGUs were created for Brazil, Sage Pay Europe previously reported in UK & Ireland and Portugal previously reported in France.
The following table shows the allocation of the carrying value of goodwill at the end of the reporting period by CGU: 2012 2011 m m France 253.7 272.6 UK & Ireland 195.4 195.3 Spain 124.2 134.2 Sage Pay Europe 27.4 17.0 Germany 25.2 27.2 Switzerland 33.6 35.9 Poland 6.4 6.5 Portugal 4.7 5.1 North America Sage Business Solutions Division 765.2 793.7 Sage Payment Solutions Division 156.6 160.6 Brazil 133.5 South Africa 44.0 42.4 Australia 24.2 25.7 Asia 20.3 20.1 1,814.4 1,736.3 The main movement in goodwill by CGU was the acquisition of Folhamatic Tecnologia em Sistemas S. A. Folhamatic in Brazil: the majority of all other movements compared to prior year were due to the impact of foreign currency exchange movements.
94 Operating assets and liabilities The Group conducts annual impairment tests on the carrying value of goodwill, based on the recoverable amount of CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated.
5 Intangible assets The recoverable amounts of CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations are the discount rate 5.1 Goodwill applied, the long-term operating margin EBITA and the long-term growth rate of net operating cash flows.
In all cases, the approved budget for the following 2012 2011 financial year formed the basis for the cash flow projections for a CGU.
The approved cash flow projections in the four financial years following the budget year Note m m reflected managements expectations of the medium-term operating performance of the CGU and growth prospects in the CGUs market.
Cost at 1 October 1,736.3 2,031.1 The discount rate applied to a CGU represents a pre-tax rate that reflects the market assessment of the time value of money at the end of the reporting period Additions 16.9 150.0 0.7 and the risks specific to the CGU.
Disposals 16.9 1.3 The long-term operating margin assumed for a CGUs operations is primarily based on past performance.
For some CGUs, those for which management Reclassification to assets held for sale 15.4 304.6 has strong reason to believe that past operating margins are not indicative of future operating margins, expected future improvements are also included in Exchange movement 71.9 10.4 managements assessment of the long-term operating margin.
The long-term operating margin applied to CGUs was in the range of 21% 2011: 21% to At 30 September 1,814.4 1,736.3 62% 2011: 50%.
Long-term growth rates of net operating cash flows are assumed equal to the long-term growth rate in the gross domestic product of the country in which Impairment at 1 October the CGUs operations are undertaken and were in the range of 1.8% 2011: 1.6% to 5.5% 2011: 5.5%.
Impairment in the year 15.2 121.5 Goodwill impairment tests were conducted separately for each CGU.
Reclassification to assets held for sale 15.4 121.5 Sensitivity to changes in assumptions At 30 September Management believes that no reasonable potential change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of any CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
Net book amount at 30 September 1,814.4 1,736.3 The value-in-use calculations are sensitive to changes in discount rates.
The discount rates used are based on estimated weighted average costs of capital in each country before tax and reflect specific risks relating to the relevant CGUs.
Details of acquisitions and disposals in the year are shown in note 16.
For the purposes of this impairment review, goodwill for continuing operations has been valued on the basis of discounted future cash flows arising in each relevant The largest CGU is Sage Business Solutions Division, which constitutes approximately 42% of the carrying value of goodwill at the end of the reporting period.
The discount rates applied to this CGU would have to increase by 54% to result in a value-in-use equal to the carrying value of the goodwill.
This assumes all other key assumptions applied within the value-in-use calculations remain constant.
Goodwill impairment tests 5.2 Other intangible assets Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to one or more cash-generating units CGUs.
CGUs represent the operations of a country or, in more Acquired Internal Computer Customer material operations, divisions within a country.
Brands Technology IPR&D IPR&D software relationships Total m m m m m m m During the year new CGUs were created for Brazil, Sage Pay Europe previously reported in UK & Ireland and Portugal previously reported in France.
The Cost at 1 October 2011 35.9 81.9 0.4 5.6 52.5 108.2 284.5 following table shows the allocation of the carrying value of goodwill at the end of the reporting period by CGU: Continuing operations 2012 2011 Additions 6.9 3.9 10.8 m m Acquisition of subsidiaries 6.8 20.5 0.6 14.3 42.2 France 253.7 272.6 Disposals 5.2 5.2 UK & Ireland 195.4 195.3 Exchange movement 2.2 4.5 1.9 5.2 13.8 Spain 124.2 134.2 At 30 September 2012 40.5 97.9 0.4 5.6 52.9 121.2 318.5 Sage Pay Europe 27.4 17.0 Germany 25.2 27.2 Accumulated amortisation at 1 October 2011 16.3 61.2 0.4 5.6 10.8 72.1 166.4 Switzerland 33.6 35.9 Continuing operations Poland 6.4 6.5 Charge for the year 3.1 6.6 8.5 7.4 25.6 Portugal 4.7 5.1 Disposals 5.1 5.1 North America Exchange movement 1.0 3.5 0.3 3.4 8.2 Sage Business Solutions Division 765.2 793.7 At 30 September 2012 18.4 64.3 0.4 5.6 13.9 76.1 178.7 Sage Payment Solutions Division 156.6 160.6 Brazil 133.5 Net book amount at 30 September 2012 22.1 33.6 39.0 45.1 139.8 South Africa 44.0 42.4 Australia 24.2 25.7 Asia 20.3 20.1 1,814.4 1,736.3 The main movement in goodwill by CGU was the acquisition of Folhamatic Tecnologia em Sistemas S. A. Folhamatic in Brazil: the majority of all other movements compared to prior year were due to the impact of foreign currency exchange movements.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 95 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Operating assets and liabilities continued 5 Intangible assets continued 5.2 Other intangible assets continued Acquired Internal Computer Customer Brands Technology IPR&D IPR&D software relationships Total m m m m m m m Cost at 1 October 2010 43.9 96.5 0.4 5.6 66.2 152.7 365.3 Continuing operations Additions 4.0 5.3 9.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 Disposals 6.9 6.9 Exchange movement 0.3 0.7 0.7 1.1 Discontinued operations Additions 1.9 0.8 2.7 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held for sale 8.0 16.2 12.5 50.5 87.2 At 30 September 2011 35.9 81.9 0.4 5.6 52.5 108.2 284.5 Accumulated amortisation at 1 October 2010 16.4 60.1 0.3 5.5 20.3 83.6 186.2 Continuing operations Charge for the year 2.2 9.6 0.1 0.1 6.3 9.8 28.1 Disposals 6.6 6.6 Exchange movement 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.8 1.1 Discontinued operations Charge for the year 0.6 2.0 1.2 4.9 8.7 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held for sale 3.1 10.3 10.6 27.0 51.0 At 30 September 2011 16.3 61.2 0.4 5.6 10.8 72.1 166.4 Net book amount at 30 September 2011 19.6 20.7 41.7 36.1 118.1 All amortisation charges relating to continuing operations in the year have been charged through selling and administrative expenses.
Intangible assets other than internally generated IPR&D and computer software relate to identifiable assets purchased as part of the Groups business combinations.
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful economic life.
96 Operating assets and liabilities continued 5 Intangible assets continued 6 Property, plant and equipment Motor vehicles 5.2 Other intangible assets continued Land and Plant and and office Acquired Internal Computer Customer buildings equipment equipment Total Brands Technology IPR&D IPR&D software relationships Total m m m m m m m m m m m Cost at 1 October 2011 98.2 141.4 56.4 296.0 Cost at 1 October 2010 43.9 96.5 0.4 5.6 66.2 152.7 365.3 Continuing operations Continuing operations Additions 2.4 11.3 5.6 19.3 Additions 4.0 5.3 9.3 Disposals 0.4 8.2 4.5 13.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.1 1.0 0.4 1.5 Disposals 6.9 6.9 Exchange movement 0.8 3.6 2.6 7.0 Exchange movement 0.3 0.7 0.7 1.1 At 30 September 2012 99.5 141.9 55.3 296.7 Discontinued operations Additions 1.9 0.8 2.7 Accumulated depreciation at 1 October 2011 10.4 101.2 38.0 149.6 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Continuing operations Reclassification to non-current assets Charge for the year 3.8 11.9 6.0 21.7 classified as held for sale 8.0 16.2 12.5 50.5 87.2 Disposals 0.2 8.0 4.1 12.3 At 30 September 2011 35.9 81.9 0.4 5.6 52.5 108.2 284.5 Exchange movement 0.2 2.6 1.7 4.5 At 30 September 2012 13.8 102.5 38.2 154.5 Accumulated amortisation at 1 October 2010 16.4 60.1 0.3 5.5 20.3 83.6 186.2 Continuing operations Net book amount at 30 September 2012 85.7 39.4 17.1 142.2 Charge for the year 2.2 9.6 0.1 0.1 6.3 9.8 28.1 Disposals 6.6 6.6 Exchange movement 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.8 1.1 Discontinued operations Charge for the year 0.6 2.0 1.2 4.9 8.7 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held for sale 3.1 10.3 10.6 27.0 51.0 At 30 September 2011 16.3 61.2 0.4 5.6 10.8 72.1 166.4 Net book amount at 30 September 2011 19.6 20.7 41.7 36.1 118.1 All amortisation charges relating to continuing operations in the year have been charged through selling and administrative expenses.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 97 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Operating assets and liabilities continued 6 Property, plant and equipment continued Motor vehicles Land and Plant and and office buildings equipment equipment Total m m m m Cost at 1 October 2010 100.3 151.4 61.6 313.3 Continuing operations Additions 18.6 6.9 25.5 Disposals 0.7 23.4 10.1 34.2 Acquisition disposal of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Exchange movement 0.4 0.7 0.4 0.7 Discontinued operations Additions 0.6 0.6 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held for sale 1.8 4.7 1.5 8.0 At 30 September 2011 98.2 141.5 56.5 296.2 Accumulated depreciation at 1 October 2010 10.0 109.5 44.2 163.7 Continuing operations Charge for the year 1.9 14.5 5.4 21.8 Disposals 0.7 18.4 10.2 29.3 Exchange movement 0.1 0.6 0.3 0.8 Discontinued operations Charge for the year 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.7 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held for sale 1.0 3.9 1.2 6.1 At 30 September 2011 10.4 101.3 38.1 149.8 Net book amount at 30 September 2011 87.8 40.2 18.4 146.4 Depreciation expenses from continuing operations of 21.7m 2011: 21.8m have been charged through selling and administrative expenses note 2.1.
Lease rentals amounting to 30.9m 2011: 30.0m relating to the lease of plant and machinery and property have also been charged through selling and administrative expenses note 2.1.
2012 2011 Assets held under finance leases have the following net book amount: m m Cost 3.9 3.6 Accumulated depreciation 1.7 1.1 Net book amount 2.2 2.5 Included in assets held under finance leases are plant and equipment with a net book amount of 2.1m 2011: 2.4m and vehicles 0.1m 2011: 0.1m.
98 Operating assets and liabilities continued 6 Property, plant and equipment continued 7 Working capital Motor vehicles 7.1 Inventories Land and Plant and and office buildings equipment equipment Total 2012 2011 m m m m m m Cost at 1 October 2010 100.3 151.4 61.6 313.3 Materials 0.6 0.7 Continuing operations Finished goods 1.9 1.8 Additions 18.6 6.9 25.5 2.5 2.5 Disposals 0.7 23.4 10.1 34.2 The Group consumed 12.0m 2011: 12.7m of inventories, included in cost of sales, during the year.
There was no material write down of inventories during the Acquisition disposal of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 current or prior year.
Exchange movement 0.4 0.7 0.4 0.7 7.2 Trade and other receivables Discontinued operations 2012 2011 Additions 0.6 0.6 Amounts falling due within one year: m m Disposals 0.2 0.2 Trade receivables 300.5 279.6 Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held for sale 1.8 4.7 1.5 8.0 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 30.3 29.2 At 30 September 2011 98.2 141.5 56.5 296.2 Trade receivables net 270.2 250.4 Other receivables 14.9 14.7 Accumulated depreciation at 1 October 2010 10.0 109.5 44.2 163.7 Prepayments and accrued income 17.7 20.3 Continuing operations 302.8 285.4 Charge for the year 1.9 14.5 5.4 21.8 The Groups credit risk on trade and other receivables is primarily attributable to trade receivables.
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk Disposals 0.7 18.4 10.2 29.3 since the risk is spread over a large number of unrelated counterparties.
The directors estimate that the carrying value of financial assets within trade and other Exchange movement 0.1 0.6 0.3 0.8 receivables approximated their fair value.
Discontinued operations The Group considers the credit quality of trade and other receivables by geographical location.
The Group considers that the carrying value of the trade and other Charge for the year 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.7 receivables that is disclosed below gives a fair presentation of the credit quality of the assets.
This is considered to be the case as there is a low risk of default Disposals 0.2 0.2 due to the high number of recurring customers and credit control policies: thus the carrying value is expected to be the final value received.
Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held for sale 1.0 3.9 1.2 6.1 At 30 September 2011 10.4 101.3 38.1 149.8 2012 2011 Trade and other receivables by geographical location: m m Europe 203.2 199.8 Net book amount at 30 September 2011 87.8 40.2 18.4 146.4 Americas 62.4 49.7 Depreciation expenses from continuing operations of 21.7m 2011: 21.8m have been charged through selling and administrative expenses note 2.1.
AAMEA 19.5 15.6 Lease rentals amounting to 30.9m 2011: 30.0m relating to the lease of plant and machinery and property have also been charged through selling and 285.1 265.1 administrative expenses note 2.1.
2012 2011 2012 2011 Assets held under finance leases have the following net book amount: m m Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: m m Cost 3.9 3.6 At 1 October 29.2 27.4 Accumulated depreciation 1.7 1.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.5 Net book amount 2.2 2.5 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.5 Increase in provision for receivables impairment 9.9 9.3 Included in assets held under finance leases are plant and equipment with a net book amount of 2.1m 2011: 2.4m and vehicles 0.1m 2011: 0.1m.
Receivables written-off during the year as uncollectible 3.3 4.5 Unused amounts reversed 4.1 2.2 Exchange movement 1.9 0.2 Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held for sale 0.1 At 30 September 30.3 29.2 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 99 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Operating assets and liabilities continued 7 Working capital continued 7.2 Trade and other receivables continued In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers the ageing of each receivable and any change in the circumstances of the individual receivables.
The directors believe that there is no further provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in selling and administrative expenses in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written-off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
At 30 September 2012, trade receivables of 36.4m 2011: 33.0m were either partially or fully impaired.
2012 2011 The ageing of these receivables was as follows: m m Not due 3.7 3.5 Less than six months past due 7.7 7.7 More than six months past due 25.0 21.8 36.4 33.0 Trade receivables which were past their due date but not impaired at 30 September 2012 were 44.8m 2011: 54.9m.
2012 2011 The ageing of these receivables was as follows: m m Less than six months past due 41.0 49.5 More than six months past due 3.8 5.4 44.8 54.9 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the fair value of each class of receivables mentioned above.
The Group held no collateral as security.
The directors estimate that the carrying value of trade receivables approximated their fair value.
7.3 Trade and other payables 2012 2011 m m Trade payables 40.2 47.5 Other tax and social security payable 64.3 65.0 Other payables 31.3 24.2 Accruals 123.2 124.5 259.0 261.2 7.4 Deferred income 2012 2011 m m Deferred income 420.3 404.7 Revenue not recognised in the income statement under the Group accounting policy for revenue recognition is classified as deferred income in the balance sheet to be recognised in future periods.
100 Operating assets and liabilities continued 7 Working capital continued 8 Post-employment benefits The Group has established a number of pension schemes around the world covering many of its employees.
All of these schemes are defined contribution 7.2 Trade and other receivables continued schemes with the exception of a small defined benefit pension scheme in Switzerland and another post-employment defined benefit scheme in France.
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers the ageing of each receivable and any change in the circumstances of the individual Under French legislation, the Group is required to make one-off payments to employees in France who reach retirement age while still in employment.
2012 2011 Pension costs Note m m The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in selling and administrative expenses in the income statement.
Defined contribution schemes 10.0 9.8 Defined benefit plans 1.9 2.0 At 30 September 2012, trade receivables of 36.4m 2011: 33.0m were either partially or fully impaired.
2.2 11.9 11.8 2012 2011 The ageing of these receivables was as follows: m m Defined benefit plans Not due 3.7 3.5 The most recent actuarial valuations of the post-employment benefit plans were performed by Ernst & Young in October 2012.
Less than six months past due 7.7 7.7 2012 2011 More than six months past due 25.0 21.8 Weighted average principal assumptions made by the actuaries % % 36.4 33.0 Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 2.90 2.80 Trade receivables which were past their due date but not impaired at 30 September 2012 were 44.8m 2011: 54.9m.
Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 0.00 0.00 Discount rate 2.80 2.80 2012 2011 The ageing of these receivables was as follows: m m Inflation assumption 1.50 1.60 Less than six months past due 41.0 49.5 Expected return on plan assets 2.10 2.50 More than six months past due 3.8 5.4 44.8 54.9 2012 2011 Mortality rate assumptions made by the actuaries years years The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the fair value of each class of receivables mentioned above.
The Group held no Average life expectancy for 65-year-old male 20.0 19.9 collateral as security.
Average life expectancy for 65-year-old female 24.7 24.4 7.3 Trade and other payables Average life expectancy for 45-year-old male 32.5 32.9 2012 2011 Average life expectancy for 45-year-old female 39.0 39.0 m m Trade payables 40.2 47.5 Other tax and social security payable 64.3 65.0 2012 2011 Amounts recognised in the balance sheet m m Other payables 31.3 24.2 Present value of funded obligations 30.8 29.5 Accruals 123.2 124.5 Fair value of plan assets 16.5 17.8 259.0 261.2 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 14.3 11.7 7.4 Deferred income The expected return on plan assets is based on market expectation at the beginning of the period for returns over the entire life of the benefit obligation.
2012 2011 m m 2012 2011 Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets m % m % Deferred income 420.3 404.7 Bonds 9.3 56.4 11.4 64.1 Revenue not recognised in the income statement under the Group accounting policy for revenue recognition is classified as deferred income in the balance sheet Equities 2.3 13.9 2.9 16.3 to be recognised in future periods.
Property 1.1 6.7 1.5 8.4 Other 3.8 23.0 2.0 11.2 16.5 100.0 17.8 100.0 The expected return on plan assets is determined by considering the expected returns available on the assets underlying the current investment policy.
Expected yields on fixed interest investments are based on gross redemption yields at the end of the reporting period.
Expected returns on equity and property investments reflect long-term real rates of return experienced in the respective markets.
Expected contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the year ending 30 September 2013 are 0.6m 2011: expected contributions year ending 30 September 2012 0.8m.
2012 2011 Amounts recognised in the income statement m m Interest cost 0.9 0.9 Expected return on plan assets 0.4 0.4 Current service cost 1.4 1.5 Total included within staff costs 1.9 2.0 The entire cost is included within selling and administrative expenses.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 101 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Operating assets and liabilities continued 8 Post-employment benefits continued 2012 2011 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation m m At 1 October 29.5 26.2 Exchange movement 2.2 1.4 Service cost 1.4 1.5 Plan participant contributions 0.7 0.7 Interest cost 0.9 0.9 Reclassification 0.3 Actuarial loss gain on benefit obligation 0.5 1.5 At 30 September 30.8 29.5 2012 2011 Changes in the fair value of plan assets m m At 1 October 17.8 14.9 Exchange movement 1.2 1.4 Expected return on plan assets 0.4 0.4 Employers contributions 0.9 0.9 Employees contributions 0.7 0.7 Actuarial loss on plan assets 2.1 0.5 At 30 September 16.5 17.8 2012 2011 Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet liability m m At 1 October 11.7 11.3 Exchange movement 1.0 Total expense as recognised in the income statement 1.9 2.0 Contributions paid 0.9 0.9 Reclassification 0.3 Actuarial loss gain 2.6 1.0 At 30 September 14.3 11.7 The reduction on plan assets was 1.7m 2011: 0.1m reduction.
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 History of experience gains and losses m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 30.8 29.5 26.2 31.7 20.0 Fair value of plan assets 16.5 17.8 14.9 19.9 16.1 Deficit 14.3 11.7 11.3 11.8 3.9 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 0.5 1.5 0.1 0.2 3.5 Experience adjustments on plan assets 2.1 0.5 0.2 0.5 0.7 2012 2011 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised outside profit or loss m m At 1 October 1.3 0.3 Actuarial losses gains recognised in the year before tax 2.6 1.0 At 30 September 1.3 1.3 102 Operating assets and liabilities continued 8 Post-employment benefits continued 9 Deferred income tax 2012 2011 Deferred income tax has been calculated at 23% 2011: 25% in respect of UK companies being the corporation tax rate at which timing differences Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation m m are expected to reverse and at the prevailing rates for the overseas subsidiaries.
At 1 October 29.5 26.2 The Finance Act 2012, which was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012, includes legislation reducing the main rate of UK corporation tax to 23% from Exchange movement 2.2 1.4 1 April 2013.
As such deferred tax balances at 30 September 2012 have been calculated using a rate of 23%.
Service cost 1.4 1.5 2012 2011 Plan participant contributions 0.7 0.7 The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below: m m Interest cost 0.9 0.9 At 1 October 6.0 29.2 Reclassification 0.3 Income statement credit charge 5.0 1.8 Actuarial loss gain on benefit obligation 0.5 1.5 Acquisition of subsidiaries 10.7 0.6 At 30 September 30.8 29.5 Income tax on discontinued operations 16.2 38.6 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 2012 2011 Other comprehensive income equity movement in deferred tax 0.7 1.7 Changes in the fair value of plan assets m m Transfer from current income tax liabilities 2.8 0.4 At 1 October 17.8 14.9 At 30 September 19.5 6.0 Exchange movement 1.2 1.4 Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is probable that Expected return on plan assets 0.4 0.4 these assets will be recovered.
These have been included within the Other category.
Employers contributions 0.9 0.9 Employees contributions 0.7 0.7 No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries.
As the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
Actuarial loss on plan assets 2.1 0.5 At 30 September 16.5 17.8 The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12, Income Taxes during the year are shown below.
2012 2011 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet liability m m Intangible At 1 October 11.7 11.3 assets Other Total Assets Exchange movement 1.0 m m m Total expense as recognised in the income statement 1.9 2.0 At 1 October 2011 21.6 42.3 20.7 Contributions paid 0.9 0.9 Income statement credit 0.1 0.7 0.8 Reclassification 0.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.2 0.1 0.1 Actuarial loss gain 2.6 1.0 Reclassification to deferred tax liability 10.9 15.8 4.9 At 30 September 14.3 11.7 Reclassification to other deferred tax 0.5 0.5 Income tax on discontinued operations 31.9 48.1 16.2 The reduction on plan assets was 1.7m 2011: 0.1m reduction.
Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 At 30 September 2012 1.2 11.2 10.0 History of experience gains and losses m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 30.8 29.5 26.2 31.7 20.0 Liabilities Fair value of plan assets 16.5 17.8 14.9 19.9 16.1 At 1 October 2011 21.6 6.9 14.7 Deficit 14.3 11.7 11.3 11.8 3.9 Income statement credit charge 6.0 1.8 4.2 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 0.5 1.5 0.1 0.2 3.5 Acquisition of subsidiaries 16.6 6.0 10.6 Experience adjustments on plan assets 2.1 0.5 0.2 0.5 0.7 Reclassification from deferred tax asset 10.9 15.8 4.9 Reclassification to other deferred tax 0.5 0.5 2012 2011 Exchange movement 1.9 1.9 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised outside profit or loss m m Other comprehensive income equity movement in deferred tax 0.7 0.7 At 1 October 1.3 0.3 Transfer from current income tax liabilities 2.8 2.8 Actuarial losses gains recognised in the year before tax 2.6 1.0 At 30 September 2012 19.9 9.6 29.5 At 30 September 1.3 1.3 Net deferred tax liability asset at 30 September 2012 21.1 1.6 19.5 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 103 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Operating assets and liabilities continued 9 Deferred income tax continued Intangible assets Other Total Assets m m m At 1 October 2010 1.2 11.6 10.4 Income statement charge 0.2 3.7 3.9 Reclassification from deferred tax liability 17.2 7.0 24.2 Reclassification to other deferred tax 3.8 3.8 Income tax on discontinued operations 6.4 45.0 38.6 Exchange movement 0.4 0.2 0.2 At 30 September 2011 21.6 42.3 20.7 Liabilities At 1 October 2010 42.5 2.9 39.6 Income statement credit charge 3.2 1.1 2.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.6 0.6 Reclassification to deferred tax asset 17.2 7.0 24.2 Reclassification to other deferred tax 0.4 0.4 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 Equity movement of deferred income tax 1.7 1.7 Transfer from current income tax liabilities 0.4 0.4 At 30 September 2011 21.6 6.9 14.7 Net deferred tax liability asset at 30 September 2011 43.2 49.2 6.0 The deferred tax liability due after more than one year is 19.9m 2011: 21.6m.
10 Operating lease commitments 2012 2011 Property, Property, vehicles, vehicles, plant and plant and equipment equipment Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases falling due for payment as follows: m m Within one year 36.9 35.6 Later than one year and less than five years 110.3 108.6 After five years 61.0 69.5 208.2 213.7 The Group leases various offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
These leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group also leases vehicles, plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
11 Contingent liabilities The Group had no contingent liabilities at 30 September 2012 2011: none.
104 Operating assets and liabilities continued Net debt and capital structure 9 Deferred income tax continued 12 Cash flow and net debt Intangible 12.1 Cash flow generated from continuing operations assets Other Total Assets m m m 2012 2011 Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash generated from continuing operations m m At 1 October 2010 1.2 11.6 10.4 Profit for the year 238.9 256.0 Income statement charge 0.2 3.7 3.9 Adjustments for: Reclassification from deferred tax liability 17.2 7.0 24.2 Income tax 95.4 74.8 Reclassification to other deferred tax 3.8 3.8 Finance income 2.6 1.9 Income tax on discontinued operations 6.4 45.0 38.6 Finance expenses 13.2 14.4 Exchange movement 0.4 0.2 0.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 25.6 28.1 At 30 September 2011 21.6 42.3 20.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 21.7 21.8 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 2.5 Liabilities Profit on disposal of intangible assets 1.4 1.3 At 1 October 2010 42.5 2.9 39.6 Equity-settled share-based transactions 1.3 3.2 Income statement credit charge 3.2 1.1 2.1 Exchange movement 4.4 2.7 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.6 0.6 Changes in working capital excluding effects of acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries Reclassification to deferred tax asset 17.2 7.0 24.2 Decrease in inventories 0.3 0.3 Reclassification to other deferred tax 0.4 0.4 Increase in trade and other receivables 16.0 34.0 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 1.0 14.0 Equity movement of deferred income tax 1.7 1.7 Increase in deferred income 12.6 29.9 Transfer from current income tax liabilities 0.4 0.4 Cash generated from continuing operations 383.8 405.1 At 30 September 2011 21.6 6.9 14.7 12.2 Net debt Net deferred tax liability asset at 30 September 2011 43.2 49.2 6.0 2012 2011 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt inclusive of finance leases m m The deferred tax liability due after more than one year is 19.9m 2011: 21.6m.
Decrease increase in cash in the year pre-exchange movements 124.6 113.6 Cash outflow from decrease in loans, finance leases and cash collected from customers 13.9 83.4 10 Operating lease commitments 2012 2011 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 138.5 197.0 Property, Property, Acquisitions 0.3 1.0 vehicles, vehicles, Non-cash movements 1.1 1.2 plant and plant and equipment equipment Exchange movement 3.3 1.9 Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases falling due for payment as follows: m m Movement in net debt in the year 136.6 194.9 Within one year 36.9 35.6 Net debt at 1 October 24.9 219.8 Later than one year and less than five years 110.3 108.6 Net debt at 30 September 161.5 24.9 After five years 61.0 69.5 Numerical financial instruments disclosures are set out below and also in note 13.
208.2 213.7 At At The Group leases various offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
These leases have various terms, escalation clauses and 1 October Non-cash Exchange 30 September renewal rights.
2011 Cash flow Acquisitions movements movement 2012 Analysis of change in net debt inclusive of finance leases m m m m m m 11 Contingent liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 182.8 118.2 3.0 61.6 The Group had no contingent liabilities at 30 September 2012 2011: none.
Bank overdrafts 0.8 6.4 7.2 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 182.0 124.6 3.0 54.4 Finance leases due within one year 0.9 0.7 0.2 0.8 1.2 Loans due after more than one year 190.0 14.8 0.1 1.1 6.8 199.2 Finance leases due after more than one year 2.4 0.8 1.6 Cash collected from customers 13.6 0.2 0.5 13.9 Total 24.9 138.5 0.3 1.1 3.3 161.5 Included in cash above is 13.9m 2011: 13.6m relating to cash collected from customers, which the Group is contracted to pay on to another party.
A liability for the same amount is included in trade and other payables on the balance sheet and is classified within net debt above.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 105 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Net debt and capital structure continued 12 Cash flow and net debt continued 12.3 Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts 2012 2011 m m Cash at bank and in hand 61.3 64.3 Short-term bank deposits 0.3 118.5 61.6 182.8 The effective interest rate on short-term deposits was 7.0% 2011: 0.7% and these deposits have an average maturity of 90 days 2011: 29 days.
The Groups credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because the counterparties are well established banks with high credit ratings.
12.4 Borrowings 2012 2011 Current m m Bank overdrafts 7.2 0.8 Finance lease obligations 1.2 0.9 8.4 1.7 2012 2011 Non-current m m US senior loan notes unsecured 185.3 189.9 Bank loans unsecured 13.9 0.1 Finance lease obligations 1.6 2.4 200.8 192.4 Included in loans above is 199.2m 2011: 190.0m of unsecured loans after unamortised issue costs.
These borrowings were taken out in connection with acquisitions.
The Group has US$300.0m 185.8m, 2011: 192.6m of US senior loan notes, which were issued into the US private placement market.
There were 15.0m drawings 2011: nil under the multi-currency revolving credit facility of 338.3m 2011: 358.3m expiring on 31 August 2015, which consists both of US$271.0m 167.8m, 2011: 174.0m and of 214.0m 170.5m, 2011: 184.3m tranches.
Unsecured bank loans were drawn in the following currencies: Sterling 15.0m 2011: nil, US Dollar nil 2011: nil, Euro nil 2011: 0.1m, which bear an average fixed interest rate of 1.73% 2011: 4.2%.
In the table above, bank loans and loan notes are stated net of unamortised issue costs of 1.6m 2011: 2.7m.
The Group has incurred total issue costs amounting to 4.4m 2011: 4.4m in respect of these facilities.
These issue costs were paid during the year ended 30 September 2010, no issue costs were incurred during the current financial year.
These costs are allocated to the income statement over the term of the facility using the effective interest method.
106 Net debt and capital structure continued 12 Cash flow and net debt continued 13 Financial instruments Numerical financial instruments disclosures are set out below and also in note 12.
12.3 Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts 2012 2011 13.1 Fair values of financial instruments m m For the following financial assets and liabilities: long-term borrowings, short-term borrowings, trade and other payables excluding tax and social security, trade Cash at bank and in hand 61.3 64.3 and other receivables excluding prepayments and accrued income, short-term bank deposits, cash at bank and in hand and other financial liabilities, the carrying Short-term bank deposits 0.3 118.5 amount approximates the fair value of the instrument with the exception of long-term borrowings due to these bearing interest at fixed rates which are currently higher than floating rates.
61.6 182.8 2012 2011 The effective interest rate on short-term deposits was 7.0% 2011: 0.7% and these deposits have an average maturity of 90 days 2011: 29 days.
Book Fair Book Fair The Groups credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because the counterparties are well established banks with high credit ratings.
value value value value Note m m m m 12.4 Borrowings Long-term borrowings 12.4 200.8 218.1 192.4 207.6 2012 2011 Current m m Fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities Bank overdrafts 7.2 0.8 Financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations: Finance lease obligations 1.2 0.9 Short-term borrowings 12.4 8.4 8.4 1.7 1.7 8.4 1.7 Trade and other payables excluding other tax and social security 7.3 194.7 194.7 196.2 196.2 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments and accrued income 7.2 285.1 285.1 265.1 265.1 Short-term bank deposits 12.3 0.3 0.3 118.5 118.5 2012 2011 Non-current m m Cash at bank and in hand 12.3 61.3 61.3 64.3 64.3 US senior loan notes unsecured 185.3 189.9 Other financial liabilities 13.5 128.3 128.3 50.0 50.0 Bank loans unsecured 13.9 0.1 13.2 Risk management Finance lease obligations 1.6 2.4 The Groups Treasury function seeks to reduce exposures to interest rate, foreign exchange and other financial risks, to ensure liquidity is available to meet the 200.8 192.4 foreseeable needs of the Group and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
The Group does not engage in speculative trading in financial instruments and Included in loans above is 199.2m 2011: 190.0m of unsecured loans after unamortised issue costs.
These borrowings were taken out in connection transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
The Groups treasury policies and procedures are periodically reviewed and approved by the with acquisitions.
Audit Committee and are subject to regular Group Internal Audit review.
These notes mature Capital risk US$200.0m 123.8m, 2011: 128.4m in 2015, US$50.0m 31.0m, 2011: 32.1m in 2016 and US$50.0m 31.0m, 2011: 32.1m in 2017 and carry interest The Groups objectives when managing capital defined as net debt note 12.2 plus equity are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern coupons of 4.39%, 4.78% and 5.15% respectively.
in order to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, while optimising return to shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt There were 15.0m drawings 2011: nil under the multi-currency revolving credit facility of 338.3m 2011: 358.3m expiring on 31 August 2015, which and equity funding.
The Group has net debt of 161.5m 2011: 24.9m and access to undrawn credit facilities of 323.3m 2011: 358.3m.
reviews net debt and its ratio to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA to ensure that it does not exceed the covenant contained within the Groups banking facilities and senior loan notes, being 3.0 times.
At 30 September 2012 this ratio was 0.4 times 2011: 0.1 times.
The Group manages Unsecured bank loans were drawn in the following currencies: Sterling 15.0m 2011: nil, US Dollar nil 2011: nil, Euro nil 2011: 0.1m, which bear its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, with respect to changes in economic conditions and the strategic objectives of the Group.
The Group have set a an average fixed interest rate of 1.73% 2011: 4.2%.
minimum leverage target of 1 times net debt to EBITDA and are working towards achieving this.
The Group has incurred total issue costs Liquidity risk amounting to 4.4m 2011: 4.4m in respect of these facilities.
These issue costs were paid during the year ended 30 September 2010, no issue costs were Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by incurred during the current financial year.
reviewing the cash resources required to meet its business objectives through both short and long-term cash flow forecasts.
The Group has committed facilities which are available to be drawn for general corporate purposes including working capital.
The Groups Treasury function has a policy of optimising the level of cash in the business in order to minimise external borrowings.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty may default on their obligation to the Group in relation to lending, settlement and other financial activities.
The Groups credit risk primarily arises from trade and other receivables.
The amounts included in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of cash flows.
The Group has a very low operational credit risk due to the transactions being principally of a high volume, low value and short maturity.
The Group has no significant concentration of operational credit risk, with the exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
Continued strong credit control ensured that in the year ended 30 September 2012 the Group did not see deterioration in days sales outstanding.
The credit risk on liquid funds is considered to be low, as the Audit Committee approved Group Treasury Policy limits the value that can be invested with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
All counterparties must meet minimum credit rating requirements.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 107 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Net debt and capital structure continued 13 Financial instruments continued Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on floating rate deposits and borrowings.
The US private placement loan notes, which comprises 93% of borrowings, are at fixed interest rates and bank debt, which comprises 7% of borrowings, are at floating interest rates.
At 30 September 2012, the Group had 61.6m 2011: 182.8m of cash and cash equivalents.
The Group regularly reviews forecast debt, cash and cash equivalents and interest rates to monitor this risk.
Interest rates on debt and deposits are fixed when management decides this is appropriate.
At 30 September 2012, the Groups principal borrowings comprised US private placement loan notes of 185.8m 2011: 192.6m, which have an average fixed interest rate of 4.58% and bank debt of 15.0m 2011: nil, which has an average floating interest rate of 1.73%.
Foreign currency risk Foreign exchange rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows will fluctuate because of the changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups foreign currency exposures are principally to the US Dollar and Euro.
Although a substantial proportion of the Groups revenue and profit is earned outside the UK, subsidiaries generally only trade in their own currency.
The Group is therefore not subject to any significant foreign exchange transactional exposure within these subsidiaries.
The Groups principal exposure to foreign currency, therefore, lies in the translation of overseas profits into Sterling.
This exposure is partly hedged to the extent that these profits are offset by interest charges in the same currency arising from the financing of the investment cost of overseas acquisitions by borrowings in the same currency.
The Group is also exposed to a foreign exchange transaction exposure from the conversion of surplus cash generated by its principal overseas subsidiaries, which would be hedged where appropriate.
The Groups US Dollar denominated borrowings are designated as a hedge of the net investment in its subsidiaries in the US.
The foreign exchange movements on translation of the borrowings into Sterling have been recognised in the translation reserve.
The Groups other currency exposures comprise only those exposures that give rise to net currency gains and losses to be recognised in the income statement.
Such exposures reflect the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the operating or functional currency of the entity involved.
At 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2012, these exposures were immaterial to the Group.
13.3 Maturity of financial liabilities The maturity profile of the undiscounted contractual amount of the Groups financial liabilities at 30 September was as follows: 2012 Trade and Other financial Borrowings other payables liabilities Total m m m m In less than one year 9.2 259.0 60.0 328.2 In more than one year but not more than two years 2.4 2.4 In more than two years but not more than five years 228.2 68.3 296.5 In more than five years 239.8 259.0 128.3 627.1 2011 Trade and Other financial Borrowings other payables liabilities Total m m m m In less than one year 2.6 261.2 50.0 313.8 In more than one year but not more than two years 3.4 3.4 In more than two years but not more than five years 155.6 155.6 In more than five years 83.5 83.5 245.1 261.2 50.0 556.3 13.4 Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 30 September in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 2012 2011 m m Expiring in more than two years but not more than five years 323.3 358.3 The facilities have been arranged to help finance the expansion of the Groups activities.
All these facilities incur commitment fees at market rates.
In addition, the Group maintains overdraft and uncommitted facilities to provide short-term flexibility and has also utilised the US private placement market.
108 Net debt and capital structure continued 13.5 Other financial liabilities 13 Financial instruments continued 2012 2011 Interest rate risk Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on floating rate deposits and borrowings.
The US private placement loan notes, which comprises 93% of borrowings, m m m m are at fixed interest rates and bank debt, which comprises 7% of borrowings, are at floating interest rates.
At 30 September 2012, the Group had 61.6m Current: Close period share buyback programme 60.0 50.0 2011: 182.8m of cash and cash equivalents.
Non-current: Put and call arrangement to acquire non-controlling interest 68.3 The Group regularly reviews forecast debt, cash and cash equivalents and interest rates to monitor this risk.
Interest rates on debt and deposits are fixed when Total other financial liabilities 128.3 50.0 management decides this is appropriate.
At 30 September 2012, the Groups principal borrowings comprised US private placement loan notes of 185.8m Current other financial liabilities relate to outstanding liabilities of 60.0m 2011: 50.0m arising under an irrevocable close period buyback agreement for the 2011: 192.6m, which have an average fixed interest rate of 4.58% and bank debt of 15.0m 2011: nil, which has an average floating interest rate of 1.73%.
purchase of the Companys own shares which was outstanding at 30 September.
The fair value has been calculated based on the value of the contractual legal Foreign currency risk agreement with Deutsche Bank AG, which is also equal to the book value.
Refer to note 18.1 for further details of the buyback.
Foreign exchange rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows will fluctuate because of the changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups foreign Non-current other financial liabilities relate to a put and call arrangement to acquire the remaining non-controlling interests 25% share in Folhamatic in Brazil currency exposures are principally to the US Dollar and Euro.
The liability is estimated at 71.0m 2011: nil, which is 68.3m 2011: nil after discounting to present value of the estimated redemption amount.
The Group The redemption amount is calculated based on a multiple of expected EBITDA for the year ending 31 December 2014. is therefore not subject to any significant foreign exchange transactional exposure within these subsidiaries.
The Groups principal exposure to foreign currency, The present value of the estimated redemption amount was initially recognised at 68.0m 2011: nil, movements on charging the discount of 0.3m 2011: nil therefore, lies in the translation of overseas profits into Sterling.
have been recognised within finance costs.
This exposure is partly hedged to the extent that these profits are offset by interest charges in the same currency arising from the financing of the investment 13.6 Sensitivity analysis cost of overseas acquisitions by borrowings in the same currency.
The Group is also exposed to a foreign exchange transaction exposure from the conversion Financial instruments affected by market risks include borrowings and deposits.
of surplus cash generated by its principal overseas subsidiaries, which would be hedged where appropriate.
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, being The Groups US Dollar denominated borrowings are designated as a hedge of the net investment in its subsidiaries in the US.
The foreign exchange movements Sterling, US Dollar and Euro interest rates, and Sterling US Dollar and Sterling Euro exchange rates.
on translation of the borrowings into Sterling have been recognised in the translation reserve.
The sensitivity analysis assumes reasonable movements in foreign exchange and interest rates before the effect of tax.
The Group considers a reasonable The Groups other currency exposures comprise only those exposures that give rise to net currency gains and losses to be recognised in the income statement.
interest rate movement in LIBOR to be 1%, based on interest rate history.
Similarly, sensitivity to movements in Sterling US Dollar and Sterling Euro exchange Such exposures reflect the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the operating or functional currency of the entity involved.
rates of 10% are shown reflecting changes of reasonable proportion in the context of movement in those currency pairs over the last year.
Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the illustrative effect on the Consolidated income statement and equity.
13.3 Maturity of financial liabilities 2012 2011 The maturity profile of the undiscounted contractual amount of the Groups financial liabilities at 30 September was as follows: Income Equity Income Equity 2012 losses gains losses gains losses gains losses gains m m m m Trade and Other financial Borrowings other payables liabilities Total 1% increase in market interest rates 1.9 1.9 2.0 2.0 m m m m 1% decrease in market interest rates 1.9 1.9 2.0 2.0 In less than one year 9.2 259.0 60.0 328.2 10% strengthening of Sterling versus the US Dollar 5.4 41.6 5.1 62.4 In more than one year but not more than two years 2.4 2.4 10% strengthening of Sterling versus the Euro 6.0 26.1 7.4 31.6 In more than two years but not more than five years 228.2 68.3 296.5 10% weakening of Sterling versus the US Dollar 5.9 45.8 5.6 68.7 In more than five years 10% weakening of Sterling versus the Euro 6.6 28.7 8.1 34.8 239.8 259.0 128.3 627.1 13.7 The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 2012 2011 2011 m m Trade and Other financial In less than one year 1.3 1.0 Borrowings other payables liabilities Total m m m m In more than one year but not more than five years 1.7 2.6 In less than one year 2.6 261.2 50.0 313.8 3.0 3.6 In more than one year but not more than two years 3.4 3.4 Future finance charges on finance leases 0.2 0.3 In more than two years but not more than five years 155.6 155.6 Present value of finance lease liabilities 2.8 3.3 In more than five years 83.5 83.5 245.1 261.2 50.0 556.3 13.4 Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 30 September in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 2012 2011 m m Expiring in more than two years but not more than five years 323.3 358.3 The facilities have been arranged to help finance the expansion of the Groups activities.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 109 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Net debt and capital structure continued 14 Equity 14.1 Ordinary shares 2012 2011 Authorised m m 1,860,000,000 2011: 1,860,000,000 ordinary shares of 1p each 18.6 18.6 2012 2012 2011 2011 Issued and fully paid shares m shares m At 1 October 1,323,837,836 13.2 1,317,360,582 13.2 Proceeds from shares issued 5,679,734 0.1 6,477,254 At 30 September 1,329,517,570 13.3 1,323,837,836 13.2 Potential issues of ordinary shares Executive Share Option Scheme Certain senior executives hold options to subscribe for shares in the Company at prices ranging from 134.00p to 270.00p under the share option schemes approved by shareholders.
Performance Share Plan Under the Groups Performance Share Plan for certain senior executives approved by shareholders on 3 March 2005 and amended at the Annual General Meeting on 3 March 2009, the following awards have been made: 2012 2011 Date of award Vesting date number number 3 March 2009 3 March 2012 11,379,360 4 March 2010 4 March 2013 7,333,241 7,842,033 10 March 2011 10 March 2014 7,547,001 7,998,296 8 September 2011 8 September 2014 84,413 84,413 12 March 2012 12 March 2015 4,151,025 26 June 2012 26 June 2015 12,538 19,128,218 27,304,102 Restricted Share Plan The Groups Restricted Share Plan is a long-term incentive plan used in limited circumstances and usually on a one-off basis.
During the year the following awards have been made: 2012 2011 Date of award Vesting date number number 5 December 2011 5 December 2013 369,818 26 June 2012 26 June 2015 350,018 719,836 110 Net debt and capital structure continued Savings-related Share Option Scheme 14 Equity In addition, options were granted under the terms of The Sage Group plc 1996 Savings-related Share Option Scheme approved by members on 7 February 1996 14.1 Ordinary shares up to 2005 and thereafter under the new scheme approved by the members at the Annual General Meeting on 2 March 2006, as follows: 2012 2011 Exercise price 2012 2011 Authorised m m Date of grant pence Exercise period number number 1,860,000,000 2011: 1,860,000,000 ordinary shares of 1p each 18.6 18.6 1 March 2005 157.00 1 March 2012 31 August 2012 10,701 1 August 2006 184.00 1 August 2011 31 January 2012 15,446 2012 2012 2011 2011 1 August 2006 184.00 1 August 2013 31 January 2014 18,397 20,999 Issued and fully paid shares m shares m 1 August 2007 203.00 1 August 2012 31 January 2013 2,945 62,747 At 1 October 1,323,837,836 13.2 1,317,360,582 13.2 1 August 2007 203.00 1 August 2014 31 January 2015 10,734 18,525 Proceeds from shares issued 5,679,734 0.1 6,477,254 1 August 2008 177.00 1 August 2011 31 January 2012 67,812 At 30 September 1,329,517,570 13.3 1,323,837,836 13.2 1 August 2008 177.00 1 August 2013 31 January 2014 125,850 132,836 Potential issues of ordinary shares 1 August 2008 177.00 1 August 2015 31 January 2016 9,068 9,462 Executive Share Option Scheme 1 August 2009 149.00 1 August 2012 31 January 2013 98,858 1,077,740 Certain senior executives hold options to subscribe for shares in the Company at prices ranging from 134.00p to 270.00p under the share option schemes 1 August 2009 149.00 1 August 2014 31 January 2015 276,508 292,261 approved by shareholders.
6,817,850 11,953,590 14.2 Share-based payments Under the above scheme, 4,618,463 1p ordinary shares were issued during the year for aggregate proceeds of 9.8m.
The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans was 1.3m 2011: 3.2m, all of which related to equity-settled share-based Performance Share Plan payment transactions.
After deferred tax, the total charge was 3.0m 2011: 4.9m.
A reconciliation of share movements for options granted after 7 November Under the Groups Performance Share Plan for certain senior executives approved by shareholders on 3 March 2005 and amended at the Annual General 2002 to which IFRS 2, Share-based payment is applicable is shown on the following pages.
Meeting on 3 March 2009, the following awards have been made: Executive Share Option Scheme 2012 2011 There have been no grants of executive share options under the 1999 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS since June 2008.
Long-term incentive awards Date of award Vesting date number number are made under The Sage Group plc Performance Share Plan.
3 March 2009 3 March 2012 11,379,360 The performance targets governing the vesting of options are based on stretching EPS growth measured over a fixed three-year period from the start of the 4 March 2010 4 March 2013 7,333,241 7,842,033 financial year in which the grant is made.
30% of options will vest at the end of the period if the increase in EPS exceeds the Retail Prices Index RPI by 15% 10 March 2011 10 March 2014 7,547,001 7,998,296 an average of 5% per year and 100% of those options will vest at that time only if the RPI is exceeded in that period by 27% an average of 9% per year.
8 September 2011 8 September 2014 84,413 84,413 Between those targets, options will vest on a straight-line basis.
If those targets are not met at the end of the three-year period, then no further retesting of the 12 March 2012 12 March 2015 4,151,025 performance criteria will be undertaken and the options will lapse.
26 June 2012 26 June 2015 12,538 Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last four years.
The expected 19,128,218 27,304,102 life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
Restricted Share Plan The Groups Restricted Share Plan is a long-term incentive plan used in limited circumstances and usually on a one-off basis.
During the year the following awards have been made: 2012 2011 Date of award Vesting date number number 5 December 2011 5 December 2013 369,818 26 June 2012 26 June 2015 350,018 719,836 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 111 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Net debt and capital structure continued 14 Equity continued 14.2 Share-based payments continued A reconciliation of option movements over the year is shown below: 2012 2011 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Number price Number price 000s 000s Outstanding at 1 October 10,766 2.17 22,888 2.13 Forfeited 380 2.36 8,348 2.18 Exercised 3,568 2.07 3,774 1.90 Outstanding at 30 September 6,818 2.21 10,766 2.17 Exercisable at 30 September 6,818 2.21 10,486 2.17 2012 2011 Weighted average Weighted average remaining life years remaining life years Weighted Weighted average average exercise Number exercise Number Range of exercise prices price of shares price of shares 000s Expected Contractual 000s Expected Contractual 1.34 2.70 2.21 6,818 2.8 2.17 10,766 3.7 The weighted average share price during the period for options exercised over the year was 294.05p 2011: 282.20p.
The Sage Group Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan the Plan was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2005 and amended at the Annual General Meeting in 2009.
Annual grants of performance shares will normally be made to executive directors and senior executives across the Group after the preliminary declaration of the annual results.
Following the amendments to the scheme, annual awards under the Plan are limited to shares worth up to 300% of base salary.
In practice, annual grants to executive directors are limited to shares with a maximum value on award of 210% of base salary except in exceptional circumstances, such as a promotion or recruitment or to reflect local market practice.
The performance shares are subject to performance conditions on a sliding scale based on EPS.
25% of the award will vest at the end of the period if the increase in EPS exceeds RPI by 9% an average of 3% per year : 100% of the award will vest at that time only if RPI is exceeded in that period by 27% an average of 9% per year.
Between those targets, awards will vest on a straight-line basis, and if those targets are not met there is no opportunity for re-testing.
Awards are then subject to a TSR multiplier whereby the level of vesting based on EPS achievement will be adjusted according to TSR performance over the same three-year period compared with a group of international software and computer services companies.
The comparator group for awards made in 2012 comprised the following companies: Adobe Systems Cegid Logica Salesforce.
com ARM Holdings Dassault Systmes Micro Focus International SAP Blackbaud Exact Microsoft Software AG Cap Gemini Intuit Oracle If Sages TSR is ranked at lower quartile in the group, the multiplier is 0.75.
If Sages TSR is ranked at median in the group, the multiplier is 1.
If Sages TSR is ranked at upper quartile in the group, then the multiplier is 1.5.
Straight-line pro-rating applies between 0.75 and 1, and between 1 and 1.5, but the multiplier cannot be higher or lower than these figures.
Awards were valued using the Monte Carlo option-pricing model.
Performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations.
The fair value per award granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 112 Net debt and capital structure continued 14 Equity continued March September March March June Grant date 2011 2011 2012 2012 2012 14.2 Share-based payments continued Share price at grant date 2.70 2.57 2.98 2.98 2.60 A reconciliation of option movements over the year is shown below: Exercise price 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2012 2011 Number of employees 207 1 8 154 1 Weighted Weighted Shares under award 7,547,001 84,413 2,083,735 2,067,290 12,538 average average exercise exercise Vesting period years 3 3 3 3 3 Number price Number price Expected volatility 31% 29% 24% 24% 24% 000s 000s Award life years 3 3 3 3 3 Outstanding at 1 October 10,766 2.17 22,888 2.13 Expected life years 3 3 3 3 3 Forfeited 380 2.36 8,348 2.18 Risk free rate 1.6% 0.6% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% Exercised 3,568 2.07 3,774 1.90 Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Outstanding at 30 September 6,818 2.21 10,766 2.17 Fair value per award 2.121 1.993 2.415 2.979 2.979 Exercisable at 30 September 6,818 2.21 10,486 2.17 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed award life.
2012 2011 A reconciliation of award movements over the year is shown below: Weighted average Weighted average remaining life years remaining life years 2012 2011 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average exercise Number exercise Number exercise exercise Range of exercise prices price of shares price of shares Number price Number price 000s Expected Contractual 000s Expected Contractual 000s 000s 1.34 2.70 2.21 6,818 2.8 2.17 10,766 3.7 Outstanding at 1 October 27,304 24,810 Awarded 4,363 8,586 The weighted average share price during the period for options exercised over the year was 294.05p 2011: 282.20p.
Forfeited 6,694 4,925 The Sage Group Performance Share Plan Exercised 5,845 1,167 The Performance Share Plan the Plan was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2005 and amended at the Annual General Meeting in Outstanding at 30 September 19,128 27,304 2009.
Annual grants of performance shares will normally be made to executive directors and senior executives across the Group after the preliminary declaration Exercisable at 30 September of the annual results.
In practice, annual grants to 2012 2011 executive directors are limited to shares with a maximum value on award of 210% of base salary except in exceptional circumstances, such as a promotion or Weighted average Weighted average recruitment or to reflect local market practice.
remaining life years remaining life years The performance shares are subject to performance conditions on a sliding scale based on EPS.
25% of the award will vest at the end of the period if the Weighted Weighted average average increase in EPS exceeds RPI by 9% an average of 3% per year : 100% of the award will vest at that time only if RPI is exceeded in that period by 27% an exercise Number exercise Number average of 9% per year.
price of shares price of shares Awards are then subject to a TSR multiplier whereby the level of vesting based on EPS achievement will be adjusted according to TSR performance over the Range of exercise prices 000s Expected Contractual 000s Expected Contractual same three-year period compared with a group of international software and computer services companies.
N A 19,128 1.3 1.3 27,304 1.3 1.3 The comparator group for awards made in 2012 comprised the following companies: Adobe Systems Cegid Logica Salesforce.
The fair value per award granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 113 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Net debt and capital structure continued 14 Equity continued 14.2 Share-based payments continued The Sage Group Restricted Share Plan The Groups Restricted Share Plan is a long-term incentive plan used in limited circumstances and usually on a one-off basis, under which contingent share awards are made, usually with specific performance conditions.
Executive Directors are not permitted to participate in the plan and shares are purchased in the market to satisfy vesting awards.
December June Grant date 2011 2012 Share price at grant date 2.87 2.66 Exercise price 0.00 0.00 Number of employees 1 1 Shares under award 369,818 350,018 Vesting period years 2 3 Expected volatility 23% 23% Award life years 2 3 Expected life years 2 3 Risk free rate 0.4% 0.4% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 0.0% 0.0% Fair value per award 2.874 2.655 Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last two or three years, consistent with the award life.
A reconciliation of award movements over the year is shown below: 2012 2011 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Number price Number price 000s 000s Outstanding at 1 October Awarded 720 Outstanding at 30 September 720 Exercisable at 30 September 2012 2011 Weighted average Weighted average remaining life years remaining life years Weighted Weighted average average exercise Number exercise Number price of shares price of shares Range of exercise prices 000s Expected Contractual 000s Expected Contractual N A 720 1.9 1.9 The Sage Group Savings-related Share Option Plan the SAYE Plan In February 1996, the Company introduced a HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved savings-related share option scheme allowing all UK employees to apply for an option to acquire ordinary shares in the Company Shares at a price per Share which was not less than 80% of the market value of those Shares when invitations for options were made.
The acquisition of the Shares was funded by the proceeds of a savings account with a bank or building society.
The original scheme adopted in 1996 continued in accordance with its terms for 10 years and expired in February 2006.
A new scheme was approved by the members at the Annual General Meeting held on 2 March 2006.
Eligibility All UK employees, including executive directors, of the Company and its participating subsidiaries who have completed at least one years continuous service and are assessable for employment income tax are eligible to participate in the SAYE Plan.
The directors may offer participation to other employees and may alter the length of service required to qualify to a different period, not exceeding seven years.
114 Net debt and capital structure continued Employee contributions 14 Equity continued An employee who wishes to participate in the SAYE Plan will enter into a contract the SAYE contract with a savings body, designated by the directors for the 14.2 Share-based payments continued purpose of the SAYE Plan, to make monthly contributions by deduction from their pay of not more than the maximum contribution permitted from time to time by HMRC currently 250.
The Sage Group Restricted Share Plan The Groups Restricted Share Plan is a long-term incentive plan used in limited circumstances and usually on a one-off basis, under which contingent share A tax-free bonus currently equivalent to 1.6x the monthly contribution will be paid on completion of 84 monthly savings contributions: no bonus is payable on awards are made, usually with specific performance conditions.
Executive Directors are not permitted to participate in the plan and shares are purchased in the the 36 or 60 monthly savings.
market to satisfy vesting awards.
Exercise price An employee who applies for the grant of an option to acquire Shares will do so at a price the Exercise Price which is determined by the directors but which is December June Grant date 2011 2012 not less than the greater of: Share price at grant date 2.87 2.66 80% of the middle market quotation of a Share on the dealing day prior to the date of invitation as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List Exercise price 0.00 0.00 or, if the directors so decide, 80% of the average of the middle market quotations over the three dealing days prior to the date of the invitation or 80% of the Number of employees 1 1 middle market quotations at such other time or times agreed in advance with HMRC : and Shares under award 369,818 350,018 in the case of an option over unissued Shares, the nominal value of a Share.
Vesting period years 2 3 Grant of options Expected volatility 23% 23% Each option is granted over a number of Shares which, when multiplied by the Exercise Price, does not exceed the total monthly contributions plus the bonus Award life years 2 3 payable on the maturity of the SAYE contract.
There will be no payment for the grant of an option.
Invitations to apply for options must be made within a period of Expected life years 2 3 42 days after: Risk free rate 0.4% 0.4% approval of the SAYE Plan by HMRC: or Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 0.0% 0.0% the publication by the Company of its interim or final results each year: or Fair value per award 2.874 2.655 the day after the Companys Annual General Meeting: or Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last two or three years, any day on which any change to the savings-related share option schemes legislation is announced or made: or consistent with the award life.
if the directors resolve that exceptional circumstances exist which justify the operation of the SAYE Plan.
A reconciliation of award movements over the year is shown below: Exercise of options In normal circumstances, an option may be exercised at any time within six months following maturity of the SAYE contract, using the proceeds of the SAYE 2012 2011 contract and the applicable bonus.
Weighted Weighted average average Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
Performance conditions were not included in the fair value calculations.
The fair value per exercise exercise option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: Number price Number price 000s 000s August August August August August August Outstanding at 1 October Grant date 2011 2011 2011 2012 2012 2012 Awarded 720 Share price at grant date 2.70 2.70 2.70 2.91 2.91 2.91 Outstanding at 30 September 720 Exercise price 2.34 2.34 2.34 2.01 2.01 2.01 Exercisable at 30 September Number of employees 413 39 8 716 65 10 Shares under option 458,349 77,087 14,534 1,212,554 177,486 21,908 2012 2011 Vesting period years 3 5 7 3 5 7 Weighted average Weighted average Expected volatility 29% 29% 27% 24% 30% 28% remaining life years remaining life years Option life years 3 5 7 3 5 7 Weighted Weighted average average Expected life years 3 5 7 3 5 7 exercise Number exercise Number Risk free rate 1.0% 1.7% 2.4% 0.2% 0.6% 1.0% price of shares price of shares Range of exercise prices 000s Expected Contractual 000s Expected Contractual Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% N A 720 1.9 1.9 Fair value per option 0.448 0.497 0.507 0.622 0.687 0.656 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three, five or seven years, consistent with the option life.
The expected life is the average The Sage Group Savings-related Share Option Plan the SAYE Plan expected period to exercise.
In February 1996, the Company introduced a HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved savings-related share option scheme allowing all UK employees to apply for an option to acquire ordinary shares in the Company Shares at a price per Share which was not less than 80% of the market value of those Shares The resulting fair value is expensed over the service period of three, five or seven years on the assumption that 20% of options will lapse over the service period when invitations for options were made.
The as employees leave the Group.
original scheme adopted in 1996 continued in accordance with its terms for 10 years and expired in February 2006.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 115 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Net debt and capital structure continued 14 Equity continued 14.2 Share-based payments continued A reconciliation of option movements over the year is shown below: 2012 2011 Weighted Weighted average average Number price Number price 000s 000s Outstanding at 1 October 3,099 1.81 3,147 1.68 Awarded 1,438 2.01 757 2.34 Forfeited 394 2.08 328 1.76 Exercised 1,062 1.54 477 1.78 Outstanding at 30 September 3,081 1.96 3,099 1.81 Exercisable at 30 September 102 1.51 83 1.78 2012 2011 Weighted average Weighted average remaining life years remaining life years Weighted Weighted average average exercise Number exercise Number Range of exercise prices price of shares price of shares 000s Expected Contractual 000s Expected Contractual 1.49 2.34 1.96 3,081 2.3 2.8 1.81 3,099 2.0 2.5 14.3 Share premium m At 1 October 2010 499.8 Premium on shares issued during the year under share option schemes 13.4 At 1 October 2011 513.2 Premium on shares issued during the year under share option schemes 11.3 At 30 September 2012 524.5 14.4 Other reserves Total Translation Hedge Merger Other other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves m m m m m At 1 October 2010 199.2 1.0 61.1 259.3 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 6.5 6.5 Cash flow hedges: Fair value losses in the year 1.0 1.0 At 30 September 2011 205.7 61.1 266.8 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 66.6 66.6 Exchange differences recycled to the income statement in respect of the disposal of foreign operations 55.7 55.7 Put and call arrangement 68.0 68.0 At 30 September 2012 83.4 61.1 68.0 76.5 Translation reserve The translation reserve represents the accumulated exchange differences arising since the transition to IFRS from the following sources: the impact of the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than Sterling: and exchange differences arising on hedging instruments that are designated hedges of a net investment in foreign operations, net of tax where applicable.
Exchange differences arising prior to the IFRS transition were offset against retained earnings.
Hedge reserve The hedge reserve records movements on derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
116 Net debt and capital structure continued Merger reserve 14 Equity continued Merger reserve brought forward relates to the merger reserve which was present under UK GAAP and frozen on transition to IFRS.
14.2 Share-based payments continued Other reserve A reconciliation of option movements over the year is shown below: Other reserve relates to the recognition of a put and call arrangement to acquire the remaining non-controlling interests 25% share in Folhamatic.
2012 2011 Weighted Weighted 14.5 Retained earnings average average 2012 2011 Number price Number price m m 000s 000s At 1 October 914.6 877.1 Outstanding at 1 October 3,099 1.81 3,147 1.68 Profit for the year 296.6 189.0 Awarded 1,438 2.01 757 2.34 Value of employee services 1.2 3.2 Forfeited 394 2.08 328 1.76 Purchase of treasury shares 299.8 Exercised 1,062 1.54 477 1.78 Expenses related to purchase of treasury shares 2.0 Outstanding at 30 September 3,081 1.96 3,099 1.81 Close period share buyback programme 10.0 50.0 Exercisable at 30 September 102 1.51 83 1.78 Actuarial loss gain on post-employment benefit obligations 2.6 1.0 Other comprehensive income equity movement of deferred income tax 0.7 1.7 2012 2011 Dividends paid to owners of the parent 136.5 104.0 Weighted average Weighted average At 30 September 760.8 914.6 remaining life years remaining life years Weighted Weighted The actuarial loss of 2.6m 2011: gain of 1.0m is made up of a gain of 0.4m 2011: gain of 0.2m on post-employment benefits note 8 and a loss of 3.0m average average exercise Number exercise Number 2011: gain of 0.8m on other long-term employee benefits note 8.
Range of exercise prices price of shares price of shares 000s Expected Contractual 000s Expected Contractual Treasury shares 1.49 2.34 1.96 3,081 2.3 2.8 1.81 3,099 2.0 2.5 Purchase of treasury share Shares purchased under the Groups buyback programme are not cancelled but are retained in issue and represent a deduction from equity attributable to 14.3 Share premium owners of the parent.
During the year the Group purchased 104,628,376 shares 2011: nil at a cost of 299.8m 2011: nil representing 7.9% of issued share capital.
Shares were repurchased at a weighted average price of 273.60p per share, the highest and lowest prices paid for these shares were 325.00p per share m and 245.40p per share respectively.
At 1 October 2010 499.8 Premium on shares issued during the year under share option schemes 13.4 Close period share buyback programme The close period buyback programme for 60.0m 2011: 50.0m relates to the purchase of the Companys own shares.
Deutsche Bank AG has been appointed At 1 October 2011 513.2 to manage the irrevocable buyback programme during the close period which commenced on 1 October 2012 and will run up until 5 December 2012.
Premium on shares issued during the year under share option schemes 11.3 Employee share trust At 30 September 2012 524.5 The Group holds treasury shares in a trust which was set up for the benefit of Group employees.
The Trust purchases the Companys shares in the market 14.4 Other reserves or is gifted them by the Company for use in connection with the Groups share-based payments arrangements.
Total Translation Hedge Merger Other other The Trust originally purchased the shares in 2006, and further shares were acquired by the Trust in 2010 with the cost being reflected in retained earnings.
reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves These shares were acquired by the Trust in the open market using funds provided by the Company.
In February 2012 the Company gifted 3,500,000 shares from m m m m m purchased treasury shares to the Trust.
During the year, 6,478,779 shares were utilised to meet obligations under the Performance Share Plan.
At 1 October 2010 199.2 1.0 61.1 259.3 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 6.5 6.5 The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the profit and loss account of the Company in the period to which they relate.
The market value of the shares at 30 September 2012 was 2.2m 2011: 9.5m.
Cash flow hedges: Fair value losses in the year 1.0 1.0 At 30 September 2011 205.7 61.1 266.8 14.6 Non-controlling interest Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 66.6 66.6 Non-controlling interests in equity in the Group balance sheet represent the share of net assets of subsidiary undertakings held outside the Group.
The Exchange differences recycled to the income statement in respect of the movement in the year comprises the profit attributable to such interests together with movements in respect of corporate transactions and related disposal of foreign operations 55.7 55.7 exchange differences.
Put and call arrangement 68.0 68.0 2012 Note m At 30 September 2012 83.4 61.1 68.0 76.5 At 1 October Translation reserve Non-controlling interest arising on business combination 16.1 2.2 The translation reserve represents the accumulated exchange differences arising since the transition to IFRS from the following sources: Non-controlling interests share of profit of the year 0.1 the impact of the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than Sterling: and At 30 September 2.1 exchange differences arising on hedging instruments that are designated hedges of a net investment in foreign operations, net of tax where applicable.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 117 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Other notes 15 Discontinued operations and non-current assets held for sale 15.1 Discontinued operations Sage Software Healthcare, LLC The control of Sage Software Healthcare, LLC Sage Healthcare was passed to Vista Equity Partners on 10 November 2011 for cash proceeds of 204.0m.
The proceeds have been returned to shareholders through a share buyback programme.
Further disposal information can be found in note 16.5.
15.2 Discontinued operations financial performance Sage Healthcare is reported in the financial statements as discontinued operations.
The financial performance for the period is below: 2012 2011 m m Revenue 16.5 149.7 Selling and administrative expenses 14.4 138.2 Operating profit 2.1 11.5 Finance costs 0.2 Profit on disposal of Sage Healthcare 0.9 Cumulative exchange gain in respect of the net assets of the subsidiary, reclassified from equity on disposal 55.7 Impairment of disposal group to fair value less costs to sell 121.5 Profit loss before income tax 58.5 110.0 Income tax expense credit 0.7 43.0 Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 57.8 67.0 Earnings per share information can be found in note 4.1.
15.3 Discontinued operations Cash flow The cash flow statement shows amounts related to discontinued operations.
15.4 Non-current assets and liabilities classified as held for sale There are no disposal groups classified as held for sale in the current year.
At 30 September 2011 the assets and liabilities relating to Sage Healthcare were presented as held for sale following the announcement on 22 September 2011 that a definitive agreement to sell Sage Healthcare had been reached.
2012 2011 m m Goodwill 183.1 Other intangible assets 36.2 Property, plant and equipment 1.9 Inventories 1.0 Trade and other receivables 28.9 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 251.1 Trade and other payables 19.7 Deferred income 30.0 Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale 49.7 Net assets classified as held for sale 201.4 118 Other notes 15 Discontinued operations and non-current assets held for sale 16 Acquisitions and disposals 15.1 Discontinued operations Sage Software Healthcare, LLC 16.1 Acquisitions made during the year The control of Sage Software Healthcare, LLC Sage Healthcare was passed to Vista Equity Partners on 10 November 2011 for cash proceeds of 204.0m.
Folhamatic Tecnologia em Sistemas S. A.
On 25 June 2012 the Group completed the acquisition of 75% share of the share capital of Folhamatic Tecnologia em Sistemas S. A. Folhamatic based in Brazil for cash consideration of 122.6m.
15.2 Discontinued operations financial performance The provisional fair value of the liabilities acquired was 9.2m, resulting in provisional goodwill of 129.6m.
In the purchase 75% of the voting rights were Sage Healthcare is reported in the financial statements as discontinued operations.
The financial performance for the period is below: acquired.
The non-controlling interest has been measured at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the net liabilities of 2.2m.
2012 2011 The Group has entered into a put and call arrangement to acquire the remaining 25% share in Folhamatic.
Under the terms of the agreement the price to be m m payable is based on a multiple of expected EBITDA for the year ending 31 December 2014 and is estimated at 71.0m, which is 68.3m after discounting to Revenue 16.5 149.7 present value of the estimated redemption amount.
This has been included as a non-current financial liability note 13.5.
Selling and administrative expenses 14.4 138.2 The acquisition of Folhamatic represents an important step in building the Groups presence in key emerging markets.
This acquisition is consistent with the Operating profit 2.1 11.5 Groups strategy and was approved following the Boards evaluation of the potential return on capital.
Folhamatic has a leading market position in a large and Finance costs 0.2 growing economy.
Profit on disposal of Sage Healthcare 0.9 Alchemex Pty Ltd Cumulative exchange gain in respect of the net assets of the subsidiary, reclassified from equity on disposal 55.7 The entire share capital of Alchemex Pty Ltd Alchemex was acquired on 1 October 2011 for cash consideration of 2.8m and deferred consideration of Impairment of disposal group to fair value less costs to sell 121.5 2.8m.
The fair value of the assets acquired was 1.1m, resulting in goodwill of 4.5m.
Profit loss before income tax 58.5 110.0 Integral Computers Limited Income tax expense credit 0.7 43.0 The entire share capital of Integral Computers Limited Integral was acquired on 6 February 2012 for cash consideration of 11.9m and contingent Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 57.8 67.0 consideration of 4.0m.
The fair value of the assets acquired was 5.6m, resulting in goodwill of 10.3m.
Earnings per share information can be found in note 4.1.
Other The entire share capital of TML BVBA Ltd TML was acquired on 1 March 2012 for cash consideration of 2.6m.
The fair value of the assets acquired was 15.3 Discontinued operations Cash flow 0.9m, resulting in goodwill of 1.7m.
The cash flow statement shows amounts related to discontinued operations.
Cenize was acquired on 24 August 2012 for cash consideration of 1.0m and contingent consideration of 2.9m.
The fair value 15.4 Non-current assets and liabilities classified as held for sale of the assets acquired was nil, resulting in goodwill of 3.9m.
There are no disposal groups classified as held for sale in the current year.
At 30 September 2011 the assets and liabilities relating to Sage Healthcare were There were no other acquisitions made in the year.
presented as held for sale following the announcement on 22 September 2011 that a definitive agreement to sell Sage Healthcare had been reached.
The net identifiable assets including intangible assets were recognised at their provisional fair values.
The residual excess over the net assets acquired has 2012 2011 been recognised as goodwill.
Details of net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: m m Goodwill 183.1 Summary of acquisitions m Other intangible assets 36.2 Purchase consideration Property, plant and equipment 1.9 Cash 140.9 Inventories 1.0 Deferred contingent consideration 9.7 Trade and other receivables 28.9 Total purchase consideration 150.6 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 251.1 Fair value of net identifiable liabilities 1.6 Fair value of net identified liabilities attributable to non-controlling interest 2.2 Trade and other payables 19.7 Goodwill 150.0 Deferred income 30.0 Goodwill represents the fair value of the assembled workforce at the time of acquisition along with potential synergies with the existing Sage business.
Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale 49.7 Net assets classified as held for sale 201.4 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 119 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Other notes continued 16 Acquisitions and disposals continued 16.1 Acquisitions made during the year continued Folhamatic Alchemex Integral Other Total Provisional fair value of acquisitions m m m m m Intangible assets brands, technology and customer relationships 36.4 1.0 4.2 41.6 Intangible assets computer software 0.6 0.6 Property, plant and equipment 1.2 0.3 1.5 Inventories 0.1 0.3 0.4 Trade and other receivables 10.0 0.3 1.0 1.3 12.6 Cash and cash equivalents 0.8 0.1 1.9 2.8 Trade and other payables 8.1 0.1 0.6 0.3 9.1 Current borrowings 0.2 0.2 Non-current borrowings 0.1 0.1 Deferred consideration 21.8 21.8 Income tax current 0.3 0.3 Income tax deferred 10.1 0.1 0.5 10.7 Deferred income 17.8 0.1 1.0 18.9 Total net identifiable liabilities assets acquired 9.2 1.1 5.6 0.9 1.6 Non-controlling interest 2.2 2.2 Goodwill 129.6 4.5 10.3 5.6 150.0 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 122.6 2.8 11.9 3.6 140.9 Deferred contingent consideration 2.8 4.0 2.9 9.7 Total purchase consideration 122.6 5.6 15.9 6.5 150.6 The outflow of cash and cash equivalents on the acquisitions is calculated as follows: Cash consideration 122.6 2.8 11.9 3.6 140.9 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 0.8 0.1 1.9 2.8 Borrowings acquired 0.2 0.1 0.3 Deferred consideration acquired, paid post acquisition 21.8 21.8 Acquisition costs acquired, paid post acquisition 2.6 2.6 Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 146.4 2.7 10.0 3.7 162.8 The intangible assets acquired as part of these acquisitions can be analysed as follows: Brands 6.8 6.8 Technology 18.0 0.8 1.7 20.5 Customer relationships 11.6 0.2 2.5 14.3 36.4 1.0 4.2 41.6 Further details of these are given in note 5.2.
16.2 Deferred contingent consideration Part of the cash paid on the Folhamatic acquisition is being held in an escrow account pending final determination of the results for the year ending 31 December 2012.
The funds held in escrow will be paid out to shareholders in FY13 once the final acquisition price is determined, which is based on a multiple of expected EBITDA for the year ending 31 December 2012.
The cash paid was based on an estimate of the EBITDA for the year ending 31 December 2012.
During the year previously contingent consideration was fixed under the original terms of the agreement and as such is now deferred consideration.
Deferred consideration payable to the former owners of Alchemex of 2.8m has been recognised at fair value: this additional consideration is payable for the years ending 30 September 2012-2014.
Contingent consideration payable to the former owners of Integral of 4.0m has been recognised at fair value: this additional consideration is dependent on revenue achievement for the year ending 31 December 2012.
Contingent consideration payable to the former owners of Cenize of 2.9m has been recognised at fair value: this additional consideration is contingent on the EBITDA results for the year ending 31 December 2014.
120 Other notes continued 16.3 Contribution of acquisitions 16 Acquisitions and disposals continued From the dates of the acquisitions to 30 September 2012, the acquisitions contributed 17.9m to revenue and 3.5m to profit before income tax.
Had these 16.1 Acquisitions made during the year continued acquisitions occurred at the beginning of the financial year, contribution to Group revenue would have been 55.4m and Group profit before income tax would have increased by 1.1m.
Folhamatic Alchemex Integral Other Total 16.4 Acquisition-related items Provisional fair value of acquisitions m m m m m Acquisition-related items of 4.4m 2011: 0.4m have been included in selling and administrative expenses in the Consolidated income statement.
These Intangible assets brands, technology and customer relationships 36.4 1.0 4.2 41.6 acquisition-related items previously recognised in goodwill prior to IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations relate to completed transactions and include Intangible assets computer software 0.6 0.6 advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other professional or consulting.
Property, plant and equipment 1.2 0.3 1.5 16.5 Disposal of Sage Software Healthcare, LLC Inventories 0.1 0.3 0.4 On 10 November 2011 the Group disposed of Sage Healthcare for 204.0m consideration.
Details of net assets disposed of and the profit on disposal are as follows: Trade and other receivables 10.0 0.3 1.0 1.3 12.6 Carrying value Cash and cash equivalents 0.8 0.1 1.9 2.8 pre-disposal Trade and other payables 8.1 0.1 0.6 0.3 9.1 Sage Healthcare disposal m Current borrowings 0.2 0.2 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 249.3 Non-current borrowings 0.1 0.1 Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale 46.4 Deferred consideration 21.8 21.8 Net assets disposed 202.9 Income tax current 0.3 0.3 Income tax deferred 10.1 0.1 0.5 10.7 The profit on disposal is calculated as follows: m Deferred income 17.8 0.1 1.0 18.9 Disposal proceeds 204.0 Total net identifiable liabilities assets acquired 9.2 1.1 5.6 0.9 1.6 Costs to sell recognised in year 0.2 Non-controlling interest 2.2 2.2 Disposal proceeds, less costs to sell recognised in year 203.8 Goodwill 129.6 4.5 10.3 5.6 150.0 Net assets disposed 202.9 Consideration satisfied by: Profit on disposal 0.9 Cash 122.6 2.8 11.9 3.6 140.9 Cumulative exchange gain in respect of the net assets of the subsidiary, reclassified from equity on disposal 55.7 Deferred contingent consideration 2.8 4.0 2.9 9.7 Profit on disposal 56.6 Total purchase consideration 122.6 5.6 15.9 6.5 150.6 The profit on disposal is reflected in profit for the year from discontinued operations in the Consolidated income statement.
In the year ended 30 September 2011 impairment charges and costs to sell totalling 121.5m were recognised in the loss for the year from discontinued operations in the Consolidated income The outflow of cash and cash equivalents on the acquisitions is calculated as follows: statement in respect of this transaction.
All cash flows occurred in the current year.
Cash consideration 122.6 2.8 11.9 3.6 140.9 The inflow of cash and cash equivalents on the disposal of Sage Healthcare is calculated as follows: m Cash and cash equivalents acquired 0.8 0.1 1.9 2.8 Disposal proceeds, less total costs to sell 199.9 Borrowings acquired 0.2 0.1 0.3 Cash disposed 1.0 Deferred consideration acquired, paid post acquisition 21.8 21.8 Investing cash flows generated from discontinued operations, net of cash disposed 198.9 Acquisition costs acquired, paid post acquisition 2.6 2.6 16.6 Other disposals Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 146.4 2.7 10.0 3.7 162.8 On 26 January 2012 the Group disposed of Edibase, a small product line of Sage SAS, for net cash consideration of 0.1m.
The intangible assets acquired as part of these acquisitions can be analysed as follows: 16.7 Contribution of disposals Brands 6.8 6.8 Had the disposals occurred at the beginning of the financial year, Group revenue from continuing operations would have been 1,340.1m, Group profit before income tax from continuing operations would have been unchanged.
Sage Healthcare is reported in the financial statements as discontinued operations, the Technology 18.0 0.8 1.7 20.5 financial performance for the period is given in note 15.2.
Customer relationships 11.6 0.2 2.5 14.3 36.4 1.0 4.2 41.6 16.8 Analysis of net outflow of cash in respect of acquisitions and disposals The outflow of cash and cash equivalents on the acquisitions and disposals is calculated as follows: Note m Further details of these are given in note 5.2.
Folhamatic 16.1 146.4 16.2 Deferred contingent consideration Alchemex 16.1 2.7 Part of the cash paid on the Folhamatic acquisition is being held in an escrow account pending final determination of the results for the year ending 31 December Integral 16.1 10.0 2012.
The funds held in escrow will be paid out to shareholders in FY13 once the final acquisition price is determined, which is based on a multiple of expected Other 16.1 3.7 EBITDA for the year ending 31 December 2012.
Acquisitions of subsidiaries 16.1 162.8 During the year previously contingent consideration was fixed under the original terms of the agreement and as such is now deferred consideration.
Deferred Other 16.6 0.1 consideration payable to the former owners of Alchemex of 2.8m has been recognised at fair value: this additional consideration is payable for the years ending Disposal of subsidiaries 16.6 0.1 30 September 2012-2014.
Sage Healthcare 16.5 198.9 Contingent consideration payable to the former owners of Integral of 4.0m has been recognised at fair value: this additional consideration is dependent on Disposal of discontinued operations 16.5 198.9 revenue achievement for the year ending 31 December 2012.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 121 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Other notes continued 16 Acquisitions and disposals continued 16.9 Analysis of goodwill The total additions and disposals to goodwill are calculated as follows: Note m Folhamatic 16.1 129.6 Alchemex 16.1 4.5 Integral 16.1 10.3 Other 16.1 5.6 Additions 16.1 150.0 Disposals Net movement in goodwill on acquisitions and disposals 150.0 17 Related party transactions The Groups related parties are its subsidiary undertakings and Executive Committee members.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption available under IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose details of transactions with its subsidiary undertakings.
Compensation paid to the Executive Committee is disclosed in note 2.2.
Supplier transactions occurred during the year between Softline Pty Ltd, one of the Groups subsidiary companies and Ivan Epstein, Chief Executive Officer, AAMEA.
These transactions relate to the lease of three properties in which Ivan Epstein has a minority and indirect shareholding.
During the year 0.8m 2011: 0.8m relating to these transactions was charged through selling and administrative expenses.
There were no outstanding amounts payable for the year ended 2012 2011: nil.
Supplier transactions occurred during the year between Sage SP, S. L. one of the Groups subsidiary companies and lvaro Ramrez, Chief Executive Officer, Europe.
These transactions relate to the lease of a property in which lvaro Ramrez has a minority shareholding.
During the year 0.2m 2011: 0.3m relating to these transactions was charged through selling and administrative expenses.
These arrangements are subject to independent review using external advisers to ensure all transactions are at arms length.
18 Events after the reporting period 18.1 Share buyback On 30 September 2012 the Group appointed Deutsche Bank AG to manage an irrevocable buyback programme during the close period which commenced on 1 October 2012 and will run up to 5 December 2012.
From 1 October 2012 to 29 November 2012, the latest practical date prior to publication of the Annual Report & Accounts, 17,925,641 ordinary shares of 1p each were repurchased through Deutsche Bank AG at a weighted average price of 308.89p per share.
The highest and lowest prices paid for these shares were 322.00p per share and 298.70p per share respectively.
The purchased shares have not been cancelled and are held as treasury shares.
The total number of ordinary shares in issue excluding shares held as treasury shares at 29 November 2012 is 1,210,714,269.
18.2 Acquisition of EBS Empresa Brasileira fide Sistemas Ltda.
On 11 October 2012 the Group acquired EBS Empresa Brasileira fide Sistemas Ltda.
: a provider of accounting, business management and tax software in Brazil: for a cash consideration of up to 10.5m, including a payment of 1.8m linked to the future financial performance.
The provisional fair value of the assets acquired was 0.1m, resulting in provisional goodwill of 10.4m.
18.3 Executive Committee change On 9 October 2012 the Group announced the appointment of Amanda Jobbins as Chief Marketing Officer, who will join Sages Executive Committee.
122 Other notes continued 16 Acquisitions and disposals continued 19 Principal subsidiaries Detailed below is a list of those subsidiaries which in the opinion of the directors principally affect the amount of the profit or the amount of the assets of the 16.9 Analysis of goodwill Group.
The Group percentage of equity capital and voting rights is 100% for all of these subsidiaries with the exception of Folhamatic Tecnologia em Sistemas The total additions and disposals to goodwill are calculated as follows: Note m S. A. which is 75% and IOB Informaes Objetivas Publicaes Jurdicas Ltda.
which is 100% owed by Folhamatic Tecnologia em Sistemas S. A.. All of these Folhamatic 16.1 129.6 subsidiaries are engaged in the development, distribution and support of business management software and related products and services for small and medium sized businesses.
Alchemex 16.1 4.5 Integral 16.1 10.3 Incorporated subsidiaries Other 16.1 5.6 Name Country of incorporation Additions 16.1 150.0 Sage UK Ltd UK Disposals Sage Pay Europe Limited UK Net movement in goodwill on acquisitions and disposals 150.0 Sage Hibernia Limited Ireland Sage Pay Ireland Limited Ireland 17 Related party transactions Ciel SAS France The Groups related parties are its subsidiary undertakings and Executive Committee members.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption available Sage SAS France under IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose details of transactions with its subsidiary undertakings.
Compensation paid to the Executive Sage FDC SAS France Committee is disclosed in note 2.2.
Sage Holding France SAS France Supplier transactions occurred during the year between Softline Pty Ltd, one of the Groups subsidiary companies and Ivan Epstein, Chief Executive Officer, Sage Software GmbH Germany AAMEA.
During the year 0.8m Sage Burer GmbH Germany 2011: 0.8m relating to these transactions was charged through selling and administrative expenses.
Sage Schweiz AG Switzerland Sage SP, S. L. Spain Supplier transactions occurred during the year between Sage SP, S. L. one of the Groups subsidiary companies and lvaro Ramrez, Chief Executive Officer, Sage Logic Control, S. L. Spain Europe.
z. o. o. Poland Sage Portugal Software S. A. Portugal These arrangements are subject to independent review using external advisers to ensure all transactions are at arms length.
US 18 Events after the reporting period Sage Payment Solutions, Inc.
US 18.1 Share buyback IOB Informaes Objetivas Publicaes Jurdicas Ltda.
Brazil On 30 September 2012 the Group appointed Deutsche Bank AG to manage an irrevocable buyback programme during the close period which commenced Folhamatic Tecnologia em Sistemas S. A. Brazil on 1 October 2012 and will run up to 5 December 2012.
From 1 October 2012 to 29 November 2012, the latest practical date prior to publication of the Annual Sage Software Canada Ltd Canada Report & Accounts, 17,925,641 ordinary shares of 1p each were repurchased through Deutsche Bank AG at a weighted average price of 308.89p per share.
Softline Pty Ltd South Africa The highest and lowest prices paid for these shares were 322.00p per share and 298.70p per share respectively.
The purchased shares have not been cancelled Micropay Pty Ltd Australia and are held as treasury shares.
Handisoft Software Pty Ltd Australia 18.2 Acquisition of EBS Empresa Brasileira fide Sistemas Ltda.
Sage Business Solutions Pty Ltd Australia On 11 October 2012 the Group acquired EBS Empresa Brasileira fide Sistemas Ltda.
: a provider of accounting, business management and tax software in Brazil: Sage Software Asia Pte Ltd Singapore for a cash consideration of up to 10.5m, including a payment of 1.8m linked to the future financial performance.
The provisional fair value of the assets Sage Software Sdn Bhd Malaysia acquired was 0.1m, resulting in provisional goodwill of 10.4m.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 123 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Contents Company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc 125 Company financial statements Our Company financial statements provide a complete picture Company balance sheet 126 of our 2012 position.
Notes to the Company financial statements Supplementary notes to the Company financial statements.
Company accounting policies 127 Results for the year 1.
Dividends 128 Operating assets and liabilities 2.
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 129 6.
Capital commitments and contingent liabilities 129 Net debt and capital structure 8.
Creditors: amounts falling due in more than one year 130 9.
