Understanding the local Thailand Environmental Impact Assessment EIA process operating environment EIA approvals are required in Thailand ahead of any }wV i q including seismic acquisition, A key to being able drilling or platform installation.
Having operated in both 66 to deliver our work An EIA submission must programmes to plan is our include a detailed description ability to obtain environmental Thailand and Indonesia for a of the project and include permits in a timely fashion.
discussion and analysis of the number of years, Salamander has Building support among impact of the project on a local communities can variety of areas including: a well-developed understanding ease this process.
We have U-i i been dedicating increased U i} of the operating environment in amounts of time and U i resource to strengthening U i both countries.
Each area of our relationships with U iiV} communities close to our U operation has its own distinct operations and their U i understanding of our U-ViVVV` challenges and developing the objectives and commitment U LVi to health, safety and ability to navigate through these the environment.
The process involves at least two public Graham Balchin with the minimum of delays to participation meetings, General Manager, Thailand held a minimum of 30 days ensure that we can deliver work apart, where the project is discussed with members programmes to our required of the local community.
Once the EIA submission schedule is a key skillset.
has been completed it is led with the Ofce of Natural Indonesia and Thailand both Kerendan gas eld Indonesia present very different challenges development to E&P Operations: In December 2010, Salamander acquired an operated interest in the Bangkanai PSC, in Central Kalimantan, which To be successful in included the Kerendan gas 66 Indonesia you need eld.
The 300 Bcf eld had to be able to overcome been discovered in the early the bureaucracy.
We have 1980s but due to its remote people with longstanding location commercialisation relationships with their at that time was not possible.
counteparts at SKMigas, The location also makes the industry regulator, who operational and development understand how to navigate activities challenging.
a relatively trouble free path through processes for Salamander was able to approvals, procurement partner with PLN, the state etc and this makes a real power enterprise and create difference to our ability an integrated gas to power to deliver.
project in which Salamander is responsible for the gas eld Craig Stewart development, gas processing General Manager, Indonesia facility, and 3 km delivery pipeline.
PLN is responsible for building the power plant and 220 km of transmission lines to tie the project into PLNs developing Kalimantan electrical grid.
A gas sales agreement to commercialise 120 Bcf of the gas reserves and anchor the project was signed by mid-2011.
This secured the 4 Overview Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2012 Resources and Environmental for 18 exploration drilling Policy and Planning ONEP, a V i {xLV part of the Ministry of Natural The EIAs are expected to Resources and Environment be approved in the second and discussed by a panel of half of 2013. experts, at which a consensus must be reached to allow approval of the EIA.
The experts panel, known as the Technical Review Committee TRC, can approve, approve with conditions, or not approve.
However, the TRC will provide feedback on the EIA submission which could range from clarification on a few minor matters to major concerns on crucial issues.
The time required to respond will vary depending upon the questions raised.
In 2012 Salamander 12 successfully applied for EIA approval for the installation of the Bravo platform and 1 Drill cuttings being received this in a timely removed from the rig manner enabling the platform ahead of being to be installed to schedule, incinerated on-land once construction was 2 Overseeing operations completed.
The knowledge in the Bualuang eld and understanding of this process is now being applied 3 The heavy lift in order to secure EIA approval vessel installing the 3 Bravo Platform PSC and allowed LiVii`L Salamander and PLN to start Engineering and procurement development activities.
of the gas processing facility is well underway.
The Kerendan eld is located in a forested area and prior The PLN transmission system to all activities it is necessary to linking the power plant to secure forestry permits and to the Kalimantan grid is under acquire land.
These processes construction and the PLN are complex and can be power plant contract will be lengthy with overlapping awarded soon.
The integrated land claims being common.
project is scheduled for Despite these challenges start-up mid-2014.
construction of infrastructure, Despite the complexity of including a river base on the the project and the challenging banks of the Barito River, a operating environment, the road network and the drilling Kerendan gas to power project pad, was completed in was able to be created and mid-2012.
implemented within a fast A drilling rig was contracted track project schedule.
and upgraded to cope with This project has created the the high reservoir pressures in infrastructure to allow for 45 the Kerendan eld and was rapid commercialisation of transported by barge from additional reserves and Batam island near Singapore future discoveries.
to Banjarmasin in southern Kalimantan, then 520 km up the Barito River to the river 4 Access road to the base where it was transferred Kerendan drilling site to trucks and moved a further 5 Helicopter arriving at 45 km by purpose built road Kerendan well site to the Kerendan cluster well pad.
Development drilling 6 The DrillCo-1 operating started in mid-2012 and will at the Kerendan 6 Cluster Site 5 Overview Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2012
