Accounting policies and presentation of financial information continued vV` Vi` The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Revenues and the results of subsidiary undertakings are consolidated in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income from the dates on which control over the operating and financial decisions is obtained.
7iiiVi ] `i i `iiiv-L` ` 6ii iL}i Accounting Policies into line with those used by the Group.
Commercial reserves Commercial reserves are proved and probable oil and gas reserves, which are dened as the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical and engineering data demonstrate with a specified degree of certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and which are considered commercially viable.
There should be a 50% statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable reserves will be more than the amount estimated as proven and probable reserves and a 50% statistical probability that it will be less.
Joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Where a Group Company undertakes its activities under joint venture arrangements directly, the Groups share of jointly controlled assets and any liabilities incurred jointly with other ventures are recognised in the Financial Statements of the relevant company and classied according to their nature.
Liabilities and expenses incurred directly in respect of interests in jointly controlled assets are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Income from the sale or use of the Groups share of the output of jointly controlled assets, and its share of joint venture expenses, are recognised when it is probable that the economic benets associated with the transaction will ow to from the Group and their amount can be measured reliably.
Joint venture arrangements which involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has ii iivii` Vi`ii i iiiVi` entities using proportionate consolidation, that is, the Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of jointly controlled entities that are combined with the equivalent items in consolidated Financial - ii iLiL Where the Group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture.
"Acquisitions "" V wi LiVL VV` Vi, -q i L ] the assets and liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair value as at the date of acquisition."
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill which is treated as an intangible asset.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired is credited to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period of acquisition.
75 Financial statements Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2012
