Statement of accounting policies and general information continued Critical judgements and accounting estimates In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies described above, management has made judgements and estimates that may have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Financial Statements.
Commercial reserves Management is required to assess the level of the Groups commercial reserves together with the future expenditures to access those reserves, which are utilised in determining the amortisation and depreciation charge for the period and assessing whether any impairment charge is required.
The Group employs independent reserves specialists who periodically report on the Groups level of commercial reserves by evaluating the estimates of the Groups in house reserves specialists and where necessary referencing geological, geophysical and engineering data together with reports, presentation and financial information pertaining to the contractual and scal terms applicable to the Groups assets.
In addition the Group undertakes its own assessment of commercial reserves and related future capital expenditure by reference to the same datasets using its own internal expertise.
The estimates adopted by the Group may differ from the independent reserves specialists estimates where management considers that adjustments are appropriate in the circumstances.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, the Group has adopted reserves consistent with the level of reserves assessed by its independent reserves specialist.
Carrying value of intangible xed assets Management is required to assess intangible xed assets for impairment with reference to the indicators `i`, -q v v i, iVi iiV` i` V Statements discloses the carrying value of such assets.
Business combination Management is required to determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired under a business combination including the cost of the acquisition and allocate a fair value cost to the underlying assets acquired.
There were no transactions in the current year that qualied as a business combination.
Carry value of property plant and equipment Management is required to review and potentially test property plant and equipment for impairment usually Li } i iivi V ii` `V } iiiL v i iLi}V i`i Vi-ii-V ii`i i L ii estimates to be made of, in particular, future commodity prices, production volumes, capital operating ii`i ` ii `V i i vVi i iiVi year are provided in note 12 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
Short-term borrowings Management, in regard to its respective borrowings as set out in note 20 of the consolidated Financial Statements, is required to estimate the amount of borrowings that are classied as due within one year and the amount that is classied as due after one year, as the calculations are based on uncertain future assumptions such as oil price and other economic factors.
Provision for decommissioning In recording a provision for decommissioning, management is required to make estimates as to the legal requirements, related costs, timing of work and the discount rate.
82 Financial statements Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2012
