Section 5 | Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 29.
Financial risk management continued 29 f Price risk The Group is exposed to commodity price risk through its joint venture rail operations due to the volatility in the price of fuel.
The maturity prole of the commodity derivative used by the joint venture to reduce this risk is as follows: Maturity Notional Payable value xed rate 2012 2012 Million litres p per litre January 2013 September 2013 29.9 44.81 September 2013 March 2014 22.3 48.70 Maturity Notional Payable value xed rate 2011 2011 Million litres p per litre January 2012 September 2013 64.6 44.81 The commodity derivative is designated as a cash ow hedge and is highly effective.
As at 31 December 2012 a fair value gain of 1.0m 2011: 2.4m gain has been deferred in the hedging reserve.
This gain is expected to be recognised in the consolidated income statement in future periods.
Price risk sensitivity An increase of US Dollar 0.2 0.13 per litre in the price of fuel at the balance sheet date would result in a gain of 3.3m in equity 2011: 4.2m gain.
The sensitivity to changes in fuel prices resulting from changes in exchange rates is included within the currency sensitivity analysis see note 29 d. 29 g Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables.
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty could default on its contractual obligations.
In this regard, the Groups principle exposure is to cash and cash equivalents, derivative transactions and trade receivables.
The Groups trade receivables credit risk is relatively low given that a high proportion of our customer base are government bodies with strong sovereign, or sovereign like, credit ratings.
However, where the assessed credit worthiness of a customer, government or non government, falls below that considered acceptable, appropriate measures are taken to mitigate against the risk of contractual default using instruments such as credit guarantees.
The Groups Treasury function only transacts with counterparties that comply with Board policy.
The credit risk is measured by way of a counterparty credit rating and as a minimum any counterparty must have a long term public rating of Single A from any two recognised rating agencies.
Pre approved limits are set based on a rating matrix and exposures monitored accordingly.
The Group also employs the use of set-off rights in some agreements.
29 h Capital risk The Group defines capital as equity, debt capital market issuance, loans and borrowings and cash and cash equivalents.
The Group does not have any externally imposed requirements for managing capital, other than those imposed by Company Law.
The Boards objective is to maintain a capital structure that supports the Groups strategic objectives, including but not limited to reshaping the portfolio through mergers, acquisitions and disposals.
In doing so the Board seeks to manage funding and liquidity risk, optimise shareholder return and maintain an implied investment grade credit position.
This strategy is unchanged from the prior year.
The Board reviews and approves at least annually a treasury policy document which covers, inter alia, funding and liquidity risk, capital structure and risk management.
This policy details targets for committed funding headroom, diversication of committed funding and debt maturity prole.
The Articles of Association of Serco Group plc require that the net borrowings of Serco Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings shall not at any time without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution exceed three and a half times adjusted capital and reserves.
The Group ensures that sufficient funds and distributable reserves are held to allow payments of projected dividends to shareholders and it intends to pursue a policy of dividend growth that broadly reects the increase in underlying earnings of the business.
158 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012
