Section 5 | Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General information Serco Group plc the Group is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered ofce is Serco House, 16 Bartley Wood Business Park, Bartley Way, Hook, Hampshire, RG27 9UY.
These consolidated financial statements the financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
2. significant accounting policies Basis of accounting These financial statements on pages 116 to 176 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
The following principal accounting policies adopted have been applied consistently in the current and preceding financial year except as stated below.
As discussed in more detail in the Finance Review, these financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Adoption of new and revised Standards The following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
IFRS 1 amended Severe Hyperination and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters The amendments provide guidance for entities preparing financial statements in accordance with IFRS after a period when their functional currency was subject to severe hyperination.
They also remove references to a xed transition date to eliminate the need for companies adopting IFRSs for the first time after 1 January 2004 to restate derecognition transactions that occurred before the date of transition to IFRSs.
IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets These amendments are intended to provide greater transparency around risk exposures of transactions where a financial asset is transferred but the transferor retains some level of continuing exposure referred to as continuing involvement in the asset.
IAS 12 amended Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets The amendment provides a practical solution to the problem by introducing a presumption that recovery of the carrying amount will normally be through sale.
IAS 1 amended Presentation of Items in Other Comprehensive Income This amendment increases the required level of disclosure within the statement of comprehensive income.
Improvements to IFRSs 2011 Aside from those items already identied above, the amendments made to standards under the 2011 improvements of IFRS have had no impact on the Group.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and entities jointly controlled by the Company its joint ventures up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries and joint ventures acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries and joint ventures to bring accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
120 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012
