Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below and have been applied consistently throughout the current and preceding year as restated.
Basis of accounting The Company meets the denition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 Financial Reporting Standard 100 issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Accordingly, in the year ended 31 December 2012 the Company has undergone transition from reporting under UK GAAP to FRS 101 as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The financial statements have therefore been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
This transition is not considered to have had a material effect on the financial statements.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, presentation of a cash-ow statement, standards not yet effective, impairment of assets and related party transactions.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis and on the going concern basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
Fixed asset investments Investments held as xed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Share-based payment The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees and operates an HMRC approved Save As You Earn SAYE share option scheme open to eligible employees which allows the purchase of shares at a discount.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
SAYE options are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme, resulting in an acceleration of the remainder of the related expense.
Where the fair value of share options requires the use of a valuation model, fair value is measured by use of the Binomial Lattice or Monte Carlo Simulation models depending on the type of scheme.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take account of market conditions applicable to the option.
Dividends Dividends are approved by the Board of Directors, and recorded in the Companys financial statements in the period in which they are declared, appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Company enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage the exposure to interest rate foreign exchange risk and price risk, including currency swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity future contracts.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Company designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or rm commitments fair value hedges, hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk of rm commitments cash ow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
A derivative is presented as a xed asset or a creditor: falling due after more than one year if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or creditors: amounts falling due within one year.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and these are not measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Hedge accounting The Company designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives, embedded derivatives and non-derivatives in respect of foreign exchange risk, as either fair value hedges, cash ow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Hedges of foreign exchange risk on highly probable forecast transactions and rm commitments are accounted for as cash ow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows of the hedged item.
Movements in the hedging and translation reserve in equity are detailed in the SOCI and described in note 12.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 179 Financial statements
