Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2 above, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements apart from those involving estimations which are dealt with below.
Revenue and profit recognition of long-term project-based contracts Revenue and profit is recognised for certain long-term project-based contracts based on the stage of completion of the contract activity.
This is measured by the proportion of costs incurred to estimated whole-life contract costs.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the future cash ows of cash-generating units and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, which involves judgement, to calculate present values see note 15.
The carrying value of goodwill is 1,312.3m 2011: 1,259.0m at the balance sheet date.
Retirement benefit obligations The calculation of retirement benefit obligations is dependent on material key assumptions including discount rates, future returns on assets and future contribution rates see note 30.
The value of net retirement benefit obligations at the balance sheet date is 201.3m 2011: 156.4m.
Details of the impact of changes in assumptions relating to retirement benefit obligations are disclosed in the Finance Review page 58. Business combinations The calculation of fair values associated with business combinations requires the use of judgement in determining the future economic inows and outows associated with the acquired assets and liabilities.
This includes the estimation of contingent deferred consideration and intangibles arising on acquisition.
As permitted by IFRS 3 2008, provisional amounts are recognised for acquired net assets during the measurement period where complete information about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date is not available at the reporting date.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Rendering of services 4,823.0 4,481.3 Revenue from long-term project-based contracts 90.0 165.1 Revenue as disclosed in the consolidated income statement 4,913.0 4,646.4 Investment revenue note 9 12.4 12.2 Operating lease income 0.9 0.7 Total revenue as dened in IAS 18 4,926.3 4,659.3 5.
Segmental information Information reported to the Chief Operating Decision Maker for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance focuses on the categories of customer identied using their respective markets.
Details of the different products and services provided by each operating segment are included in the Our business and Our performance sections of this report.
From 1 April 2012, the Group has reapportioned its business into four segments resulting in a restatement of the 2011 segmental information.
The Groups reportable operating segments under IFRS 8 Operating Segments are: Reportable Segments Operating Segments UK & Europe UK and Europe frontline services in areas including home affairs, defence, health, transportation and local government direct services: Americas US defence, intelligence and federal civilian agencies operations, and Canadian operations: AMEAA Frontline contracts in Australasia, Middle East, Asia including Hong Kong and India and Africa: and Global Services Global BPO middle and back ofce services The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 2.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 129 Financial statements
