Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below and have been applied consistently throughout the current and preceding year as restated.
Basis of accounting The Company meets the denition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 Financial Reporting Standard 100 issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Accordingly, in the year ended 31 December 2012 the Company has undergone transition from reporting under UK GAAP to FRS 101 as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The financial statements have therefore been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
This transition is not considered to have had a material effect on the financial statements.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, presentation of a cash-ow statement, standards not yet effective, impairment of assets and related party transactions.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis and on the going concern basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
Fixed asset investments Investments held as xed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Share-based payment The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees and operates an HMRC approved Save As You Earn SAYE share option scheme open to eligible employees which allows the purchase of shares at a discount.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
SAYE options are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme, resulting in an acceleration of the remainder of the related expense.
Where the fair value of share options requires the use of a valuation model, fair value is measured by use of the Binomial Lattice or Monte Carlo Simulation models depending on the type of scheme.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take account of market conditions applicable to the option.
Dividends Dividends are approved by the Board of Directors, and recorded in the Companys financial statements in the period in which they are declared, appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Company enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage the exposure to interest rate foreign exchange risk and price risk, including currency swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity future contracts.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Company designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or rm commitments fair value hedges, hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk of rm commitments cash ow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
A derivative is presented as a xed asset or a creditor: falling due after more than one year if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or creditors: amounts falling due within one year.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and these are not measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Hedge accounting The Company designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives, embedded derivatives and non-derivatives in respect of foreign exchange risk, as either fair value hedges, cash ow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Hedges of foreign exchange risk on highly probable forecast transactions and rm commitments are accounted for as cash ow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows of the hedged item.
Movements in the hedging and translation reserve in equity are detailed in the SOCI and described in note 12.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 179 Financial statements Section 5 | Financial statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1.
Accounting policies continued Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the income statement relating to the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Company revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualies for hedge accounting.
The adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.
Cash ow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts deferred in equity are reclassied to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash ow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity and accumulated in the hedging and translation reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is included in the net exchange gain loss on translation of foreign operations line item.
Gains and losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are reclassied to profit or loss in the same way as exchange differences relating to the foreign operations.
Net investments in foreign operations Exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the Companys net investment in foreign operations are initially recognised in equity and accumulated in the hedging and translation reserve and reclassied from equity to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
Tax The tax expense represents the sum of current tax expense and deferred tax expense.
Current tax expense is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for accounting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which these items can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset and liability in a transaction other than a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the Company is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based upon tax rates and legislation that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
180 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012
