Computershare can also be contacted by telephone on 0870707 1290.
Shareholders can also manage their holding online by registering at www.
'LYLGHQGV Shareholders who do not currently have their dividends paid directly to a bank or building society account and who wish to do so should complete a mandate form obtainable from Computershare.
Tax vouchers are sent to the shareholders registered address under this arrangement, unless requested otherwise.
Shareholders are strongly encouraged to receive their cash dividends by direct transfer as this ensures dividends are credited promptly and efficiently.
Overseas Shareholders wishing to receive their dividend payment in local currency can now do so using the Global Payments Service offered by our Registrars.
The benets include, automatic currency conversion into local currency over 100 countries worldwide, faster receipt of funds by being credited directly to your bank account and no risk of lost cheques.
To action this service go to www.
co. uk payments, enter the Company name and your Shareholder Reference Number and add your payment instruction you will need your bank details.
RZ FRVW VKDUH GHDOLQJ VHUYLFH A low cost, execution only share-dealing service for the purchase and sale of Shanks Group plc shares is available from NatWestStockbrokers who are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority and are a member ofthe LondonStock Exchange.
NatWest Stockbrokers, Suite 1 1, 3 Minster Court, Mincing Lane, London EC3R 7DD.
6KDUH SULFH LQIRUPDWLRQ On 31 March 2012, the middle market price of Shanks Group plc ordinary 10 pence shares was 98.75 pence per share, having varied during the year between a low of 89.5 pence and a high of 131.5 pence.
Share price information on Shanks Group plc iswidely available in the financial press and on financial websites.
The ISIN International Securities Identication Number code forthe Companys ordinary shares is GB0007995243 and the SEDOL Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List number is 0799524.
6KDUH LIW If shareholders have only a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell, they may wish to consider donatingthem to the charity ShareGift registered charity no.
Further information may be obtained from their website atwww.
&RPSDQ ZHEVLWHV The Shanks Group plc website, containing Company details, financial information and current news can be found at www.
The website for Shanks companies within Belgium can be found at www.
be, for the Netherlands atwww.
nl, for the United Kingdom at www.
co. uk and for Canada at www.
2WKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 OHFWURQLF VKDUHKROGHU FRPPXQLFDWLRQ Shareholders may elect to receive future shareholder documents and information by email or via the Companys website.
Thisisintended to help the environment by reducing paper and transport as well as enabling the Company to save on administration, printing and postage costs.
The Shanks Group plc website contains copies of our financial reports, corporate news and other shareholder information.
Shareholder information will be made available by way of publication on the website.
Shareholders have the following options: Option A.
Receive email notication that documents and information are available on the Shanks Group plc website.
You may choose this option by registering your email address at www.
You will require your Shareholder Reference Number which can be found on either your Share Certicate or recent Dividend Certicate Tax Voucher.
Ifyou choose this option, we will plant a tree under the Woodland Trusts tree for all campaign.
Receive all documents and information by post.
Option C. Receive notication by post that documents and information including the Annual Report are available on the ShanksGroup plc website.
You may change your mind as to how you receive your shareholder information at any time by notifying Computershare.
Youmayalso request a hard copy of a particular document at any time from the Company.
6KDUH IUDXG ZDUQLQJ In recent years many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turns out to be worthless, high risk or non-existent shares.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
It is not just the novice investor who has been duped in this way: Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
While high profits are promised, those who buy and sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
3URWHFW RXUVHOI If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, you should take these steps before handing over any money: Make sure you get the name of the person and organisation contacting you: Check the FSA Register at www.
uk fsaregister to ensure they are authorised: Use the details on the FSA Register to contact the rm: Call the FSA Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234 if there are no contact details on the Register or you are advised they are outof date or complete an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts form.
shtml: The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas rms who are targeting, or have targeted UK investors: and Inform our Registrars on 0870 707 1290.
If you use an unauthorised rm to buy or sell shares or other investments, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
5HSRUW D VFDP If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FSA using the fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, whereyou can also nd out about the latest investment scams or call the Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234.
Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
LQDQFLDO FDOHQGDU 4 July 2012 Ex-dividend date for final 2012 dividend 6 July 2012 Record date for final 2012 dividend 19 July 2012 Annual General Meeting 1 August 2012 Payment of final 2012 dividend 8 November 2012 Announcement of interim results and dividend 5 December 2012 Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 7 December 2012 Record date for interim dividend 11 January 2013 Payment of interim dividend 31 March 2013 2013 financial year-ends May 2013 Announcement of 2013 results and dividend recommendation For updates to the calendar during the year, please visit the Shanks Group website www.
