Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV The market in which we operate 2XU PDUNHWV 2XU ZDVWH SURFHVVLQJ F FOH The primary markets in which Shanks operates are set out on The chart below shows the waste management cycle and page 6.
The demand dynamics, our strengths in these markets, wherewe operate.
Shanks has a distinct position in this industry thecompetitive environment and growth opportunities are structure and we have a reputation as a leading provider explained below.
ofsustainable alternatives to landll and mass incineration.
Wefocusour activities on sustainable waste solutions Across the world, governments are urging the waste industry andmaking more from waste.
tosupport them in recovering more resources and energy fromwaste.
Thedriving factors behind this are climate change, the price and security of fossil fuels andthe need for society at large to develop sustainable waste solutions.
Through legislation and scal incentives, governments are forcing and encouraging everyone to think about recovering more resources from waste.
2XU UROH LQ WKH ZDVWH PDQDJHPHQW F FOH 2XU FRUH DFWLYLWLHV &ROOHFW 6RUW 3URGXFH 'LVSRVH 6RUW ZDVWH LQWR VSHFLILF 3URGXFH YDOXDEOH Collect and deliver to Dispose of waste waste management UHF FODWHV DQG VWUHDPV SURGXFWV IURP VHJUHJDWHG through incineration facilities or landll IRU IXUWKHU WUHDWPHQW ZDVWH VWUHDPV Shanks activity Shanks activity whereneeded to whenrequired for securevolume non-recyclable output 8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 &ROOHFW 6RUW 3URGXFH 'LVSRVH In some industrial and We invest in highly automated We process segregated waste We have to pay to dispose commercial markets it is sorting facilities including streams into valuable recyclate ofany non-recycled incoming helpful to have a eet of high-tech separation products which are used by waste either through landll or collection vehicles available processes suchas automatic reprocessors to replace virgin incineration.
Given our strategy toensure delivery of the optical sorting to sort waste raw materials.
We have a of providing sustainable baseload of waste to our into specic recyclates and market-leading position in the solutions we avoid investment processing plants alongside streams forfurther treatment.
conversion of waste to high in the high capital requirements waste from other third party caloric value fuels.
These fuels of mass incineration and have Examples of sorting collectors.
For the UK include SRF solid recovered a limited investment in landll.
processes: municipal markets, a fuel and wood biomass, both Eddy current separation of collection eet is less of which are used as a fossil non-ferrous metals important as the contract fuel substitute by power Magnet separation of ferrous withthe municipality usually generators and cement metals provides for the waste to be manufacturers.
Our Organics delivered to our plants.
We try technology focuses on food Trommels and sieves to avoid highly competitive wasteand the generation of Depackaging municipal collections unless biogas for conversion into Manual sorting cabin backed bylong-term renewable energy.
InOrganics, our Hazardous Waste sector we focus is on the treatment treat contaminated soils, water plants and we rely on others and paint.
After treatment the to bring the waste to us.
products are either used as alternative sources of fuel, for other activities such as land reclamation, or discharged back into the water systems.
05 Paper Plastic Metal Responsible Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV The market environment 6ROLG :DVWH D]DUGRXV :DVWH 2UJDQLFV 8.
0XQLFLSDO Demand dynamics Demand dynamics Demand dynamics Demand dynamics This is a cyclical local business The market is characterised by The market covers long-term The market is based oncontracted linked to the macro economy and international clean up projects municipal contracts together with volumes secured as part of 20 typically involves annualcontracts.
medium-term industrial contracts to25 year contracts.
typically linked to the food sector.
How Shanks wins How Shanks wins How Shanks wins How Shanks wins We have an entrepreneurial We have world-class treatment Our Organics business, A leading player in the UK Private approach to customer facing capability with best-in-class Orgaworld, has significant Finance Initiative PFI Public activities andindepth knowledge equipment and plant productivity experience in the design, build, Private Partnership PPP market of local markets which results in a and deliver outstanding service optimisation and operation of providing an outstanding strong regionalised market share.
Our principal hazardous organics installations.
We offer operational service to the local This is complemented by a waste subsidiary in the awide scope of processing authorities.
Shanks had the first centralframework for sharing Netherlands, ATM, is the market techniques for the total range MBT plant in the UK which has technologies.
leader in its eld for the treatment oforganic waste focusing on been operational since 2006 of contaminated soil and waste traceability and sustainability.
andwe are now running five Competitive environment water.
Recent investments in operational contracts, working Competitive environment There remains an excess capacity thewaste water facilities have onthe delivery of the infrastructure in the Continental European increased our storage capacity The number of players in the for one contract and preferred incineration market.
Although tomatch the increased demand.
UKmarket offering Organic bidder for another contract.
thisdoes not directly impact our The Hazardous Waste businesses processing has increased over Competitive environment Benelux businesses as we do work with the Solid Waste thelast few years.
There is limited notown mass incineration assets, businesses under the banner of competition in North America The PFI PPP market remains it does have a significant indirect Total Care, to provide customers where our competitors are unable active asanumber of local impact and is exerting downward with a combined solution for to achieve stringent technical authorities stillneed to enter pressure on overall gate prices.
Thefunding market Wehave taken action to mitigate isbecoming more difficult with Competitive environment Growth opportunities this through management of costs self-nancing becoming more and maximising the efficiency This is a specialised market with There is an increasing focus advantageous.
We expect that this asmall number of players given onOrganics as a technology.
Growth opportunities over capacity will gradually be the level of investment required to TheNorth American markets removed from the system as the establish competitive operations.
areevolving rapidly and enforcing We adopt a disciplined approach economy recovers, waste imports an increasing level of regulation tocontract bidding.
There is Growth opportunities increase and less efficient plant inthe drive for sustainable theopportunity for technology isretired.
Although the business is located solutions to reduce the level leverage, inparticular with only inour core countries we do ofwaste going to landll.
Growth opportunities seek to dobusiness on a wider The markets in the Benelux are scale.
For example, at our ATM well developed with regard to facility soil from many parts of the recycling rates and diversion world is treated before being used fromlandll.
Thisknowledge for land reclamation in the isshared with our UK business Netherlands.
asthe UK market implements EUlegislation onrecycling anddiversion rates.
&RPSHWLWLYH SRVLWLRQ Shanks has a distinct position amongst other large waste competitors due to itssustainable activities compared with landll and mass incineration.
