Notes to the consolidated financial statements The Companys principal revenue streams and their respective 1.
Description of operations accounting treatments are discussed below: Shire plc and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as either i Product sales Shire, or the Company is a leading specialty biopharmaceutical Revenue for the sale of products is recognized when delivery has company that focuses on meeting the needs of the specialist occurred and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership physician.
have been transferred to the customer.
Provisions for rebates, The Company has grown through acquisition, completing a series product returns and discounts to customers are provided for as of major transactions that have brought therapeutic, geographic reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are and pipeline growth and diversication.
The Company will continue recorded.
The provisions made at the time of revenue recognition to evaluate companies, products and pipeline opportunities that are based on historical experience and updated for changes in offer a good strategic t and have the potential to deliver facts and circumstances including the impact of new legislation.
demonstrable value to all our stakeholders: patients, physicians, The provisions are recognized as a reduction to revenues.
policy makers, payors, investors and employees.
ii Royalty income Royalty income relating to licensed technology is recognized when the licensee sells the underlying product, with the amount of royalty 2.
Summary of significant accounting income recorded based on sales information received from the policies relevant licensee.
The Company estimates sales amounts and related royalty income based on the historical product information a Basis of preparation for any period that the sales information is not available from the The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the relevant licensee.
accounts of Shire plc, all of its subsidiary undertakings and the Income Access Share trust, after elimination of intercompany iii Licensing revenues accounts and transactions.
They have been prepared in Other revenue includes revenues derived from product outaccordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the licensing arrangements, which typically consist of an initial up-front United States of America US GAAP and US Securities and payment on inception of the license and subsequent milestone Exchange Commission SEC regulations for annual reporting.
payments contingent on the achievement of certain clinical and sales milestones.
Product out-licensing arrangements often require b Use of estimates in consolidated financial statements the Company to provide multiple deliverables to the licensee.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in conformity with US GAAP and SEC regulations, requires management to Initial license fees received in connection with product out-licensing make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts agreements entered into prior to January 1, 2011 are deferred and of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and recognized over the period in which the Company has continuing liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and substantive performance obligations, typically the period over reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting which the Company participates in the development of the period.
Estimates and assumptions are primarily made in relation to out-licensed product, even where such fees are non-refundable the valuation of intangible assets, the valuation of equity and not creditable against future royalty payments.
investments, sales deductions, income taxes including provisions For product out-licensing arrangements entered into, or subject to for uncertain tax positions and the realization of deferred tax material modication, after January 1, 2011, consideration received assets, provisions for litigation and legal proceedings, contingent is allocated between each of the separable elements in the consideration receivable from product divestments and contingent arrangement using the relative selling price method.
An element is consideration payable in respect of business combinations and considered separable if it has value to the customer on a standasset purchases.
If actual results differ from the Companys alone basis.
The selling price used for each separable element will estimates, or to the extent these estimates are adjusted in future be based on vendor specic objective evidence VSOE if periods, the Companys results of operations could either benefit available, third party evidence if VSOE is not available, or estimated from, or be adversely affected by, any such change in estimate.
selling price if neither VSOE nor third party evidence is available.
c Revenue recognition Revenue is then recognized as each of the separable elements to The Company recognizes revenue when all of the following which the revenue has been allocated is delivered.
conditions are met: Milestone payments which are non-refundable, non-creditable and Q there is persuasive evidence of an agreement or arrangement: contingent on achieving certain clinical milestones are recognized as revenues either on achievement of such milestones if the Q delivery of products has occurred or services have milestones are considered substantive or over the period the been rendered: Company has continuing substantive performance obligations, if Q the sellers price to the buyer is xed or determinable: and the milestones are not considered substantive.
If milestone payments are creditable against future royalty payments, the Q collectability is reasonably assured.
milestones are deferred and released over the period in which the Where applicable, all revenues are stated net of value added and royalties are anticipated to be paid.
similar taxes, and trade discounts.
No revenue is recognized for consideration, the value or receipt of which is dependent on future events or future performance.
82 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements f Cost of product sales 2.
Summary of significant accounting Cost of product sales includes the cost of purchasing nished policies continued product for sale, the cost of raw materials and manufacturing for those products that are manufactured by the Company, shipping d Sales deductions and handling costs, depreciation and amortization of intangible i Rebates assets in respect of favorable manufacturing contracts.
Royalties Rebates primarily consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid payable on products to which the Company does not own the agencies and contractual rebates with health-maintenance rights are also included in Cost of product sales.
These rebates are based on price differentials between a base price and the selling price.
As a result, rebates g Leased assets generally increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life The costs of operating leases are charged to operations on a of the product as prices increase.
Provisions for rebates are straight-line basis over the lease term, even if rental payments are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the not made on such a basis.
related sales are recorded, with the amount of the rebate based on Assets acquired under capital leases are included in the the Companys best estimate if any uncertainty exists over the unit consolidated balance sheet as property, plant and equipment and rebate amount, and with estimates of future utilization derived from are depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease or their historical trends.
The capital element of future lease payments is ii Returns recorded as a liability, while the interest element is charged to The Company estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that operations over the period of the lease to produce a level yield on will result in a return, based on historical trends and when the balance of the capital lease obligation.
applicable, specic factors affecting certain products at the h Advertising expense balance sheet date.
The accrual is recorded as a reduction to The Company expenses the cost of advertising as incurred.
revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
Advertising costs amounted to $85.8 million, $122.5 million and iii Coupons $93.3 million for the years to December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The Company uses coupons as a form of sales incentive.
An respectively and were included within Selling, general and accrual is established based on the Companys expectation of the administrative SG&A expenses.
level of coupon redemption, estimated using historical trends.
The i Research and development R&D expense accrual is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period as R&D costs are expensed as incurred.
Up-front and milestone the related sales are recorded or the date the coupon is offered, if payments made to third parties for in-licensed products that have later than the date the related sales are recorded.
not yet received marketing approval and for which no alternative iv Discounts future use has been identied are also expensed as incurred.
The Company offers cash discounts to customers for the early Milestone payments made to third parties on and subsequent to payment of receivables which are recorded as reductions to regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets, and revenue and accounts receivable in the same period as the related amortized over the remaining useful life of the related product.
j Valuation and impairment of long-lived assets other than v Wholesaler chargebacks goodwill, indefinite lived intangible assets and investments The Company has contractual agreements whereby it supplies The Company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets certain products to third parties at predetermined prices.
other than goodwill, indefinite lived intangible assets and Wholesalers acting as intermediaries in these transactions are investments for impairment whenever events or changes in reimbursed by the Company if the predetermined prices are less circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the relevant than the prices paid by the wholesaler to the Company.
Accruals assets may not be recoverable.
When such a determination is for wholesaler chargebacks, which are based on historical trends, made, managements estimate of undiscounted cash ows to be are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the generated by the use and ultimate disposition of these assets is related sales are recorded.
compared to the carrying value of the assets to determine whether e Collaborative arrangements the carrying value is recoverable.
If the carrying value is deemed The Company enters into collaborative arrangements to develop not to be recoverable, the amount of the impairment recognized in and commercialize drug candidates.
These collaborative the consolidated financial statements is determined by estimating arrangements often require up-front, milestone, royalty or profit the fair value of the relevant assets and recording an impairment share payments, or a combination of these, with payments often loss for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the contingent upon the success of the related development and estimated fair value.
This fair value is usually determined based on commercialization efforts.
Collaboration agreements entered into estimated discounted cash ows.
by the Company may also include expense reimbursements or k Finance costs of debt other such payments to the collaborating partner.
Finance costs relating to debt issued are recorded as a deferred The Company reports costs incurred and revenue generated from charge and amortized to the consolidated statements of income transactions with third parties as well as payments between parties over the period to the earliest redemption date of the debt, using to collaborative arrangements either on a gross or net basis, the effective interest rate method.
On extinguishment of the related depending on the characteristics of the collaborative relationship.
debt, any unamortized deferred nancing costs are written off and charged to interest expense in the consolidated statements of income.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements o Share based compensation 2.
Summary of significant accounting Share based compensation represents the cost of share based policies continued awards granted to employees.
The Company measures share based compensation cost for awards classied as equity at the l Foreign currency grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated Predominantly all of the Companys awards have service and or into the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary in which they performance conditions and the fair values of these awards are arise at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the For share based compensation awards which cliff vest, the transaction.
Transaction gains and losses, other than those related Company recognizes the cost of the relevant share based payment to current and deferred tax assets and liabilities, are recognized in award as an expense on a straight-line basis net of estimated arriving at income from operations before income taxes and equity forfeitures over the employees requisite service period.
For those in earnings of equity method investees.
Transaction gains and share based compensation awards with a graded vesting losses arising on foreign currency denominated current and schedule, the Company recognizes the cost of the relevant share deferred tax assets and liabilities are included within income taxes based payment award as an expense on a straight-line basis net in the consolidated statements of income.
of estimated forfeitures over the requisite service period for the entire award that is, over the requisite service period for the last The results of operations for subsidiaries, whose functional separately vesting portion of the award.
The share based currency is not the US Dollar, are translated into the US Dollar compensation expense is recorded in Cost of product sales, R&D, at the average rates of exchange during the period, with the and SG&A in the consolidated statements of income based on the subsidiaries balance sheets translated at the rates ruling at the employees respective functions.
The cumulative effect of exchange rate movements is included in a separate component of Other The Company records deferred tax assets for awards that result in comprehensive income.
deductions on the Companys income tax returns, based on the amount of compensation cost recognized and the Companys Foreign currency exchange transaction losses gains included in statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which it will receive a consolidated statements of income in the years to December 31, deduction.
Differences between the deferred tax assets recognized 2012, 2011 and 2010 amounted to a loss of $3.5 million, a loss of for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction $2.1 million and a gain of $1.7 million, respectively.
reported on the Companys income tax return are recorded in m Income taxes additional paid-in capital if the tax deduction exceeds the deferred Uncertain tax positions are recognized in the consolidated financial tax asset or in the consolidated statements of income if the statements for positions which are considered more likely than not deferred tax asset exceeds the tax deduction and no additional of being sustained, based on the technical merits of the position on paid-in capital exists from previous awards.
audit by the tax authorities.
The measurement of the tax benefit The Companys share based compensation plans are described recognized in the consolidated financial statements is based upon more fully in Note 28. the largest amount of tax benefit that, in managements judgment, is greater than 50% likely of being realized based on a cumulative p Cash and cash equivalents probability assessment of the possible outcomes.
The Company Cash and cash equivalents are dened as short term highly liquid recognizes interest relating to unrecognized tax benets and investments with original maturities of ninety days or less.
q Financial instruments derivatives Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for differences The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with third party consolidated financial statements and the tax bases of assets and transactions and intercompany nancing.
These instruments liabilities that will result in future taxable or deductible amounts.
The consist of swap and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted Company does not apply hedge accounting for these instruments.
tax laws and rates applicable to the periods in which the The fair values of these instruments are included on the balance differences are expected to affect taxable income.
sheet in current assets liabilities, with changes in the fair value recognized in the consolidated statements of income.
The cash Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in ows relating to these instruments are presented within net cash the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some provided by operating activities in the consolidated statement of portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
cash ows, unless the derivative instruments are economically n Earnings per share hedging specic investing or nancing activities.
Basic earnings per share is based upon net income attributable to r Inventories Shire plc divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market value.
Shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is Cost incurred in bringing each product to its present location based upon net income attributable to Shire plc adjusted for the and condition is based on purchase costs calculated on a first-in, impact of interest expense on convertible debt on an if-converted first-out basis, including transportation costs.
basis when the effect is dilutive divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary Share equivalents outstanding during the period, adjusted for the dilutive effect of all potential Ordinary Shares equivalents that were outstanding during the year.
Such potentially dilutive shares are excluded when the effect would be to increase diluted earnings per share or reduce the diluted loss per share.
84 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements All other equity investments, which consist of investments for which 2.
Summary of significant accounting the Company does not have the ability to exercise significant policies continued inuence, are accounted for under the cost method or at fair value.
Investments in private companies are carried at cost, less Inventories include costs relating to both marketed products and, provisions for other than temporary impairment in value.
For public for certain products, cost incurred prior to regulatory approval.
companies that have readily determinable fair values, the Company Inventories are capitalized prior to regulatory approval if the classies its equity investments as available for sale and, Company considers that it is probable that the US Food and Drug accordingly, records these investments at their fair values with Administration FDA or another regulatory body will grant unrealized holding gains and losses included in the consolidated commercial and manufacturing approval for the relevant product, statement of comprehensive income, net of any related tax effect.
and it is probable that the value of capitalized inventories will be Realized gains and losses, and declines in value of available for recovered through commercial sale.
sale securities judged to be other than temporary, are included in Inventories are written down for estimated obsolescence or other income, net see Note 25.
The cost of securities sold is unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of based on the specic identication method.
Interest on securities inventory and estimated market value based upon assumptions classied as available for sale are included as interest income.
about future demand and market conditions.
If actual market u Property, plant and equipment conditions are less favorable than those anticipated, inventory Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost reduced for adjustments may be required.
impairment losses, net of accumulated depreciation.
The cost of s Assets held-for-sale significant assets includes capitalized interest incurred during the An asset is classied as held-for-sale when, amongst other things, construction period.
Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line the Company has committed to a plan of disposition, the asset is basis at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual available for immediate sale, and the plan is not expected to value of each asset over its estimated useful life as follows: change signicantly.
Assets held-for-sale are carried at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell.
Q Buildings 15 to 50 years Q Ofce furniture, ttings and equipment 3 to 10 years Assets acquired in a business combination that will be sold rather Q Warehouse, laboratory and than held and used are classied as held-for-sale at the date of manufacturing equipment 3 to 15 years acquisition when it is probable that the Company will dispose of the assets within one year.
Newly acquired assets held-for-sale are The cost of land is not depreciated.
Assets under the course of carried at their fair value less cost to sell at the acquisition date.
The construction are not depreciated until the relevant assets are Company does not record depreciation or amortization on assets available and ready for their intended use.
Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to the t Investments consolidated statements of income as incurred.
The costs of major The Company has certain investments in pharmaceutical and renewals and improvements are capitalized.
At the time property, biotechnology companies.
plant and equipment is retired or otherwise disposed of, the cost Investments are accounted for using the equity method of and accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the asset and accounting if the investment gives the Company the ability to accumulated depreciation accounts.
The profit or loss on such exercise significant inuence, but not control over, the investee.
disposition is reected in operating income.
significant inuence is generally deemed to exist if the Company v Goodwill and other intangible assets has an ownership interest in the voting stock of the investee i Goodwill between 20% and 50%, although other factors such as In business combinations completed subsequent to January 1, representation on the investees Board of Directors and the nature 2009, goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the of commercial arrangements, are considered in determining consideration given and the fair value of any noncontrolling interest whether the equity method of accounting is appropriate.
Under the in the acquiree over the fair value of the identiable assets and equity method of accounting, the Company records its investments liabilities acquired.
For business combinations completed prior to in equity method investees in the consolidated balance sheet under January 1, 2009 goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of Investments and its share of the investees earnings or losses the consideration given over the fair value of the identiable assets together with other than temporary impairments in value under and liabilities acquired.
equity in earnings of equity method investees in the consolidated statements of income.
Goodwill is not amortized, but instead is reviewed for impairment, at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
For the purpose of assessing the carrying value of goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated to the Companys three reporting units, being SP, HGT and RM.
Events or changes in circumstances which could trigger an impairment review include but are not limited to: significant underperformance of a reporting unit relative to expected historical or projected future operating results: significant changes in the manner of the Companys use of acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business: and significant negative industry trends.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements w Non-monetary transactions 2.
Summary of significant accounting The Company enters into certain non-monetary transactions that policies continued involve either the granting of a license over the Companys patents or the disposal of an asset or group of assets in exchange for a Goodwill is reviewed for impairment by comparing the carrying non-monetary asset, usually equity.
The Company accounts for value of each reporting units net assets including allocated these transactions at fair value if the Company is able to determine goodwill to the fair value of the reporting unit.
If the reporting units the fair value within reasonable limits.
To the extent the Company carrying amount is greater than its fair value, a second step is concludes that it is unable to determine the fair value of a performed whereby the portion of the reporting units fair value transaction that transaction is accounted for at the recorded relating to goodwill is compared to the carrying value of the amounts of the assets exchanged.
Management is required to reporting units goodwill.
The Company recognizes a goodwill exercise its judgment in determining whether or not the fair value of impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset received or given up can be determined.
goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value.
The Company has determined that there are no impairment losses in respect of x New accounting pronouncements goodwill for any of the reporting periods covered by these i Adopted during the period consolidated financial statements.
Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in US GAAP and International Financial ii Other intangible assets Reporting Standards IFRS Other intangible assets principally comprise intellectual property On January 1, 2012 the Company adopted new guidance issued rights for products with a dened revenue stream, acquired by the Financial Accounting Standard Board FASB on fair value product technology and IPR&D.
Intellectual property rights for measurement and disclosure.
The guidance amends the existing currently marketed products and acquired product technology are requirements and improves the comparability of fair value recorded at fair value and amortized over the estimated useful life measurement and disclosure between US GAAP and IFRS.
Some of the related product, which ranges from 1 to 20 years weighted of the amendments clarify the application of existing fair value average 15.5 years.
IPR&D acquired through a business measurement requirements and other amendments change a combination which completed subsequent to January 1, 2009 is particular principle or requirement for measuring fair value or for capitalized as an indefinite lived intangible asset until the disclosing information about fair value measurements.
The completion or abandonment of the associated R&D efforts.
IPR&D guidance has been adopted prospectively from January 1, 2012. is reviewed for impairment using a one-step approach which The adoption of the guidance did not impact the Companys compares the fair value of the IPR&D asset with its carrying consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash ows.
An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the Enhanced disclosure of fair value measurement as required by this carrying value exceeds the fair value of the IPR&D asset.
Once the guidance is included in Note 21.
R&D efforts are completed the useful life of the relevant assets will be determined, and the IPR&D asset amortized over this useful Presentation of Comprehensive Income economic life.
On January 1, 2012 the Company adopted new guidance issued by FASB on the presentation of comprehensive income, which The following factors, where applicable, are considered in revises the manner in which entities present comprehensive estimating the useful lives of Other intangible assets: income in their financial statements.
The guidance requires entities Q expected use of the asset: to report components of comprehensive income in either: i a single, continuous statement of comprehensive income: or ii two Q regulatory, legal or contractual provisions, including the separate but consecutive statements.
The guidance does not regulatory approval and review process, patent issues and change those items which must be reported in other actions by government agencies: comprehensive income, and does not change the denition of net Q the effects of obsolescence, changes in demand, competing income or the calculation of earnings per share.
products and other economic factors, including the stability of The adoption of the guidance did not impact the Companys the market, known technological advances, development of consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash ows.
competing drugs that are more effective clinically or The Company has elected to present the components of economically: comprehensive income in two separate, but consecutive Q actions of competitors, suppliers, regulatory agencies or others statements.
Enhanced disclosure of the components of that may eliminate current competitive advantages: and comprehensive income is included in Note 19.
Q historical experience of renewing or extending similar arrangements.
When a number of factors apply to an intangible asset, these factors are considered in combination when determining the appropriate useful life for the relevant asset.
86 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Amounts reclassied out of comprehensive income 2.
Summary of significant accounting In February 2013 the FASB issued guidance on reporting amounts policies continued reclassied out of accumulated other comprehensive income.
The guidance requires entities to provide information about the amount Goodwill Impairment Testing reclassied out of comprehensive income by component and On January 1, 2012 the Company adopted new guidance issued presents either on the face of the financial statements or in the by FASB on the testing of goodwill for impairment.
The guidance notes, significant amounts reclassied out of other comprehensive permits an entity to first assess the qualitative factors to determine income by the respective line items of net income, but only if the whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a amount reclassied is required under US GAAP to be reclassied determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a to net income in its entirety in the same reporting period.
For other reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.
If, after assessing the amounts that are not required under US GAAP to be reclassied in totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not their entirety to net income, an entity is required to cross-reference more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than to other disclosures required under US GAAP that provide its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test additional detail about those amounts.
The new guidance is is unnecessary.
The more-likely-than-not threshold is dened as effective for interim and annual scal years beginning on or after having a likelihood of more than 50 percent.
An entity also has the January 1, 2013.
The Company does option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material effect in any period and proceed directly to performing the first step of the on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash two-step goodwill impairment test and may resume performing the ows.
qualitative assessment in any subsequent period.
The guidance has been adopted prospectively from January 1, 2012.
The y Statutory accounts adoption of the guidance did not impact the Companys The consolidated financial statements as at December 31, 2012 consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash ows.
and 2011, and for each of the three years in the period to December 31, 2012 do not comprise statutory accounts within the ii To be adopted in future periods meaning of Section 434 of the UK Companies Act 2006 or Article indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Other than Goodwill 104 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Impairment Testing In July 2012 the FASB issued guidance on the testing of indefiniteStatutory accounts of Shire, consisting of the solus accounts of lived intangible assets for impairment.
The guidance permits an Shire plc for the year to December 31, 2011 prepared under UK entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the GAAP and in compliance with Jersey law have been delivered to existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that the Registrar of Companies for Jersey.
The consolidated accounts it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011 prepared in intangible asset is less than its carrying amount.
If, after assessing accordance with US GAAP, in fulllment of the Companys United the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA annual reporting requirements more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived were led with the UKLA.
The auditors reports on these accounts intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, performing the were unqualied.
The more-likely-than-not threshold Statutory accounts of Shire, consisting of the solus accounts of is dened as a likelihood of more than 50 percent.
An entity also Shire plc for the year to December 31, 2012 prepared under UK has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any GAAP and in compliance with Jersey law will be delivered to the indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and proceed directly Registrar of Companies in Jersey in 2013.
The Company further to performing the impairment test and may resume performing the expects to le the consolidated accounts of the Company for the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period.
The guidance will year to December 31, 2012, prepared in accordance with US be effective for interim and annual impairment tests performed for GAAP, in fulllment of the Companys UKLA annual reporting scal years beginning after September 15, 2012.
Early adoption is requirements with the UKLA in 2013. permitted.
The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash ows.
Critical accounting estimates Disclosure about offsetting assets and liabilities In December 2011 the FASB issued guidance on disclosures about The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in conformity offsetting assets and liabilities.
In January 2013 FASB amended the with US GAAP and SEC regulations, requires management to previous guidance to clarify the scope of guidance issued in make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts December 2011.
The amended guidance requires entities to of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and disclose both gross and net information about derivatives including liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and bifurcated embedded derivatives, repurchase agreements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting reverse repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and period.
Estimates and assumptions are primarily made in relation to securities lending transactions that are either offset in accordance the valuation of intangible assets, sales deductions, income taxes with FASB guidance on topics Balance Sheet and Derivatives including provisions for uncertain tax positions and the realization and Hedging or subject to an enforceable master netting of deferred tax assets, provisions for litigation and legal arrangement or similar agreement: to enable users of financial proceedings, contingent consideration receivable from product statements to understand the effects or potential effects of those divestments and contingent consideration payable in respect of arrangements on its financial position.
The guidance is required to business combinations and asset purchases.
If actual results differ be applied retrospectively and will be effective for interim and from the Companys estimates, or to the extent these estimates are annual scal years beginning on or after January 1, 2013.
The adjusted in future periods, the Companys results of operations Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a could either benefit from, or be adversely affected by, any such material effect on its consolidated financial position, results of change in estimate.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For these reasons, among others, the actual cash ows may vary 3.
Critical accounting estimates from forecasts of future cash ows, and dependent on the continued outcome of future events or circumstances impairment losses as outlined below may result.
The use of different estimates and i Valuation of intangible assets assumptions to those used by the Company could result in a In accordance with US GAAP the Company classies intangible materially different valuation of nite lived intangible assets.
assets into three categories: 1 nite lived intangible assets, which However, as the valuation process for intangible assets involves a are amortized over their estimated useful lives: 2 intangible assets number of inter-relating assumptions, the Company does not with indefinite lives, which are not subject to amortization: and 3 consider it meaningful to quantify the sensitivity of the valuation of goodwill.
intangible assets to changes in any individual assumption.
At December 31, 2012 the carrying value of the Companys nite Initial valuation of indefinite lived intangible assets IPR&D lived intangible assets was $2,157.1 million 2011: $2,373.2 million: IPR&D represents the fair value assigned to incomplete 2010: $1,839.2 million, the carrying value of the Companys technologies and development projects that the Company has indefinite-lived intangible assets was $231.0 million 2011: $119.8 acquired through business combinations or asset acquisitions, million: 2010: $139.7 million, and the carrying value of the which at the date of the relevant acquisition have not reached Companys goodwill was $644.5 million 2011: $592.6 million: 2010: technological feasibility or which have no alternative future use.
The Companys indefinite-lived intangible assets relate solely to IPR&D assets acquired through business Prior to January 1, 2009 the fair value ascribed to such combinations.
technologies or development projects was immediately expensed to the consolidated statements of income in the year of acquisition.
a Initial valuation of intangible assets acquired through business Additionally, non-refundable fees paid on the in-licensing of combinations products that have not yet received regulatory approval and have The Company accounts for business combinations using the no alternative future use have been expensed and presented within acquisition method of accounting, which requires that the assets R&D in the consolidated statements of income.
acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values.
Any excess of the fair For those business combinations which closed subsequent to value of consideration given and the fair value of any noncontrolling January 1, 2009 IPR&D has been recorded as indefinite-lived interest over the fair values of the identiable assets and liabilities intangible assets.
At the time of each initial acquisition, the acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The determination of estimated Company recorded indefinite-lived IPR&D assets of $166 million fair values of acquired intangible assets, as well as the useful and $25 million on the acquisition of FerroKin and the acquisition of economic life ascribed to nite lived intangible assets, requires the certain assets and liabilities from Pervasis, respectively in 2012, and use of significant judgment.
The use of different estimates and recorded IPR&D assets of $139 million on the acquisition of Movetis assumptions to those used by the Company could result in a in 2010. materially different valuation of acquired intangible assets, which The fair value of IPR&D assets is determined using the income could have a material effect on the Companys results of approach on a project-by-project basis using the multi-period operations.
The fair value of the acquired IPR&D Initial valuation of nite lived intangible assets assets has been based on the present value of probability adjusted At December 31, 2012 the carrying value of the Companys nite incremental cash ows which a market participant would expect to lived intangible assets was $2,157.1 million 2011: $2,373.2 million: be generated by the IPR&D projects after the deduction of 2010: $1,839.2 million, primarily representing the following contributory asset charges for other assets employed in these products: VYVANSE $770.2 million, DERMAGRAFT product projects.
This method incorporates an evaluation of the probability technology $650.9 million, REPLAGAL $263.5 million, FIRAZYR of success of each development project, and applying an $209.1 million and RESOLOR $126.8 million.
appropriate market participant discount rate commensurate with the projects stage of completion, the nature of the product, the The fair values of all nite lived identiable intangible assets, for scientific data associated with the technology, the current patent commercialized products and developed product technologies, situation and market competition.
acquired through business combinations have been determined using an income approach on a project-by-project basis using the The major risks and uncertainties associated with the timely multi-period excess earnings method.
The multi-period excess completion of the acquired IPR&D projects consist of the ability to earnings method starts with a forecast of all expected future net confirm the safety and efcacy of the technology based on the data cash ows which a market participant could have either generated from ongoing clinical trials, and obtaining the necessary regulatory or saved as a result of ownership of the intellectual property, approvals.
The use of different estimates and assumptions to those customer relationships, product technologies and other intangible used by the Company could result in a materially different valuation assets.
These cash ows are then adjusted to present value by of IPR&D.
However, as the valuation process for IPR&D involves a applying a market participant discount rate that reects the risk number of inter-relating assumptions, the Company does not factors that a market participant would associate with the cash consider it meaningful to quantify the sensitivity of the valuation of ows to the extent the underlying cash ows have not similarly IPR&D to changes in any individual assumption.
The forecast of future cash ows requires various assumptions to be made.
These valuations are based on information at the time of the acquisition of the identiable intangible assets, and the expectations and assumptions that i have been deemed reasonable by the Companys management and ii are based on information, expectations and assumptions that would be available to and made by a market participant.
No assurance can be given, however, that the underlying assumptions or events associated with such valuations will occur as projected.
88 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Events or circumstances that could suggest that the Companys 3.
Critical accounting estimates nite lived intangible assets may not be recoverable, and which continued would lead to an evaluation of the recoverability of the relevant asset, include but are not limited to, the following: The valuation of IPR&D has been based on information that existed at the time of the acquisition of the relevant development project, i changes to a products commercialization strategy: and utilized expectations and assumptions that i have been ii the loss of patent protection, regulatory exclusivity or challenge deemed reasonable by the Companys management, and ii are or circumvention by competitors of the Companys regulatory based on information, expectations and assumptions that would exclusivity patents: be available to and made by a market participant.
However, no assurance can be given that the underlying assumptions or iii the development and marketing of competitive products, estimates associated with the valuation of IPR&D will occur as including generic entrants into the marketplace: projected.
If certain of the IPR&D projects fail during development, are abandoned, or do not receive the relevant regulatory approvals, iv changes to the product labels, or other regulatory intervention: the Company may not realize the future cash ows that it has v sustained government pressure on prices and, specically, estimated nor recover the value of the R&D investment made competitive pricing: subsequent to acquisition of the relevant project.
If such circumstances occur, the Companys future operating results could vi the occurrence of significant adverse events in respect to the be materially adversely impacted.
Companys products: b Subsequent measurement of intangible assets vii a significant deterioration in a products operating performance Finite lived intangible assets estimation of amortization charges compared to expectations: and and impairment losses viii an expectation that the intangible asset will be divested before Managements estimate of the useful life of its nite lived intangible the end of its previously estimated useful life.
assets considers, amongst other things, the following factors: The occurrence of any such events or circumstances could i the expected use of the nite lived intangible asset by the adversely affect the Companys estimates of the future net cash Company: ows generated by its nite lived intangible assets.
The Company ii any legal, regulatory, or contractual provisions that may limit or has recognized impairment losses of $126.7 million, to write down extend the useful life: its RESOLOR nite lived intangible assets to their fair value in the year to December 31, 2012 2011: $nil: 2010: $42.7 million, which iii the effects of demand and competition, including the launch of related to the DAYTRANA intangible asset as a result of divestment generic products: and to Noven.
See Note 13, Other intangible assets, net for further iv other general economic and or industry specic factors such details.
Dependent on future events or circumstances, the as the stability of the industry, known technological advances, Companys operating results could be materially and adversely legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing affected by future impairment losses relating to its nite lived regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution intangible assets.
indefinite-lived intangible assets IPR&D estimation of The Company reviews the useful life of its intangible assets subject impairment losses to amortization at each reporting period, and revises its estimate of The Company reviews its indefinite-lived intangible assets which the useful life if warranted by events or circumstances.
Any future currently only relate to IPR&D assets for impairment annually or changes to the useful life of the Companys nite lived intangible more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that assets could result in higher or lower amortization charges in future the asset might be impaired.
indefinite-lived assets are reviewed for periods, which could materially affect the Companys results from impairment using a one-step approach, which compares the fair operations.
value of the indefinite-lived asset based on market participant assumptions with its carrying amount.
An impairment loss is The Company reviews its nite lived intangible assets for recognized to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the impairment using a two-step approach, whenever events or estimated fair value of the relevant indefinite-lived intangible asset.
circumstances suggest that the carrying value of its nite lived intangible assets may not be recoverable.
Under step one, if the Events or circumstances that could suggest that the Companys undiscounted cash ows resulting from the use and ultimate IPR&D assets may not be recoverable, and which would lead to an disposition of the nite lived intangible asset based on entity evaluation of the relevant asset for impairment, include those specic assumptions are less than its carrying value, the intangible factors considered for nite lived intangible assets outlined above asset is considered not to be recoverable.
The impairment loss is as well as any adverse changes to the technological or commercial determined under step two as the amount by which the carrying viability of the IPR&D projects, which could include abandonment value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value based on market or declines in the estimated commercial potential of the relevant participant assumptions.
The occurrence of any such events or circumstances could adversely affect the Companys estimates of the future net cash ows generated by, and the fair value of, its indefinite-lived intangible assets.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements The Company has the following significant categories of sales 3.
Critical accounting estimates deductions, all of which involve estimates and judgments which the continued Company considers to be critical accounting estimates, and require the Company to use information from external sources: After the identication of any such events or circumstances, and the resultant impairment reviews, the Company recognized i Medicaid and Managed Care rebates impairment losses of $71.2 million in the year to December 31, Statutory rebates to State Medicaid agencies and contractual 2012 2011: $16.0 million: 2010: $nil to write down its RESOLOR rebates to MCOs under Managed Care programs are based on IPR&D assets to their fair value.
See Note 13, Other intangible statutory or negotiated discounts to the selling price.
Medicaid assets, net for details.
Dependent on future events or rebates generally increase as a percentage of the selling price over circumstances, the Companys operating results could be the life of the product if prices increase faster than ination.
materially and adversely affected by future impairment losses As it can take up to six months for information to reach the relating to its indefinite-lived intangible assets.
Company on actual usage of the Companys products in Managed Goodwill estimation of impairment losses Care and Medicaid programs and on the total rebates to be The Company reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually, or reimbursed, the Company maintains reserves for amounts payable more frequently if events or circumstances indicate the carrying under these programs relating to sold products.
amount of goodwill may not be recoverable.
Goodwill is reviewed The amount of these reserves is based on historical experience of for impairment at the reporting unit level, which for the Company is rebates, the timing of payments, the level of reimbursement claims, at the same level as its operating segments of SP, HGT and RM.
changes in prices both normal selling prices and statutory or At December 31, 2012 goodwill of $291.1 million December 31, negotiated prices, changes in prescription demand patterns, 2011: $243.5 million is held in the SP segment, $154.5 million projected product returns and the levels of inventory in the December 31, 2011: $152.1 million in the HGT segment and distribution channel.
Adjustments are made for known changes in $198.9 million December 31, 2011: $197.0 million is held in the RM these factors.
Shires estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution channel The Company reviews goodwill for impairment using a two step are derived from product-by-product inventory data provided by approach.
Step one requires a comparison of the fair value of each wholesalers and results of independently commissioned retail of the Companys reporting units with its carrying value, including inventory surveys.
If the carrying value of each individual reporting unit Revisions or clarification of guidelines from the CMS related to exceeds its estimated fair value, goodwill included within that State Medicaid and other government program reimbursement reporting unit is considered impaired, in which case Step two is practices with retroactive application can result in changes to performed.
Under Step two, if the carrying amount of a reporting managements estimates of the rebates reported in prior periods.
units goodwill exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
The accrual estimation process for Medicaid and Managed Care rebates involves in each case a number of interrelating The Company determines the fair value of its reporting units and if assumptions, which vary for each combination of product and required in any Step two evaluation, the fair value of its goodwill Medicaid agency or MCO.
Accordingly, it would not be meaningful through a present value technique, principally using the income to quantify the sensitivity to change for any individual assumption approach.
The determination of fair value of the Companys or uncertainty.
However, Shire does not believe that the effect of reporting units requires the use of significant judgment and these uncertainties, taken as a whole, signicantly impacts the assumptions, which include, amongst other things, the estimation Companys financial condition or results of operations.
of future forecast cash ows and an appropriate discount rate used to determine the fair value of each of the Companys reporting Aggregate accruals for Medicaid and MCO rebates at December units.
31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were $640.5 million, $612.6 million and $549.9 million, or 15%, 16% and 18%, respectively of net product The Companys annual goodwill impairment review performed as sales.
Historically, actual rebates have not varied signicantly from at October 1, 2012, 2011 and 2010 indicated that the estimated fair the reserves provided.
value of each of the Companys reporting units exceeded their carrying values.
Goodwill was, therefore, not considered impaired.
ii Product returns However, dependent on future events or circumstances, the The Company typically accepts customer product returns in the Companys operating results could be materially and adversely following circumstances: a expiration of shelf life: b product affected by any future impairment losses relating to its goodwill.
damaged while in the possession of Shire: c under sales terms that allow for unconditional return guaranteed sales : or d ii Sales deductions following product recalls or product withdrawals.
Returns are Sales deductions consist of statutory rebates to State Medicaid generally accepted up to one year after expiration date of the and other government agencies, contractual rebates with Managed relevant product.
The Company typically refunds the sales price Care Organizations MCOs, product returns, sales discounts paid by the customer by issuance of a credit, rather than cash including trade discounts, wholesaler chargebacks, and refund or exchanges from inventory, and the returned product is allowances for coupon and patient assistance programs.
deductions are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales.
Estimates of future obligations are derived from historical experience adjusted to reect known changes in the factors that impact such reserves.
On the balance sheet the Company records wholesaler chargebacks and trade discounts as a reserve against accounts receivable, whereas all other sales deductions are recorded within current liabilities.
90 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements iii Income taxes 3.
Critical accounting estimates In accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, management is continued required to develop estimates as to whether a tax benefit should be recognized in the consolidated financial statements, based on Shire estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that will result whether it is more likely than not that the technical merits of the in a return by considering relevant factors, including: position will be sustained based on audit by the tax authorities.
i past product returns activity: The measurement of the tax benefit recognized in the consolidated financial statements is based upon the largest amount of tax ii the duration of time taken for products to be returned: benefit that, in managements judgment, is greater than 50% likely iii the estimated level of inventory in the distribution channel: to be realized based on a cumulative probability assessment of the possible outcomes.
In accounting for income tax uncertainties, iv product recalls and discontinuances: management is required to make judgments in the determination of v the shelf life of products: the unit of account, the evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information in respect of the tax position taken, together with the vi the launch of new drugs or new formulations: and estimates of amounts that the Company may be required to pay in ultimate settlement with the tax authority.
vii the loss of patent protection or new competition.
Shire operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns Shires estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution channel are subject to audit and adjustment by local tax authorities.
As are based on product-by-product inventory data provided by Shire operates globally, the nature of the uncertain tax positions is wholesalers and results of independently commissioned third party often very complex and subject to change and the amounts at retail inventory surveys.
Shire develops its cumulative probability Returns reserves for new products and for those products with assessment to measure uncertain tax positions using internal generic competition generally require a higher level of estimation expertise, experience and judgment, together with assistance from than those for established products without generic competition.
Original estimates are rened as additional information becomes known.
For example, in the year to December For shipments made to support the commercial launch of a new 31, 2012 the Company released certain provisions for uncertain tax product which can include guaranteed sales, the Companys positions totaling $14.2 million, primarily following the conclusion of policy is to defer recognition of the sales revenue until there is prior year audits: these releases were partially offset by the evidence of end-patient acceptance of the new product primarily recognition of additional provisions for uncertain tax positions of through third party prescription data.
For shipments after launch $20.9 million in relation to ongoing compliance management for under standard terms i. e. not guaranteed sales, the Companys current and prior years.
initial estimates of sales return accruals are primarily based on the historical sales returns experience of similar products shortly after Any outcome upon settlement that differs from the recorded launch.
Once sufficient historical data on actual returns of the provision for uncertain tax positions may result in a materially higher product are available, the returns provision is based on this data or lower tax expense in future periods, which could signicantly and any other relevant factors as noted above.
impact the Companys results of operations or financial condition.
However, the Company does not believe it is possible to The Company estimates returns reserves for products with generic reasonably estimate the potential impact of any such change in competition based on historical sales, product utilization and rebate assumptions, estimates or judgments and the resultant change, if data, which are modied through the use of management any, in the Companys provision for uncertain tax positions, as any judgment to take into account many factors, including, but not such change is dependent on factors such as future changes in limited to, current market dynamics, changes in contract terms, tax law or administrative practice, the amount and nature of changes in sales trends and product pricing.
additional taxes which may be asserted by the taxation authorities, The accrual estimation process for product returns involves, in and the willingness of the relevant tax authorities to negotiate a each case, a number of inter-relating assumptions, which vary for settlement for any such position.
each combination of product and customer.
Accordingly, it would At December 31, 2012 the Company recognized a liability of $278.8 not be meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for any million for total unrecognized tax benets 2011: $265.5 million and individual assumption or uncertainty.
However, Shire does not had accrued $119.6 million 2011: $114.5 million for the payment of believe that the effect of uncertainties, as a whole, signicantly interest and penalties.
The Company is required in certain tax impacts the Companys financial condition or results of operations.
jurisdictions to make advance deposits to tax authorities on receipt At December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, provisions for product of a tax assessment.
These payments are either offset against the returns were $90.5 million, $88.8 million, and $69.8 million or 2%, income tax liability or establish an income tax receivable but do not 2% and 2% respectively, of net product sales.
Historically, actual reduce the provision for unrecognized tax benets.
returns have not varied signicantly from the reserves provided.
The Company has significant deferred tax assets due to various tax attributes, including net operating losses NOLs, tax credits from Research and Development and Investment Tax Credits principally in the Republic of Ireland, the US, Belgium, Germany and the UK.
At December 31, 2012 the Company had deferred tax liabilities of $740 million 2011: $714 million: 2010: $433 million and gross deferred tax assets of $764 million 2011: $667 million: 2010: $569 million, against which the Company had recorded valuation allowances of $269 million 2011: $212 million: 2010: $200 million.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements At December 31, 2012 the Company has contingent consideration 3.
Critical accounting estimates assets of $38.3 million 2011: $37.8 million: 2010: $61.0 million, continued related to the divestment of DAYTRANA to Noven in October 2010.
The fair value of this contingent consideration receivable has been The realization of these assets is not assured and is dependent on estimated using the income approach using a discounted cash the generation of sufficient taxable income in future periods.
This discounted cash ow approach uses significant Management is required to exercise judgment in determining unobservable Level 3 inputs as dened in US GAAP including: whether it is more likely than not that it would realize these deferred forecast future relevant sales of the divested product: the number tax assets.
Where there is an expectation that on the balance of of years over which such sales will be generated: the relevant probabilities there will not be sufficient taxable profits to utilize these contractual royalty rates associated with such sales: an appropriate tax attributes a valuation allowance is held against these deferred discount rate to be applied in calculating the present value of tax assets.
If actual events differ from managements estimates, or forecast future cash inows: and assumed weightings applied to to the extent that these estimates are adjusted in the future, any differing revenue scenarios used to derive a probability weighted changes to the valuation allowance could signicantly impact the fair value.
significant judgment has been employed by the Companys financial condition and results of operations.
Company in developing these estimates and assumptions, both at iv Litigation and legal proceedings the date of divestment and in developing assumptions in The Company has a number of lawsuits pending.
If actual events differ from managements principal pending legal and other proceedings are disclosed in estimates, or to the extent that these estimates are adjusted in the Note 18 Commitments and contingencies.
The Company future, the Companys financial condition and results of operations recognizes loss contingency provisions for probable losses when could be affected in the period of any such change of estimate.
management is able to reasonably estimate the loss.
When the vi Contingent consideration payable estimated loss lies within a range, the Company records a loss Contingent consideration payable represents the fair value of future contingency provision based on its best estimate of the probable amounts the Company may be required to pay in conjunction with loss.
If no particular amount within that range is a better estimate the FerroKin and Pervasis business combinations and the license than any other amount, the minimum amount is recorded.
The amount of consideration ultimately Estimates of losses are often developed substantially before the payable under these arrangements is dependent on the ultimate loss is known, and are therefore rened during each achievement of certain future development, regulatory and sales accounting period as additional information becomes known.
In milestones and or the level of future royalties payable for the instances where the Company is unable to develop a reasonable relevant licensed product.
The fair value of the Companys estimate of loss, no loss contingency provision is recorded at that contingent consideration payable at December 31, 2012 was time.
As information becomes known a loss contingency provision $136.4 million December 31, 2011: $nil.
is recorded when a reasonable estimate can be made.
The estimates are reviewed quarterly and the estimates are changed The Company re-measures its contingent consideration payable to when expectations are revised.
An outcome that deviates from the fair value each accounting period.
Any changes to the fair value of Companys estimate may result in an additional expense or release contingent consideration payables in respect of the FerroKin and in a future accounting period.
At December 31, 2012 provisions for Pervasis business combinations is recorded to integration and litigation losses, insurance claims and other disputes totaled $130.5 acquisition costs in the Companys consolidated income million December 31, 2011: $36.9 million: 2010: $33.8 million.
Any changes to the fair value of contingent consideration payable in respect of the license acquired from The outcomes of these proceedings are not always predictable Mt.
Sinai is recorded as an increase decrease to the associated and can be affected by various factors.
For those legal and other intangible asset, with a prospective adjustment to intangible asset proceedings for which it is considered at least reasonably possible amortization in periods subsequent to any such change.
that a loss has been incurred, the Company discloses the possible loss or range of possible loss in excess of the recorded loss The Company estimates the fair value of contingent consideration contingency provision, if any, where such excess is both material payable using the income approach, based on a discounted cash and estimable.
The estimation of the likelihood, amount and range ow method.
The discounted cash ow method uses significant of any loss arising from these proceedings requires significant unobservable Level 3 inputs as dened under US GAAP, judgment.
Any revisions in the Companys estimates, or outcomes including: the probability of, and period in which, the relevant upon settlement that deviate from the Companys best estimate milestone event is expected to be achieved: the discount rate to be may result in an additional or lesser expense in a future accounting applied in calculating the present value of the relevant milestone or period, which could materially impact the Companys financial royalty: and the amount of royalties payable based on forecast net condition or results of operations.
sales of the relevant product.
significant judgment is employed by the Company in developing these fair values estimates.
If actual v Contingent consideration receivable from events differ from managements estimates or to the extent that product divestments these estimates are adjusted in the future, the Companys financial Consideration receivable by the Company on the divestment of condition and results of operations could be materially affected in product rights typically includes up-front receipts and or milestones the period of any such change of estimate.
and royalties which are contingent on the outcome of future events with such milestones and royalties being, for example, based upon the future sales performance of the divested product.
Contingent consideration occasionally represents a significant proportion of the economic value receivable by the Company for a divested product.
In these situations the Company initially recognizes this contingent consideration as an asset at its divestment date fair value, with re-measurement of this asset to its then current fair value at subsequent balance sheet dates.
92 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements The purchase price has been allocated to acquired IPR&D in 4. Business combinations respect of SPD602 $166.0 million, net current liabilities assumed Acquisition of Lotus Tissue Repair, Inc Lotus $6.6 million, net non-current liabilities assumed including deferred On February 12, 2013 Shire completed the acquisition of 100% tax liabilities $46.2 million and goodwill $46.1 million.
Goodwill of the outstanding share capital of Lotus, a privately held arising of $46.1 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, biotechnology company based in Cambridge, MA.
Cash has been assigned to the SP operating segment.
consideration paid on closing by the Company was $49.3 million.
In the year to December 31, 2012 the Company expensed costs of Further contingent cash consideration of up to $275.0 million may $12.1 million 2011: $nil relating to the FerroKin acquisition, which be payable by the Company in future periods, dependent upon the have been recorded within Integration and acquisition costs in the achievement of certain safety and development milestones.
Companys consolidated statement of income.
Lotus is developing a proprietary recombinant form of human Acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of Pervasis collagen Type VII as the first and only intravenous protein Therapeutics, Inc. Pervasis replacement therapy currently being investigated for the treatment On April 19, 2012 Shire acquired substantially all the assets and of Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa DEB.
DEB is a devastating certain liabilities of Pervasis.
The acquisition date fair value of the orphan disease for which there is no currently approved treatment consideration totaled $26.1 million, comprising cash consideration option other than palliative care.
The acquisition adds a late stage paid on closing of $2.5 million and the fair value of contingent preclinical product for the treatment of DEB with global rights to consideration payable of $23.6 million.
The maximum amount of Shires HGT pipeline.
This acquisition is complementary to Shires contingent cash consideration which may be payable by Shire in existing investment in developing ABH001, which is currently being future periods is up to $169.5 million.
The amount of contingent investigated as a dermal substitute therapy for the treatment of cash consideration ultimately payable by Shire is dependent upon non-healing wounds in patients with EB.
achievement of certain clinical development, regulatory and net The acquisition of Lotus will be accounted for as a purchase sales milestones.
The acquisition adds SRM003 formerly business combination.
The assets acquired and the liabilities VASCUGEL to Shires Regenerative Medicine business.
SRM003 assumed from Lotus will be recorded at the date of acquisition, at is currently in Phase 2 development for acute vascular repair, their fair value.
Shires consolidated financial statements will reect focused on improving hemodialysis access for patients with these fair values at, and the results of Lotus will be included in end-stage renal disease.
Shires consolidated statement of income from, February 12, 2013.
The acquisition has been accounted for as a purchase business As the initial accounting for the business combination has not yet combination.
The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from been completed, further disclosure relating to this acquisition will Pervasis have been recorded at their fair values at the date of be included in the Companys Form 10-Q for the three months acquisition, being April 19, 2012.
The Companys consolidated ended March 31, 2013. financial statements and results of operations include the results of In the year to December 31, 2012 the Company expensed costs of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from Pervasis from $0.5 million relating to the Lotus acquisition, which have been April 19, 2012.
The purchase price has been allocated to acquired recorded within Integration and acquisition costs in the Companys IPR&D principally for VASCUGEL $24.3 million, current liabilities consolidated statement of income.
assumed $0.2 million and goodwill $2.0 million.
Goodwill, which is not deductible for tax purposes, has been assigned to the RM Acquisition of FerroKin BioSciences, Inc. FerroKin operating segment.
On April 2, 2012 Shire completed the acquisition of 100% of the outstanding share capital of FerroKin.
The acquisition-date fair Acquisition of Advanced BioHealing, Inc. ABH value of consideration totaled $159.3 million, comprising cash On June 28, 2011 Shire completed its acquisition of 100% of the consideration paid on closing of $94.5 million and the fair value of outstanding shares and other equity instruments of ABH.
The fair contingent consideration payable of $64.8 million.
The maximum value of cash consideration paid by the Company during 2011 was amount of contingent cash consideration which may be payable by $739.6 million.
Shire in future periods is $225.0 million.
The amount of contingent The acquisition of ABH adds the DERMAGRAFT product, a cash consideration ultimately payable by Shire is dependent upon bio-engineered skin substitute, to Shires portfolio.
the achievement of certain clinical development, regulatory and net sales milestones.
The acquisition of ABH was accounted for as a purchase business combination.
The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from The acquisition of FerroKin adds global rights to a Phase 2 product, ABH have been recorded at their fair values at the date of SPD 602 formerly referred to as FBS0701, to Shires SP pipeline.
The determination of final fair SPD 602 is intended to serve a chronic patient need for treatment values was completed on June 28, 2012.
The Companys of iron overload following numerous blood transfusions.
Together consolidated financial statements and results of operations include with our collaboration with Sangamo Biosciences Inc. Sangamo, the results of ABH from June 28, 2011.
The amount of ABHs this acquisition is a strategic step in building Shires hematology revenues and pre tax losses included in the Companys business, which already includes XAGRID and a growing consolidated statement of income for the year ended December development pipeline.
31, 2011 were $105.3 million and $15.3 million after intangible The acquisition of FerroKin has been accounted for as a purchase asset amortization of $20.0 million respectively.
The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from FerroKin have been recorded at their fair values at the date of acquisition, being April 2, 2012.
The Companys consolidated financial statements and results of operations include the results of FerroKin from April 2, 2012.
In the year to December 31, 2012 the Company included pre tax losses of $19.1 million, for FerroKin within its consolidated statement of income.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In In millions millions of of US US dolla dollar rs s, e ex xc ce ep pt t w wh he er re e indic indica at te ed d 4. Business combinations continued The Companys allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is outlined below: Fair value $M Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 14.6 Accounts receivable 30.1 Inventories 30.7 Deferred tax assets 51.1 Other current assets 7.9 Total current assets 134.4 Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 16.6 Goodwill 197.0 Other intangible assets DERMAGRAFT product technology 710.0 other intangible assets 1.5 Other non-current assets 0.2 Total assets 1,059.7 Liabilities Current liabilities: Accounts payable and other current liabilities 52.4 Non-current liabilities: Long term debt, less current portion 9.1 Deferred tax liabilities 258.5 Other non-current liabilities 0.1 Total liabilities 320.1 Fair value of identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 739.6 Consideration Cash consideration paid 739.6 Other intangible assets principally comprise $710.0 million relating to DERMAGRAFT product technology, the product brand name and related relationships.
The fair value of this asset has been estimated using an income approach, using the excess earnings method.
The estimated useful life of the technology is 18 years, and amortization expense will be recorded on a straight-line basis.
Goodwill arising of $197.0 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, has been assigned to the RM operating segment.
Goodwill includes the values of tax synergies, assembled workforce and future potential indications for DERMAGRAFT which at the time of acquisition did not meet the criteria for recognition as separate intangible assets.
In the year to December 31, 2012 the Company incurred costs of $12.6 million 2011: $13.6 million in respect of the acquisition and post-acquisition integration of ABH, which have been charged to Integration and acquisition costs in the Companys consolidated statement of income.
94 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 4. Business combinations continued Acquisition of Movetis On September 6, 2010 the Company launched a voluntary public takeover offer for all the shares and warrants in Movetis, a Belgium based specialty GI company, at a price of 19 per share in cash.
On October 12, 2010 the Company acquired 99.21% of the shares of Movetis as a result of the successful tender offer.
By November 8, 2010, following a statutory squeeze-out of the remaining shares and warrants not tendered in the offer, the Company had acquired 100% of the shares and warrants in Movetis for a total cash consideration of $592.0 million.
The acquisition added RESOLOR to Shires global GI portfolio.
On January 10, 2012 Shire also acquired the rights to RESOLOR in the US from J&J.
The acquisition of Movetis has been accounted for as a purchase business combination.
The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from Movetis have been recorded at their fair value at October 12, 2010, being the date of acquisition.
The Companys consolidated financial statements and results of operations include the results of Movetis from October 12, 2010.
The Companys allocation of the purchase price to the Movetis assets acquired and liabilities assumed is outlined below: $M Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 109.0 Short term investments 7.0 Other current assets 8.6 Total current assets 124.6 Property, plant and equipment, net 1.1 Goodwill 27.9 Other intangible assets, net currently marketed product 317.0 IPR&D 139.0 other intangible assets 14.0 Other non-current assets 0.8 Deferred tax asset 40.4 Total assets 664.8 Liabilities Current liabilities: Accounts payable and other current liabilities 19.0 Non-current liabilities: Deferred tax liability 53.8 Total liabilities 72.8 Fair value of identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 592.0 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In In millions millions of of US US dolla dollar rs s, e ex xc ce ep pt t w wh he er re e indic indica at te ed d 4. Business combinations continued Other intangible assets include $317.0 million relating to intellectual property rights for Movetis currently marketed product, RESOLOR, for the treatment of chronic constipation in women in whom laxatives fail to provide adequate relief.
The fair value of RESOLOR has been estimated using an income approach, based on the present value of incremental after tax cash ows attributable to the asset after deduction of contributory asset charges.
The estimated useful life of the RESOLOR currently marketed product intangible asset is 14 years, with amortization being recorded on a straight-line basis.
IPR&D principally relates to Movetis RESOLOR product for the treatment of chronic constipation in men $93 million and children $42 million.
The fair value of these IPR&D assets have been estimated based on an income approach, using the present value of incremental after tax cash ows expected to be generated by these development projects after the deduction of contributory asset charges for other assets employed in these projects.
The estimated cash ows have been probability adjusted to take into account their stage of completion and the remaining risks and uncertainties surrounding their future development and commercialization.
The estimated, probability adjusted after tax cash ows have been discounted at rates between 12-14% to determine a present, or fair, value.
In the year to December 31, 2012 the Company recorded impairment charges totaling $197.9 million in respect of these intangible assets.
See Note 13 for further details.
Goodwill arising of $27.9 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, has been assigned to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals operating segment.
In the year to December 31, 2010 the Company expensed transaction costs of $6.9 million relating to the Movetis acquisition, which have been recorded within Integration and acquisition costs in the Companys consolidated statements of income.
The amount of Movetis revenues and pre tax losses included in the Companys consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $0.3 million and $17.5 million respectively.
Supplemental disclosure of pro-forma information The unaudited pro-forma financial information to present the combined results of the operations of Shire, FerroKin and Pervasis are not provided as the impacts of these acquisitions were not material to the Companys results of operations for any period presented.
Divestment of product rights On October 1, 2010 the Company completed the divestment of DAYTRANA to Noven Noven developed and manufactures DAYTRANA, and Shire licensed DAYTRANA from Noven in 2003.
No consideration was received at the time of divestment, however consideration is receivable from Noven dependent on DAYTRANAs performance in the period subsequent to divestment.
On divestment Shire recorded the fair value of contingent consideration receivable from Noven within current and non-current assets.
During the year to December 31, 2012 the Company recognized a gain of $18.1 million 2011: loss of $6.0 million, 2010: gain of $10.4 million due to changes in the fair value of this contingent consideration.
At December 31, 2012 the Company has recorded a receivable based on the fair value of future contingent consideration totaling $39.2 million 2011: $42.6 million, split between current assets $11.6 million 2011: $13.7 million and non-current assets $27.6 million 2011: $28.9 million.
In the year to December 31, 2012 the Company recognized a gain of $18.1 million 2011: loss of $6.0 million, 2010: gain of $16.5 million in respect of DAYTRANA and other disposed product rights.
All assets disposed of during 2012, 2011 and 2010 formed part of the SP operating segment.
Reorganization costs Establishment of an International Commercial Hub in Switzerland In March 2010 the Company initiated operations in Switzerland to support its HGT and SP businesses outside the US.
The transition to the international commercial hub in Switzerland was completed in 2011, and resulted in total reorganization costs of $33.8 million incurred since March 2010.
In the year to December 31, 2011 the Company incurred reorganization costs totaling $12.5 million 2010: $21.3 million relating to employee involuntary termination benets and other reorganization costs.
Owings Mills In March 2009 the Company initiated plans to phase out operations and close its SP manufacturing facility at Owings Mills, Maryland.
In 2011 the Company sold its Owings Mills facility and completed the transition of all products manufactured at this site to DSM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. resulting in total reorganization costs of $37.5 million incurred since March 2009.
In the year ended December 31, 2011 the Company incurred reorganization costs of $11.8 million 2010: $13.0 million which relate to employee involuntary termination benets and other costs.
96 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 7.
Accounts receivable, net Accounts receivable at December 31, 2012 of $824.2 million December 31, 2011: $845.0 million, are stated net of a provision for discounts and doubtful accounts of $41.7 million December 31, 2011: $31.1 million, December 31, 2010: $23.4 million.
Provision for discounts and doubtful accounts: 2012 2011 2010 $M $M $M As at January 1 31.1 23.4 20.8 Provision charged to operations 283.3 240.8 178.1 Provision utilization 272.7 233.1 175.5 As at December 31 41.7 31.1 23.4 At December 31, 2012 accounts receivable included $38.5 million December 31, 2011: $73.3 million related to royalty income.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market and comprise: December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 $M $M Finished goods 124.4 99.9 Work-in-progress 220.6 162.6 Raw materials 91.9 77.6 436.9 340.1 At December 31, 2012 inventories included $nil December 31, 2011: $22.7 million of costs capitalized prior to regulatory approval of the relevant manufacturing facilities.
Prepaid expenses and other current assets December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 $M $M Prepaid expenses 31.7 46.9 Income tax receivable 130.6 48.1 Value added taxes receivable 20.9 18.9 Other current assets 38.6 61.0 221.8 174.9 10.
Investments December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 $M $M Investments in private companies 18.4 12.8 Available for sale securities 14.2 7.4 Equity method investments 6.1 9.7 38.7 29.9 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In In millions millions of of US US dolla dollar rs s, e ex xc ce ep pt t w wh he er re e indic indica at te ed d 11.
Property, plant and equipment, net December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 $M $M Land and buildings 701.2 708.0 Ofce furniture, ttings and equipment 383.8 338.1 Warehouse, laboratory and manufacturing equipment 287.2 271.9 Assets under construction 93.8 81.7 1,466.0 1,399.7 Less: Accumulated depreciation 510.2 467.6 955.8 932.1 Depreciation expense for the years to December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $113.8 million, $128.1 million and $119.2 million respectively.
Goodwill December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 $M $M Goodwill arising on businesses acquired 644.5 592.6 In 2012 the Company completed its acquisition of FerroKin.
The fair value of consideration payable totaled $159.3 million, which resulted in goodwill with a value of $46.1 million see Note 4.
The goodwill has been assigned to the SP operating segment.
During the year to December 31, 2011 the Company completed its acquisition of ABH for cash consideration of $739.6 million, which resulted in goodwill of $197.0 million see Note 4.
The goodwill has been assigned to the RM operating segment.
At December 31, 2012 goodwill of $291.1 million December 31, 2011: $243.5 million is held in the SP segment, $154.5 million December 31, 2011: $152.1 million in the HGT segment and $198.9 million December 31, 2011: $197 million is held in the RM segment.
Other intangible assets, net December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 $M $M Amortized intangible assets Intellectual property rights acquired for currently marketed products 2,462.0 2,500.7 Acquired product technology 710.0 710.0 Other intangible assets 44.5 23.2 3,216.5 3,233.9 Unamortized intangible assets Intellectual property rights acquired for IPR&D 231.0 119.8 3,447.5 3,353.7 Less: Accumulated amortization 1,059.4 860.7 2,388.1 2,493.0 As at December 31, 2012 the net book value of intangible assets allocated to the SP segment was $ 1,238.0 million December 31, 2011: $1,348.3 million, to the HGT segment was $474.6 million December 31, 2011: $453.2 million and to the RM segment was $675.5 million December 31, 2011: $691.5 million.
98 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 13.
Other intangible assets, net continued The change in the net book value of other intangible assets for the year to December 31, 2012 and 2011 is shown in the table below: Other intangible assets 2012 2011 $M $M As at January 1 2,493.0 1,978.9 Acquisitions 281.6 717.1 Amortization charged 194.8 166.7 Impairment charges 197.9 16.0 Foreign currency translation 6.2 20.3 As at December 31 2,388.1 2,493.0 In the year to December 31, 2012 the Company acquired intangible assets totaling $281.6 million, principally relating to intangible assets acquired with FerroKin and from Pervasis see Note 4 for further details and the license acquired from Mt.
Sinai School of Medicine of New York University see Note 18 for further details.
The weighted average amortization period of acquired amortizable intangible assets is seven years.
In the year to December 31, 2012 the Company identied indicators of impairment in respect of its RESOLOR intangible assets.
These indicators included the increasing challenges in the European reimbursement environment subsequent to the acquisition of Movetis and the results of an evaluation of alternative sales and marketing strategies for RESOLOR in the EU which have led to lower actual and projected revenue and profitability levels than those initially forecast at the time of the acquisition.
The Company therefore reviewed the recoverability of both its RESOLOR IPR&D assets with a carrying value of $111.9 million and its amortizing intangible asset for the RESOLOR currently marketed product with a carrying value of $253.5 million.
Subsequently the Company recorded pre tax non-cash impairment charges in the consolidated statement of income to write down these assets to their fair value.
$126.7 million was recorded within SG&A expenses in the fourth quarter of 2012 in respect of the amortizing intangible asset for the RESOLOR currently marketed product and $71.2 million was recorded within R&D expenses in respect of the RESOLOR IPR&D assets.
These impairment charges have been recorded in the SP operating segment.
The fair values of these assets were determined using the income approach, which used significant unobservable Level 3 inputs see Note 21 for further details.
After these impairment charges the carrying value of the amortizing intangible asset for the RESOLOR currently marketed product is $126.8 million and the RESOLOR IPR&D assets is $40.7 million as at December 31, 2012.
Management estimates that the annual amortization charge in respect of intangible assets held at December 31, 2012 will be approximately $200 million for each of the five years to December 31, 2017.
Estimated amortization expense can be affected by various factors including future acquisitions, disposals of product rights, regulatory approval and subsequent amortization of acquired IPR&D projects, foreign exchange movements and the technological advancement and regulatory approval of competitor products.
Accounts payable and accrued expenses December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 $M $M Trade accounts payable and accrued purchases 208.1 259.6 Accrued rebates Medicaid 455.6 409.8 Accrued rebates Managed Care 184.9 202.8 Sales return reserve 90.5 88.8 Accrued bonuses 109.0 103.0 Accrued employee compensation and benets payable 64.5 59.3 R&D accruals 73.5 52.7 Provisions for litigation losses and other claims 118.2 22.4 Other accrued expenses 197.2 172.1 1,501.5 1,370.5 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In In millions millions of of US US dolla dollar rs s, e ex xc ce ep pt t w wh he er re e indic indica at te ed d 15.
Other current liabilities December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 $M $M Income taxes payable 78.4 27.7 Value added taxes 23.6 13.3 Contingent consideration payable 16.0 Other current liabilities 26.1 22.8 144.1 63.8 16.
Convertible bonds Shire 2.75% Convertible Bonds due 2014 On May 9, 2007 Shire issued $1,100 million in principal amount of 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 and convertible into fully paid Ordinary Shares of Shire plc the Bonds.
The Bonds were issued at 100% of their principal amount, and will be redeemed on May 9, 2014 the Final Maturity Date unless purchased and canceled, redeemed for example on the occurrence of a change of control of Shire or converted prior to that date, at their principal amount.
The Bonds bear interest at 2.75% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on November 9 and May 9.
The Bonds constitute direct, unconditional, unsubordinated and unsecured obligations of the Company, and rank pari passu and ratably, without any preference amongst themselves, and equally with all other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company.
The Bonds may be redeemed at the option of the Company, at their principal amount together with accrued and unpaid interest if: i at any time after May 23, 2012 if on no less than 20 dealing days in any period of 30 consecutive dealing days the value of Shires Ordinary Shares underlying each Bond in the principal amount of $100,000 would exceed $130,000: or ii at any time conversion rights have been exercised, and or purchases and corresponding cancellations, and or redemptions effected in respect of 85% or more in principal amount of Bonds originally issued.
The bonds may also be redeemed at the option of the bond holder at their principal amount including accrued and unpaid interest on May 9, 2012 the Put Option, or following occurrence of a change of control of Shire.
The Bonds are repayable in US dollars, but also contain provisions entitling the Company to settle redemption amounts in Pounds sterling, or in the case of the Final Maturity Date and or any change of control Shire, by delivery of the underlying Ordinary Shares and a cash top-up amount.
On April 9, 2012 the deadline for Bondholders to choose to exercise their Put Option on May 9, 2012 passed.
No elections from the Bondholders were received by this date and the Bonds are now due on the Final Maturity Date, subject to the exceptions above.
As the Company is no longer required to redeem the Bonds within twelve months of the balance sheet date, the Bonds have been presented as a non-current liability at December 31, 2012.
The Bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares during the conversion period, being the period from June 18, 2007 until the earlier of: i the close of business on the date falling 14 days prior to the Final Maturity Date: ii if the Bonds have been called for redemption by the Company, the close of business 14 days before the date xed for redemption: iii the close of business on the day prior to a Bond holder giving notice of redemption in accordance with the conditions: and iv the giving of notice by the trustee that the Bonds are accelerated by reason of the occurrence of an event of default.
Upon conversion, the Bond holder is entitled to receive Ordinary Shares at the conversion price of $32.83 per Ordinary Share, subject to adjustment as outlined below.
The conversion price is subject to adjustment in respect of i any dividend or distribution by the Company, ii a change of control and iii customary anti-dilution adjustments for, inter alia, share consolidations, share splits, spin-off events, rights issues, bonus issues and reorganizations.
The initial conversion price of $33.5879 was adjusted to $33.17 with effect from March 11, 2009 as a result of cumulative dividend payments during the period from October 2007 to April 2009 inclusive, and was further adjusted to $32.83 with effect from March 11, 2011 as a result of cumulative dividend payments during the period April 2009 to April 2011 inclusive.
The Ordinary Shares issued on conversion will be delivered credited as fully paid, and will rank pari passu in all respects with all fully paid Ordinary Shares in issue on the relevant conversion date.
100 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 17.
Other non-current liabilities December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 $M $M Income taxes payable 58.9 78.3 Deferred revenue 11.4 12.2 Deferred rent 11.9 14.0 Insurance provisions 12.3 14.5 Contingent consideration payable 120.4 Other non-current liabilities 26.7 25.3 241.6 144.3 18.
Commitments and contingencies a Leases Future minimum lease payments under operating leases at December 31, 2012 are presented below: Operating leases $M 2013 49.6 2014 32.6 2015 28.4 2016 22.2 2017 18.6 Thereafter 92.9 244.3 The Company leases land, facilities, motor vehicles and certain equipment under operating leases expiring through 2032.
Lease and rental expense amounted to $43.2 million, $37.6 million and $33.3 million for the years to December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 respectively, which is predominately included in SG&A expenses in the Companys consolidated income statement.
b Letters of credit and guarantees At December 31, 2012 the Company had irrevocable standby letters of credit and guarantees with various banks and insurance companies totaling $38.2 million, providing security for the Companys performance of various obligations.
These obligations are primarily in respect of the recoverability of insurance claims, lease obligations and supply commitments.
c Collaborative arrangements Details of significant collaborative arrangements are included below: i In-licensing arrangements i Collaboration with Acceleron Pharma Inc. Acceleron for activin receptor type IIB ActRIIB class of molecules On September 9, 2010 Shire announced that it had expanded its HGT pipeline by acquiring an exclusive license in markets outside of North America for the ActRIIB class of molecules being developed by Acceleron.
The collaboration will initially focus on further developing HGT4510 also called ACE031, the lead ActRIIB drug candidate, which is in development for the treatment of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy DMD.
The Phase 2a trial is on hold and clinical safety is under review.
HGT4510 and the other ActRIIB class of molecules have the potential to be used in other muscular and neuromuscular disorders with high unmet medical need.
In the year to December 31, 2010 Shire made an upfront payment of $45 million to Acceleron which has been expensed to R&D.
In the year to December 31, 2012 Shires share of R&D costs under this collaboration agreement were $4.5 million 2011: $10.1 million: 2010: $2.7 million which were expensed to R&D.
Shire will pay Acceleron up to a further $165.0 million, subject to certain development, regulatory and sales milestones being met for HGT4510 in DMD, up to an additional $288 million for successful commercialization of other indications and molecules, and royalties on product sales.
Shire and Acceleron are conducting the collaboration through a joint steering committee, with subcommittees including a joint manufacture committee, and a joint patent committee to monitor the development of HGT4510 and other compounds.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In In millions millions of of US US dolla dollar rs s, e ex xc ce ep pt t w wh he er re e indic indica at te ed d annual net sales by the licensee.
Commitments and contingencies Shire received up-front and milestone payments totaling $18.3 continued million 2011: $11.5 million, 2010: $nil.
In the year to December 31, 2012 Shire recognized milestone income of $19.4 million 2011: ii Research Collaboration with Santaris Pharma A S Santaris $17.5 million, 2010: $8.4 million in other revenues and $83.8 million on Locked Nucleic Acid LNA Drug Platform 2011: $65.2 million, 2010: $51.1 million in product sales for On August 24, 2009 Shire announced that it had entered into a shipment of product to the relevant licensee.
research collaboration with Santaris, to develop its proprietary LNA technology in a range of rare diseases.
LNA technology has the i Collaboration with Shionogi & Co. Limited Shionogi for ADHD benefit of shortened target validation and proof of concept, Medicines in Japan potentially increasing the speed and lowering the cost of On November 18, 2011 Shire announced that it had entered into an development.
As part of the joint research project Santaris will agreement with Shionogi to co-develop and co-commercialize design, develop and deliver preclinical LNA oligonucleotides for certain of Shires ADHD medicines in Japan.
Shionogi paid Shire an Shire-selected orphan disease targets, and Shire will have the up-front fee and will share costs with Shire in exchange for rights to exclusive right to further develop and commercialize these jointly co-develop and co-commercialize the products upon candidate compounds on a worldwide basis.
approval for the Japanese market.
Shionogi is a leading Japanese pharmaceutical company with an expertise in developing In the year to December 31, 2012 Shire paid success milestones of medicines for the central nervous system, among other therapeutic $3.0 million 2011: $2.5 million: 2010: $4.0 million and other areas.
Working together with the Shionogi team, Shire believes the support costs of $8.1 million 2011: $5.3 million: 2010: $2.3 million path to regulatory approval, market development and to Santaris, which were expensed to R&D.
Shire has remaining commercialization for ADHD medicines will be more effective and obligations to pay Santaris $13.5 million subject to certain success efficient.
criteria, and development and sales milestones up to a maximum of $69 million for each indication.
Shire will also pay single or In the year to December 31, 2012 Shires share of R&D costs under double digit tiered royalties on net sales of the product.
this collaboration agreement were $3.2 million 2011: $nil: 2010: $nil million which were expensed to R&D.
Shire and Santaris have formed a joint research committee to monitor R&D activities through preclinical lead candidate selection iii Co-promotion agreements VYVANSE at which point all development and commercialization costs will be Shire terminated its co-promotion agreement for VYVANSE with the responsibility of Shire.
Following Shires termination, GSK led a lawsuit against Shire in the Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas relating to iii Collaboration and license agreement with Sangamo the co-promotion agreement.
On June 29, 2012 Shire and GSK On February 1, 2012 Shire and Sangamo announced that they had settled this dispute.
The terms of the settlement are condential.
entered into a collaboration and license agreement to develop therapeutics for hemophilia and other monogenic diseases based d Commitments on Sangamos zinc nger DNA-binding protein ZFP technology.
i Clinical testing Sangamo is responsible for all activities through submission of At December 31, 2012 the Company had committed to pay Investigational New Drug Applications and European Clinical Trial approximately $424.7 million December 31, 2011: $358.6 million Applications for each product and Shire will reimburse Sangamo to contract vendors for administering and executing clinical trials.
for its internal and external research program-related costs.
Shire is The timing of these payments is dependent upon actual services responsible for clinical development and commercialization of performed by the organizations as determined by patient products arising from the collaboration.
Shire paid Sangamo an enrollment levels and related activities.
up-front fee of $13.0 million in the year to December 31, 2012 ii Contract manufacturing 2011: $nil and may be required to pay research, regulatory, At December 31, 2012 the Company had committed to pay development and commercial milestone payments, and approximately $125.2 million December 31, 2011: $86.4 million in royalties on product sales.
The Company expects to pay In the year to December 31, 2012 Shire paid costs of $8.9 million all of these commitments in 2013.
2011: $nil: 2010: $nil to Sangamo, which were expensed to R&D.
iii Other purchasing commitments Shire has remaining obligations to pay Sangamo $33.5 million At December 31, 2012 the Company had committed to pay subject to certain success criteria, and development and sales approximately $144.7 million December 31, 2011: $190.1 million for milestones up to a maximum of $180 million for each indication.
future purchases of goods and services, predominantly relating to ii Out-licensing arrangements active pharmaceutical ingredients sourcing.
The Company expects Shire has entered into various collaborative arrangements under to pay $141.5 million of these commitments in 2013. which the Company has out-licensed certain product or intellectual iv Investment commitments property rights for consideration such as up-front payments, At December 31, 2012 the Company had outstanding development milestones, sales milestones and or royalty commitments to subscribe for interests in companies and payments.
In some of these arrangements Shire and the licensee partnerships for amounts totaling $15.2 million December 31, 2011: are both actively involved in the development and $9.4 million which may all be payable in 2013, depending on the commercialization of the licensed product and have exposure to timing of capital calls.
risks and rewards dependent on its commercial success.
Under the terms of these arrangements, the Company may receive v Capital commitments development milestone payments up to an aggregate amount of At December 31, 2012 the Company had committed to spend $39.0 million and sales milestones up to an aggregate amount of $97.0 million December 31, 2011: $25.4 million on capital projects.
The receipt of these substantive milestones is uncertain and contingent on the achievement of certain development milestones or the achievement of a specified level of 102 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements INTUNIV 18.
Commitments and contingencies In March and April 2010, Shire was notied that three separate continued ANDAs were submitted under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market generic versions of all approved strengths of e Legal and other proceedings INTUNIV.
The notices were from Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.
The Company expenses legal costs as they are incurred.
and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. collectively, Teva : The Company recognizes loss contingency provisions for probable Actavis: and Anchen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Anchen, Inc. losses when management is able to reasonably estimate the loss.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire When the estimated loss lies within a range, the Company records led lawsuits in the US District Court for the District of Delaware a loss contingency provision based on its best estimate of the against each of Teva, Actavis and Anchen for infringement of probable loss.
If no particular amount within that range is a better certain of Shires INTUNIV patents.
The ling of the lawsuits estimate than any other amount, the minimum amount is recorded.
triggered a stay of approval of these ANDAs for up to 30 months.
Estimates of losses are often developed substantially before the These lawsuits have been consolidated.
A Markman hearing was ultimate loss is known, and are therefore rened each accounting held on February 14, 2012, and a written Markman decision was period as additional information becomes known.
In instances given by the court on March 22, 2012.
The Anchen lawsuit was where the Company is unable to develop a reasonable estimate of settled in September 2012.
This settlement provides TWi loss, no loss contingency provision is recorded at that time.
As Pharmaceuticals, Inc. TWi, the acquirer of Anchens ANDA, with information becomes known a loss contingency provision is a license to make, and Anchen a license to market, TWis generic recorded when a reasonable estimate can be made.
The estimates versions of INTUNIV in the United States on July 1, 2016, or earlier are reviewed quarterly and the estimates are changed when in certain circumstances.
Such sales will require the payment of a expectations are revised.
An outcome that deviates from the royalty to Shire, except in certain circumstances.
Also as part of the Companys estimate may result in an additional expense or release settlement, under certain circumstances Shire may authorize in a future accounting period.
At December 31, 2012 provisions for Anchen to sell authorized generic versions of INTUNIV supplied by litigation losses, insurance claims and other disputes totaled $130.5 Shire, on which Shire will receive a significant royalty.
A bench trial million December 31, 2011: $36.9 million.
against Actavis and Teva was held from September 17, 2012 through September 20, 2012.
A decision has not yet been given.
The Companys principal pending legal and other proceedings are disclosed below.
The outcomes of these proceedings are not In October 2010, Shire was notied that two separate ANDAs were always predictable and can be affected by various factors.
For submitted under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to those legal and other proceedings for which it is considered at market generic versions of the 4mg strength of INTUNIV.
The least reasonably possible that a loss has been incurred, the notices were from Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and from Impax Company discloses the possible loss or range of possible loss in Laboratories, Inc. Impax.
Shire was subsequently advised that excess of the recorded loss contingency provision, if any, where Impax amended its ANDA to include the 1mg, 2mg and 3mg such excess is both material and estimable.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire led a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Northern District of VYVANSE California against each of Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Watson In May and June 2011, Shire was notied that six separate Laboratories, Inc. -Florida, Watson Pharma, Inc. ANDA, Inc. Abbreviated New Drug Applications ANDAs were submitted collectively Watson and Impax for infringement of certain of under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market Shires INTUNIV patents.
The ling of the lawsuit triggered a stay of generic versions of all approved strengths of VYVANSE.
The approval of these ANDAs for up to 30 months.
A Markman hearing notices were from Sandoz, Inc. Sandoz : Amneal was held on May 30, 2012, and a written Markman decision was Pharmaceuticals LLC Amneal : Watson Laboratories, Inc. : given by the court on June 1, 2012.
A trial is scheduled to begin on Roxane Laboratories, Inc. Roxane : Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. : February 10, 2014. and Actavis Elizabeth LLC and Actavis Inc. collectively, Actavis.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire led lawsuits for In February 2011, Shire was notied that Mylan Pharmaceuticals, infringement of certain of Shires VYVANSE patents in the US Inc. submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking District Court for the District of New Jersey against each of permission to market a generic version of the 4mg strength of Sandoz, Roxane, Amneal and Actavis: in the US District Court for INTUNIV.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire led a lawsuit in the Central District of California against Watson Laboratories, Inc. : the US District Court for the Southern District of New York against and in the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York Mylan for infringement of certain of Shires INTUNIV patents.
In April against Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Mylan Inc. collectively 2011, Shire led a lawsuit against Mylan in the US District Court for Mylan.
On December 9, 2011, the District Court of New Jersey the District of West Virginia for infringement of certain of Shires consolidated the Sandoz, Roxane, Amneal and Actavis cases.
On INTUNIV patents and dismissed the lawsuit in the Southern District January 5, 2012, the Watson case was transferred to the District of New York.
The ling of the lawsuit in West Virginia did not trigger Court of New Jersey, but not consolidated with the other cases.
a stay of approval of this ANDA.
Shire was subsequently advised The ling of the lawsuits triggered a stay of approval of all six that Mylan amended its ANDA to include the 1mg, 2mg and 3mg ANDAs for up to 30 months from the expiration of the new strengths of INTUNIV.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire led chemical entity exclusivity, which will expire on August 23, 2014.
In another lawsuit against Mylan in the US District Court for the December 2011 and February 2012, Shire received additional District of West Virginia.
A Markman hearing was held on notications that Mylan had led further certications challenging September 6, 2012 and a written Markman decision was given by other VYVANSE patents listed in the Orange Book.
Within the the court on January 14, 2013.
A trial is scheduled to start on requisite 45 day period, Shire led a new lawsuit against Mylan, December 2, 2013.
Johnson Matthey Pharmaceutical Materials and Johnson Matthey Inc. in New Jersey.
In May 2012, the Mylan case that was led in the Eastern District of New York was transferred and consolidated with the Sandoz, Roxane, Amneal and Actavis cases in New Jersey.
No trial dates have been set.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated approved strengths of FOSRENOL.
Commitments and contingencies period, Shire led lawsuits in the US District Court for the Southern continued District of New York against each of Barr, Mylan-Matrix and Natco and in both the US District Court for the Southern District of New In March 2011, Shire was notied that Sandoz had submitted an York and the US District Court for the Northern District of Illinois ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market against Alkem for infringement of certain of Shires FOSRENOL a generic version of the 4mg strength of INTUNIV.
In April 2011, Shire and Barr reached a settlement which requisite 45 day period, Shire led a lawsuit in the US District Court provides Barr with a license to market its own generic version of for the District of Colorado against Sandoz for infringement of FOSRENOL in the US but only after October 1, 2021, or earlier certain of Shires INTUNIV patents.
The ling of the lawsuit triggered under certain circumstances.
No payments to Barr are involved a stay of approval of this ANDA for up to 30 months.
Shire was with the settlement.
As a result of the settlement, the lawsuit subsequently advised that Sandoz amended its ANDA to include against Barr was subsequently dismissed.
The lawsuits against the 1mg, 2mg and 3mg strengths of INTUNIV.
Within the requisite both Mylan-Matrix and Alkem have been dismissed, and 45 day period, Shire led another lawsuit against Sandoz in the US consequently, each of Mylan-Matrix and Alkem may enter the District Court for the District of Colorado.
The ling of the lawsuit market upon US Food and Drug Administration FDA approval of triggered a stay of approval of the 1mg, 2mg and 3mg strengths for their respective versions of generic FOSRENOL.
A Markman hearing was held on August 10, 2012 30 month stay of approval with respect to Natco expired.
No trial and a written Markman decision was given by the court on date has been set with respect to Natco.
A trial is scheduled to begin on November 8, 2013.
In January 2013 Shire was notied that Mylan Pharmaceuticals ULC.
had submitted an abbreviated new drug submission seeking On March 22, 2012, US Patent No.
5,854,290, one of the patentspermission to market generic versions of all approved strengths of in-suit in all the INTUNIV litigations referenced above was dedicated FOSRENOL in Canada.
Shire is currently reviewing the details of to the public by the inventors.
Two other patents relating to the notication and has 45 days from its receipt to determine if it formulations of guanfacine remain in each of the lawsuits regarding will le an action under the Canadian Patented Medicines Notice of INTUNIV.
Those two patents expire on December 20, 2020 and Compliance Regulations.
If Shire brings an action, a stay of July 4, 2022. approval of up to 24 months will be imposed by Health Canada on REPLAGAL Mylan Pharmaceuticals ULCs submission.
Sinai School of Medicine of New York University Mt.
Sinai LIALDA initiated lawsuits against Shire in Sweden on April 14, 2010, and in In May 2010 Shire was notied that Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA, Germany on April 20, 2010, alleging that Shires enzyme Inc. Zydus had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman replacement therapy ERT for Fabry disease, REPLAGAL, Act seeking permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
1 942 189, granted Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire led a lawsuit in the US April 14, 2010.
Sinai sought injunctions against the use of District Court for the District of Delaware against Zydus and Cadila REPLAGAL in these jurisdictions until expiration of the patent.
Healthcare Limited, doing business as Zydus Cadila.
Sinai has been granted Supplementary Protection Certicates the lawsuit triggered a stay of approval of the ANDA for up to 30 SPC in respect of the patent in certain EU countries including months.
All scheduled dates in the lawsuit have been vacated, Sweden and Germany which, where granted, extends the patent including the Markman hearing date originally scheduled for April until August 2016.
Where no SPC has been granted, the patent 26, 2012 and the trial date originally scheduled for October 8, 2012. expires in November 2013.
No dates have been rescheduled.
Shire led an opposition against Mt.
Sinais patent before the In February 2012, Shire was notied that Osmotica Pharmaceutical European Patent Ofce EPO on July 23, 2010, and commenced Corporation Osmotica had submitted an ANDA under the invalidity proceedings in the UK on December 8, 2010.
Sinai Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic counterclaimed alleging infringement in the UK proceedings.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire led a On May 9, 2012, Shire and Mt.
Sinai agreed to settle all lawsuit in the US District Court for the Northern District of Georgia proceedings in connection with the validity and infringement by against Osmotica.
The ling of the lawsuit triggered a stay of REPLAGAL of Mt.
The approval of the ANDA for up to 30 months.
A Markman hearing is parties agreed to discontinue all court and related proceedings in scheduled for February 2013, although no specic date has been this dispute, and Mt.
Sinai has granted Shire a non-exclusive set.
No trial date has been set.
license to the patent in connection with the ongoing sales of In March 2012, Shire was notied that Watson Laboratories REPLAGAL in the EU and in certain other non-EU territories.
Shire Inc. -Florida had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act has made an up-front cash payment to Mt.
Sinai and will make seeking permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
Within additional cash payments based on REPLAGAL sales over the the requisite 45 day period, Shire led a lawsuit in the US District license term.
Court for the Southern District of Florida against Watson FOSRENOL Laboratories Inc. -Florida and Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
The In February 2009 Shire was notied that three separate ANDAs ling of the lawsuit triggered a stay of approval of the ANDA for up were submitted under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to 30 months.
In August 2012, Shire led an amended complaint to market generic versions of all approved strengths of adding Watson Pharma, Inc. and Watson Laboratories, Inc. as FOSRENOL.
The notices were received from Barr Laboratories, defendants.
A Markman hearing was held on December 20, 2012 Inc. Barr : Mylan, Inc. Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Matrix and a written Markman decision was given by the court on January Laboratories, Inc. collectively, Mylan-Matrix : and Natco Pharma 17, 2013.
A trial is scheduled to occur during the two week period Limited Natco.
In December 2010, Shire was notied that Alkem beginning on April 8, 2013.
Laboratories Ltd. Alkem submitted an ANDA under the HatchWaxman Act seeking permission to market generic versions of all 104 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements of Dismissal was ordered by the Judge on January 23, 2013, and 18.
Commitments and contingencies the litigation has been dismissed.
continued DERMAGRAFT In April 2012, Shire was notied that Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. On January 4, 2013 Shire was notied that the Massachusetts had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking Institute of Technology MIT led a lawsuit against Shire in the US permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
Within the District Court for the District of Massachusetts, alleging that Shires requisite 45 day period, Shire led a lawsuit in the US District Court manufacture, use and sale of DERMAGRAFT infringes patents for the Middle District of Florida against Mylan.
The ling of the owned by MIT.
The three US patents asserted by MIT are US lawsuit triggered a stay of approval of the ANDA for up to 30 Patent Nos.
No date for a Markman hearing has been set.
A trial is been served with a Complaint and no trial date has been set.
scheduled to begin on June 2, 2014.
Subpoena related to ADDERALL XR, DAYTRANA ADDERALL XR and VYVANSE On November 1, 2010 Impax led suit against Shire in the US On September 23, 2009 the Company received a civil subpoena District Court for the Southern District of New York claiming that from the US Department of Health and Human Services Ofce of Shire was in breach of its supply contract for the authorized generic Inspector General in coordination with the US Attorney for the version of ADDERALL XR.
Shires ability to supply this product is Eastern District of Pennsylvania seeking production of documents limited by quota restrictions that the US Drug Enforcement related to the sales and marketing of ADDERALL XR, DAYTRANA Administration places on amphetamine, which is the products and VYVANSE.
The investigation covered whether Shire engaged active ingredient.
Impax sought specic performance, equitable in off-label promotion and other conduct that may implicate the civil relief and damages.
Shire led a counterclaim against Impax False Claims Act.
seeking damages and a declaratory judgment that Shire had On February 1, 2013 the Company announced it had reached an satisfied its obligations under the supply contract.
agreement in principle to resolve this matter.
The agreement also On February 7, 2013 Shire and Impax settled this dispute and addresses sales and marketing practices relating to LIALDA and agreed to discontinue all court and related proceedings.
Under the PENTASA pursuant to a subsequent voluntary disclosure made by terms of the settlement Shire will make a one-time cash payment to the Company.
Shire cooperated with the US Government Impax of $48.0 million.
Also as part of the settlement, the parties throughout the process that led to this agreement in principle.
have entered into an amended supply agreement which will govern The Company has recorded a $57.5 million charge comprised of the supply of authorized generic ADDERALL XR from Shire to the agreement in principle amount, interest and costs, which has Impax until the end of the supply term on September 30, 2014. been charged to SG&A in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The In February 2011, Shire was notied that Watson Laboratories, agreement in principle is subject to change until this matter is nally Inc. -Florida had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act resolved.
Discussions between the Company and the US seeking permission to market a generic version of all approved Government are ongoing to establish a final resolution to the strengths of ADDERALL XR.
This new ANDA is not covered under investigation.
the existing settlement agreements entered into in November 2007 Investigation related to DERMAGRAFT between Shire and Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. the Settlement Shire understands that the Department of Justice, including the US Agreements.
The Settlement Agreements cover a different ANDA Attorneys Ofce for the Middle District of Florida, Tampa Division and do not provide any license for Watson Laboratories, Inc. - and the US Attorneys Ofce for Washington, DC, is conducting Florida to sell the products covered in Watson Laboratories, civil and criminal investigations into the sales and marketing Inc. -Floridas new ANDA.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire practices of ABH relating to DERMAGRAFT.
Shire is cooperating led a lawsuit in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of fully with these investigations.
Shire is not in a position at this time New York against Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Watson to predict the scope, duration or outcome of these investigations.
Laboratories, Inc. -Florida, Watson Pharm, Inc. Andrx Corporation, and Andrx Pharmaceuticals, L. L. C. for infringement of certain of Civil Investigative Demand for ADDERALL XR, ADDERALL XR Shires ADDERALL XR patents and also for breach of contract in Authorized Generics and VYVANSE connection with the Settlement Agreements.
The ling of the On April 5, 2012 Shire received a Civil Investigative Demand CID lawsuit triggered a stay of approval of this ANDA for up to 30 from the United States Federal Trade Commission FTC months.
A Markman hearing was held on June 13, 2012 but no requesting that Shire provide it with certain information regarding decision has been rendered.
On June 22, 2012, the FDA the supply and reported shortages of ADDERALL XR and its responded to Shires ADDERALL XR citizen petition and set forth authorized generics and the marketing and sale of ADDERALL XR, more stringent bioequivalence standards that all ANDAs for its authorized generics and VYVANSE.
Shire believes the CID was ADDERALL XR must meet for approval.
On July 30, 2012, Shire triggered by reports of product shortages of ADDERALL XR and led a request with the U. S. District Court for the Southern District the authorized generic products in 2011.
Shire is cooperating fully of New York seeking a 90-day stay of these legal proceedings with the FTC.
At this time, Shire is unable to predict the outcome or because Shire believes Watson Laboratories, Inc. -Floridas ANDA duration of this investigation.
fails to meet the FDAs new bioequivalence standards and will not receive FDA approval.
The judge granted the 90-day stay on August 3, 2012.
On January 18, 2013, Shire, in conjunction with Watson and Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. the  to Watsons ANDA for ADDERALL XR, led a Stipulation and Order of Dismissal for all claims, counterclaims and defenses.
Shire agreed to dismiss the pending proceedings without prejudice because Par has withdrawn its ANDA for ADDERALL XR and therefore Shire has no reason to continue with the litigation.
The Stipulation and Order Shire plc Annual Report 2012 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 19.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income The changes in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of their related tax effects, in the year to December 31, 2012 are included below: Unrealized Foreign holding gain Accumulated currency loss on other translation available for comprehensive adjustment sale securities income $M $M $M As at January 1, 2012 61.4 1.1 60.3 Current period change 23.7 2.9 26.6 As at December 31, 2012 85.1 1.8 86.9 20.
Financial instruments Treasury policies and organization The Companys principal treasury operations are coordinated by its corporate treasury function.
All treasury operations are conducted within a framework of policies and procedures approved annually by the Board.
As a matter of policy, the Company does not undertake speculative transactions that would increase its currency or interest rate exposure.
Interest rate risk The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on restricted cash, cash and cash equivalents and on foreign exchange contracts on which interest is at oating rates.
This exposure is primarily related to US Dollar, Pounds Sterling, Euro and Canadian Dollar interest rates.
As the Company maintains all of its cash, liquid investments and foreign exchange contracts on a short term basis for liquidity purposes, this risk is not actively managed.
In the year to December 31, 2012 the average interest rate received on cash and liquid investments was less than 1% per annum.
The largest proportion of these cash and liquid investments was in US Dollar money market and liquidity funds.
The Company incurs interest at a xed rate of 2.75% on its $1,100 million in principal amount convertible bonds due 2014.
No derivative instruments were entered into during the year to December 31, 2012 to manage interest rate exposure.
The Company continues to review its interest rate risk and the policies in place to manage the risk.
Credit risk Financial instruments that potentially expose Shire to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of short term cash investments, derivative contracts and trade accounts receivable from product sales and from third parties from which the Company receives royalties.
Cash is invested in short term money market instruments, including money market and liquidity funds and bank term deposits.
The money market and liquidity funds in which Shire invests are all triple A rated by both Standard and Poors and by Moodys credit rating agencies.
The Company is exposed to the credit risk of the counterparties with which it enters into derivative instruments.
The Company limits this exposure through a system of internal credit limits which vary according to ratings assigned to the counterparties by the major rating agencies.
The internal credit limits are approved by the Board and exposure against these limits is monitored by the corporate treasury function.
The counterparties to these derivatives contracts are major international financial institutions.
The Companys revenues from product sales in the US are mainly governed by agreements with major pharmaceutical wholesalers and relationships with other pharmaceutical distributors and retail pharmacy chains.
For the year to December 31, 2012 there were three customers in the US that accounted for 50% of the Companys product sales.
However, such customers typically have significant cash resources and as such the risk from concentration of credit is considered acceptable.
The Company has taken positive steps to manage any credit risk associated with these transactions and operates clearly dened credit evaluation procedures.
However, an inability of one or more of these wholesalers to honor their debts to the Company could have an adverse effect on the Companys financial condition and results of operations.
A substantial portion of the Companys accounts receivable in countries outside of the United States is derived from product sales to government-owned or government-supported healthcare providers.
The Companys recovery of these accounts receivable is therefore dependent upon the financial stability and creditworthiness of the relevant governments.
In recent years the creditworthiness and general economic condition of a number of Eurozone countries including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain the Relevant Countries has deteriorated.
As a result, in some of these countries the Company is experiencing delays in the remittance of receivables due from government-owned or government-supported healthcare providers.
The Company continued to receive remittances in relation to government-owned or government-supported healthcare providers in all the Relevant Countries in the year to December 31, 2012, including receipts of $118.7 million and $142.3 million in respect of Spanish and Italian receivables, respectively.
106 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 20.
Financial instruments continued To date the Company has not incurred significant losses on accounts receivable in the Relevant Countries, and continues to consider that such accounts receivable are recoverable.
The Company will continue to evaluate all its accounts receivable for potential collection risks and has made provision for amounts where collection is considered to be doubtful.
If the financial condition of the Relevant Countries or other Eurozone countries suffer significant deterioration, such that their ability to make payments becomes uncertain, or if one or more Eurozone member countries withdraws from the Euro, additional allowances for doubtful accounts may be required, and losses may be incurred, in future periods.
Any such loss could have an adverse effect on the Companys financial condition and results of operations.
Foreign exchange risk The Company trades in numerous countries and as a consequence has transactional and translational foreign exchange exposures.
Transactional exposure arises where transactions occur in currencies different to the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
The main trading currencies of the Company are the US Dollar, Pounds Sterling, Swiss Franc and the Euro.
It is the Companys policy that these exposures are minimized to the extent practicable by denominating transactions in the subsidiarys functional currency.
Where significant exposures remain, the Company uses foreign exchange contracts being spot, forward and swap contracts to manage the exposure for balance sheet assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies different to the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
These assets and liabilities relate predominantly to intercompany nancing and specic external receivables.
The foreign exchange contracts have not been designated as hedging instruments.
Cash ows from derivative instruments are presented within net cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated cash ow statement, unless the derivative instruments are economically hedging specic investing or nancing activities.
Translational foreign exchange exposure arises on the translation into US dollars of the financial statements of non-US dollar functional subsidiaries.
At December 31, 2012 the Company had 19 swap and forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding to manage currency risk.
The swaps and forward contracts mature within 90 days.
The Company did not have credit risk related contingent features or collateral linked to the derivatives.
At December 31, 2012 the fair value of these contracts was a net liabilities of $1.7 million.
Further details are included below: Fair value Fair value December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 $M $M Assets: Prepaid expenses and other current assets 1.3 3.4 Liabilities: Other current liabilities 3.0 0.4 Net gains both realized and unrealized arising on foreign exchange contracts have been classied in the consolidated statements of income as follows: Location of net gain Amount of net gain recognized in income recognized in income December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 Year to $M $M Foreign exchange contracts Other income, net 6.2 21.3 These net foreign exchange gains are offset within Other income, net by net foreign exchange gains losses arising on the balance sheet items that these contracts were put in place to manage.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 21.
Fair value measurement Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis As at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 the following financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a recurring basis using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets Level 1 : significant other observable inputs Level 2 : and significant unobservable inputs Level 3.
Carrying value Fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 At December 31, 2012 $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets: 1 Available for sale securities 14.2 14.2 14.2 2 Contingent consideration receivable 38.3 38.3 38.3 Foreign exchange contracts 1.3 1.3 1.3 Financial liabilities: Foreign exchange contracts 3.0 3.0 3.0 3 Contingent consideration payable 136.4 136.4 136.4 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 At December 31, 2011 $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets: 1 Available for sale securities 7.4 7.4 7.4 2 Contingent consideration receivable 37.8 37.8 37.8 Foreign exchange contracts 3.4 3.4 3.4 Financial liabilities: Foreign exchange contracts 0.4 0.4 0.4 3 Contingent consideration payable 1 Available for sale securities are included within Investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
2 Contingent consideration receivable is included within Prepaid expenses and other current assets and Other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheet.
3 Contingent consideration payable is included within Other current liabilities and Other non-current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Certain estimates and judgments were required to develop the fair value amounts.
The fair value amounts shown above are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company would realize upon disposition, nor do they indicate the Companys intent or ability to dispose of the financial instrument.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each material class of financial instrument: Q Available for sale securities the fair values of available for sale securities are estimated based on quoted market prices for those investments.
Q Contingent consideration receivable the fair value of the contingent consideration receivable has been estimated using the income approach using a probability weighted discounted cash ow method.
Q Foreign exchange contracts the fair values of the swap and forward foreign exchange contracts have been determined using an income approach based on current market expectations about the future cash ows.
Q Contingent consideration payable the fair value of the contingent consideration payable has been estimated using the income approach using a probability weighted discounted cash ow method.
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis Using significant Unobservable Inputs Level 3 The change in the fair value of the Companys contingent consideration receivable and payables, which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs Level 3, are as follows: Contingent consideration receivable 2012 2011 $M $M Balance at beginning of period 37.8 61.0 Gain loss recognized in the income statement within Gain loss on sale of product rights due to change in fair value during the period 18.1 6.0 Reclassication of amounts to Other receivables within Other current assets 18.7 16.5 Amounts recorded to other comprehensive income within foreign currency translation adjustments 1.1 0.7 Balance at end of period 38.3 37.8 108 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 21.
Fair value measurement continued Contingent consideration payable 2012 2011 $M $M Balance at beginning of period Initial recognition of contingent consideration payable 127.8 Loss recognized in the income statement within Integration and acquisition costs due to change in fair value during the period 9.2 Reclassication of amounts to Other current liabilities 8.8 Change in fair value during the period with corresponding adjustment to the associated intangible asset 8.2 Balance at end of period 136.4 Quantitative Information about Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis Using significant Unobservable Inputs Level 3 Quantitative information about the Companys recurring Level 3 fair value measurements is included below: Financial assets: Fair Value at the Measurement Date Fair value Valuation significant At December 31, 2012 $M technique unobservable inputs Range Contingent consideration 38.3 Income approach Probability weightings 10 to 50% receivable CCR probability weighted applied to different discounted cash ow sales scenarios Future forecast royalties $19 million receivable at relevant to $181 million contractual royalty rates Assumed market 5.4% participant discount rate Financial liabilities: Fair Value at the Measurement Date Fair value Valuation significant At December 31, 2012 $M technique unobservable inputs Range Contingent consideration payable 136.4 Income approach Cumulative probability 19 to 45% probability weighted of milestones Weighted average discounted cash ow being achieved Assumed 5.9 to 8.7% market participant Weighted average discount rate Periods in which 2013 to 2028 milestones are expected to be achieved Forecast quarterly $2.9 to $3.4 million royalties payable on net sales of relevant products The Company re-measures the CCR relating to contingent consideration due to the Company following divestment of one of the Companys products at fair value at each balance sheet date, with the fair value measurement based on forecast cash ows, over a number of scenarios which vary depending on the expected performance outcome of the product following divestment.
The forecast cash ows under each of these differing outcomes have been included in probability weighted estimates used by the Company in determining the fair value of the CCR.
Contingent consideration payable represents future amounts the Company may be required to pay in conjunction with the FerroKin and Pervasis business combinations see Note 4 and the license acquired from Mt.
The amount of contingent consideration which may ultimately be payable by Shire in relation to the FerroKin and Pervasis business combinations is dependent upon the achievement of specified future milestones, such as the achievement of certain future development, regulatory and sales milestones.
The Company assesses the probability, and estimated timing, of these milestones being achieved and re-measures the related contingent consideration to fair value each balance sheet date.
The amount of contingent consideration which may ultimately be payable by Shire in relation to the license acquired from Mt.
Sinai is dependent upon future net sales of REPLAGAL in the relevant territories over the life of the license.
The Company assesses the present value of forecast future net sales of REPLAGAL and remeasures the related contingent consideration to fair value each balance sheet date.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 21.
Fair value measurement continued The fair value of the Companys contingent consideration receivable and payable could signicantly increase or decrease due to changes in certain assumptions which underpin the fair value measurements.
Each set of assumptions and milestones are specic to the individual contingent consideration receivable or payable.
The assumptions include, among other things, the probability and expected timing of certain milestones being achieved, the forecast future net sales of REPLAGAL and related future royalties payable, the probability weightings applied to different sales scenarios of one of the Companys divested products and forecast future royalties receivable under scenarios developed by the Company, and the discount rates used to determine the present value of contingent future cash ows.
The Company regularly reviews these assumptions, and makes adjustments to the fair value measurements as required by facts and circumstances.
Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis using significant Unobservable Inputs Level 3 In the year to December 31, 2012 the Company recognized impairment charges totaling $197.9 million to write down its RESOLOR intangible assets to their fair values see Note 13 for details.
The fair values of these intangible assets were determined using the income approach, which used significant unobservable Level 3 inputs.
These unobservable inputs included, among other things, forecast future RESOLOR revenues in light of the continuing challenges in the European reimbursement environment and the results of an evaluation of alternative sales and marketing strategies for RESOLOR in the EU, and the determination of appropriate market participant discount rates and tax rates to be applied in calculating the present value of forecast future cash ows arising from these intangible assets.
Quantitative information about these non-recurring Level 3 fair value measurements is included below: Fair Value at the Measurement Date Fair value Valuation significant At December 31, 2012 $M Technique unobservable Inputs Range RESOLOR Intangibles 167.5 Income approach Decline in forecast 41% discounted cash ow peak sales following results of an evaluation of alternative selling strategies Assumed market 7.7% to 8.7% participant discount rate Assumed market 15% participant effective tax rate Financial assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis The carrying amounts and estimated fair values as at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 of the Companys financial assets and liabilities which are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis are as follows: December 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value Year to $M $M $M $M Financial liabilities: Convertible bonds Level 1 1,100.0 1,228.2 1,100.0 1,309.7 Building nancing obligation Level 3 8.0 10.3 8.2 9.7 Certain estimates and judgments were required to develop the fair value amounts.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each material class of financial instrument: Q Convertible bonds the fair value of Shires $1,100 million 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 is determined by reference to the market price of the instrument as the convertible bonds are publicly traded.
Q Building finance obligations the fair value of building finance obligations are estimated based on the present value of future cash ows, and an estimate of the residual value of the underlying property at the end of the lease term, associated with these obligations.
The carrying amounts of other financial assets and liabilities materially approximate to their fair value because of the short term maturity of these amounts.
110 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 22.
Shareholders equity Authorized common stock The authorized stock of Shire plc as at December 31, 2012 was 1,000,000,000 Ordinary Shares and two subscriber Ordinary Shares.
Dividends Under Jersey law, Shire plc is entitled to make payments of dividends from its accumulated profits and other distributable reserves.
At December 31, 2012 Shire plcs distributable reserves were approximately $9.5 billion.
Treasury stock The Company records the purchase of its own shares by the EBT and under the share buy-back program as a reduction of shareholders equity based on the price paid for the shares.
At December 31, 2012, the EBT held 3.8 million Ordinary Shares 2011: 4.6 million: 2010: 4.4 million and 1.1 million ADSs 2011: 2.4 million: 2010: 3.2 million and shares held under share buy-back program were 2.7 million Ordinary Shares 2011: nil: 2010: nil and 0.3 million ADSs 2011: nil: 2010: nil.
During the year to December 31, 2012 a total of 4.5 million 2011: 2.7 million: 2010: 0.02 million Ordinary Shares and 0.9 million 2011: 0.8 million: 2009: 0.02 million ADSs had been purchased for total consideration of $205.8 million 2011: $151.8 million: 2010: $1.7 million, including stamp duty and broker commission.
Share buy-back program During the year the Company has commenced a share buy-back program, for the purpose of returning funds to shareholders, of up to $500 million through both direct purchases of Ordinary Shares and through the purchase of Ordinary Shares underlying American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
The purchases have been made through independent third parties who make their trading decisions independently of, and uninuenced by the Company.
The independence of the third parties enables the Company to continue to purchase Ordinary Shares including Ordinary Shares underlying ADRs during close periods and other prohibited periods, should they arise.
During the year ended December 31, 2012 the Company made on-market repurchases totaling 3,631,571 Ordinary shares at a cost of $106.5 million including transaction costs.
This represents 0.65% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the year end.
The program covers purchases of Ordinary Shares for cancellation or to be held as treasury shares, in accordance with the authority renewed by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on April 24, 2012, when the Company was authorized to make market purchases of up to 56,253,208 of its own Ordinary Shares.
That authority will expire at the 2013 AGM and in accordance with usual practice a resolution to renew it for another year will be proposed.
The shares purchased to date are held as treasury shares.
Income Access Share Arrangements IAS Trust Shire has put into place income access arrangements which enable ordinary shareholders, other than ADS holders, to choose whether they receive their dividends from Shire, a company tax resident in the Republic of Ireland, or from Shire Biopharmaceutical Holdings Old Shire, a Shire group company tax resident in the UK.
Old Shire has issued one income access share to the Income Access Trust the IAS Trust which is held by the trustee of the IAS Trust the Trustee.
The mechanics of the arrangements are as follows: i If a dividend is announced or declared by Shire plc on its Ordinary Shares, an amount is paid by Old Shire by way of a dividend on the income access share to the Trustee, and such amount is paid by the Trustee to ordinary shareholders who have elected or are deemed to have elected to receive dividends under these arrangements.
The dividend which would otherwise be payable by Shire plc to its ordinary shareholders will be reduced by an amount equal to the amount paid to its ordinary shareholders by the Trustee.
ii If the dividend paid on the income access share and on-paid by the Trustee to ordinary shareholders is less than the total amount of the dividend announced or declared by Shire plc on its Ordinary Shares, Shire plc will be obliged to pay a dividend on the relevant Ordinary Shares equivalent to the amount of the shortfall.
In such a case, any dividend paid on the Ordinary Shares will generally be subject to Irish withholding tax at the rate of 20% or such lower rate as may be applicable under exemptions from withholding tax contained in Irish law.
iii An ordinary shareholder is entitled to make an income access share election such that she he will receive his her dividends which would otherwise be payable by Shire plc under these arrangements from Old Shire.
iv An ordinary shareholder who holds 25,000 or fewer Ordinary Shares at the first record date after she he first becomes an ordinary shareholder, and who does not make a contrary election, will be deemed to have made an election pursuant to the Shire plc articles of association such that she he will receive his her dividends under these arrangements from Old Shire.
The ADS Depositary has made an election on behalf of all holders of ADSs such that they will receive dividends from Old Shire under the income access share arrangements.
Dividends paid by Old Shire under the income access share arrangements will not, under current legislation, be subject to any UK or Irish withholding taxes.
If a holder of ADSs does not wish to receive dividends from Old Shire under the income access share arrangements, she he must withdraw his her Ordinary Shares from the ADS program prior to the dividend record date set by the Depositary and request delivery of the Shire plc Ordinary Shares.
This will enable him her to receive dividends from Shire plc if necessary, by making an election to that effect.
It is the expectation, although there can be no certainty, that Old Shire will distribute dividends on the income access share to the Trustee for the benefit of all ordinary shareholders who make or are deemed to make an income access share election in an amount equal to what would have been such ordinary shareholders entitlement to dividends from Shire plc in the absence of the income access share election.
If any dividend paid on the income access share and or paid to the ordinary shareholders is less than such ordinary shareholders entitlement to dividends from Shire plc in the absence of the income access share election, the dividend on the income access share will be allocated pro rata among the ordinary shareholders and Shire plc will pay the balance to these ordinary shareholders by way of dividend.
In such circumstances, there will be no grossing up by Shire plc in respect of, and Old Shire and Shire plc will not compensate those ordinary shareholders for, any adverse consequences including any Irish withholding tax consequences.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 22.
Shareholders equity continued Shire will be able to suspend or terminate these arrangements at any time, in which case the full Shire plc dividend will be paid directly by Shire plc to those ordinary shareholders including the Depositary who have made or are deemed to have made an income access share election.
In the year ended December 31, 2012 Old Shire paid dividends totaling $81.5 million 2011: $67.6 million: 2010: $58.3 million on the income access share to the Trustee in an amount equal to the dividend Shire ordinary shareholders would have received from Shire.
Earnings per share The following table reconciles net income and the weighted average Ordinary Shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share for the periods presented: 2012 2011 2010 $M $M $M Numerator for basic earnings per share 745.4 865.0 588.0 Interest on convertible bonds, net of tax 31.3 33.6 33.5 Numerator for diluted earnings per share 776.7 898.6 621.5 Weighted average number of shares: Millions Millions Millions 1 Basic 555.4 551.1 546.2 Effect of dilutive shares: 2 Share based awards to employees 4.6 10.9 10.9 3 Convertible bonds 2.75% due 2014 33.5 33.4 33.2 Diluted 593.5 595.4 590.3 1 Excludes shares purchased by the EBT and under the share buy-back program and presented by Shire as treasury stock.
2 Calculated using the treasury stock method.
3 Calculated using the if-converted method.
Year to December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Earnings per Ordinary Share basic Earnings per Ordinary Share attributable to Shire plc shareholders basic 134.2 156.9 107.7 Earnings per Ordinary Share diluted Earnings per Ordinary Share attributable to Shire plc shareholders diluted 130.9 150.9 105.3 The share equivalents not included in the calculation of the diluted weighted average number of shares are shown below: 2012 2011 2010 Number Number Number of shares of shares of shares Year to December 31, Millions Millions Millions 1 Share based awards to employees 6.7 2.9 5.4 1 Certain stock options have been excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS because a their exercise prices exceeded Shire plcs average share price during the calculation period or b the required performance conditions were not satisfied as at the balance sheet date.
112 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 24.
Segmental Reporting Shires internal financial reporting is in line with its business unit and management reporting structure.
The Company has three business units and three reportable segments: SP, HGT and RM.
The SP, HGT and RM reportable segments represent the Companys revenues and costs for currently promoted and sold products, together with the costs of developing products for future commercialization.
All Other has been included in the table below in order to reconcile the three segments to the total consolidated gures.
The Company evaluates performance based on revenue and operating income.
The Company does not have inter-segment transactions.
Assets that are directly attributable or allocable to the segments have been separately disclosed.
SP HGT RM All Other Total 2012 $M $M $M $M $M Product sales 2,834.9 1,418.0 153.8 4,406.7 Royalties 148.8 92.8 241.6 Other revenues 31.7 1.2 32.9 Total revenues 3,015.4 1,419.2 153.8 92.8 4,681.2 1 Cost of product sales 345.4 240.4 59.6 645.4 1 Research and development 617.4 329.1 19.0 965.5 1 Selling, general and administrative 1,354.1 384.4 161.8 213.7 2,114.0 Gain on sale of product rights 18.1 18.1 Integration and acquisition costs 12.1 0.5 12.6 25.2 Total operating expenses 2,310.9 954.4 253.0 213.7 3,732.0 Operating income loss 704.5 464.8 99.2 120.9 949.2 Total assets 2,370.8 1,941.6 945.8 2,059.0 7,317.2 2 Long-lived assets 138.8 698.2 36.2 83.9 957.2 2 Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 64.5 42.1 9.7 29.5 146.2 1 Depreciation from manufacturing plants $31.5 million and amortization of favorable manufacturing contracts $0.7 million is included in Cost of product sales: depreciation of research and development assets $22.5 million and impairment of IPR&D intangible assets in the SP reporting segment $71.2 million is included in Research and development: and all other depreciation, amortization and impairment of $380.6 million is included in Selling, general and administrative.
2 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred contingent consideration assets, deferred tax assets, investments, income tax receivable and financial instruments.
SP HGT RM All Other Total 2011 $M $M $M $M $M Product sales 2,615.6 1,229.3 105.3 3,950.2 Royalties 199.6 83.9 283.5 Other revenues 24.5 1.2 4.0 29.7 Total revenues 2,839.7 1,230.5 105.3 87.9 4,263.4 1 Cost of product sales 351.7 200.0 36.4 588.1 1 Research and development 449.1 315.4 6.2 770.7 1 Selling, general and administrative 1,131.3 340.6 64.4 215.1 1,751.4 Loss on sale of product rights 6.0 6.0 Reorganization costs 11.8 12.5 24.3 Integration and acquisition costs 0.1 13.6 13.7 Total operating expenses 1,950.0 856.0 120.6 227.6 3,154.2 Operating income loss 889.7 374.5 15.3 139.7 1,109.2 Total assets 2,421.7 1,849.4 967.7 1,141.4 6,380.2 2 Long-lived assets 126.8 720.8 22.9 63.2 933.7 2 Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 54.4 129.4 1.5 18.9 204.2 1 Depreciation from manufacturing plants $39.8 million and amortization of favorable manufacturing contracts $1.7 million is included in Cost of product sales: depreciation of research and development assets $25.2 million and impairment of IPR&D intangible assets in the SP reporting segment $16.0 million is included in Research and development: and all other depreciation, amortization and impairment $228.1 million is included in Selling, general and administrative.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 24.
Segmental Reporting continued SP HGT RM All Other Total 2010 $M $M $M $M $M Product sales 2,219.2 909.0 3,128.2 Royalties 173.3 154.8 328.1 Other revenues 7.1 2.6 5.1 14.8 Total revenues 2,399.6 911.6 159.9 3,471.1 1 Cost of product sales 332.1 129.3 2.0 463.4 1 Research and development 348.9 312.2 0.4 661.5 1 Selling, general and administrative 1,035.8 297.7 192.8 1,526.3 Gain on sale of product rights 16.5 16.5 Reorganization costs 13.0 21.3 34.3 Integration and acquisition costs 8.0 8.0 Total operating expenses 1,721.3 739.2 216.5 2,677.0 Operating income loss 678.3 172.4 56.6 794.1 Total assets 2,483.5 1,786.9 1,117.2 5,387.6 2 Long-lived assets 154.7 655.4 47.3 857.4 2 Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 21.8 281.1 12.9 315.8 1 Depreciation from manufacturing plants $38.1 million and amortization of favorable manufacturing contracts $1.7 million is included in Cost of product sales: depreciation of research and development assets $19.0 million is included in Research and development: and all other depreciation and amortization $238.3 million is included in Selling, general and administrative.
2 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred contingent consideration assets, deferred tax assets, investments, income tax receivable and financial instruments.
Geographic information Revenues based on the geographic location from which the sale originated : 2012 2011 2010 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Ireland 20.6 21.1 21.1 United Kingdom 207.0 219.9 203.9 North America 3,159.9 2,867.1 2,333.1 Rest of World 1,293.7 1,155.3 913.0 Total revenues 4,681.2 4,263.4 3,471.1 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred contingent consideration assets, deferred tax assets, investments and financial instruments based on the geographic location within which the economic benets arise: 2012 2011 Year to December 31, $M $M Ireland 5.2 2.9 United Kingdom 72.2 73.7 North America 861.0 841.0 Rest of World 18.8 16.1 Total 957.2 933.7 114 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 24.
Segmental Reporting continued Material customers In the periods set out below, certain customers, all within the SP operating segment, accounted for greater than 10% of the Companys product revenues: 2012 2011 2010 2012 % product 2011 % product 2010 % product Year to December 31, $M revenue $M revenue $M revenue Cardinal Health Inc. 1,035.7 24 923.9 23 791.2 25 McKesson Corp. 835.9 19 742.9 19 574.3 19 Amounts outstanding as at December 31, in respect of these material customers were as follows: 2012 2011 December 31, $M $M Cardinal Health Inc. 166.1 172.1 McKesson Corp. 127.4 101.4 Revenue by product In the periods set out below, revenues by major product were as follows: 2012 2011 2010 $M $M $M Specialty Pharmaceuticals VYVANSE 1,029.8 805.0 634.2 ADDERALL XR 429.0 532.8 360.8 INTUNIV 287.8 223.0 165.9 EQUASYM 29.2 19.9 22.0 DAYTRANA 49.4 LIALDA MEZAVANT 399.9 372.1 293.4 PENTASA 265.8 251.4 235.9 RESOLOR 11.8 6.1 0.3 FOSRENOL 172.0 166.9 182.1 XAGRID 97.2 90.6 87.3 Other 112.4 147.8 187.9 2,834.9 2,615.6 2,219.2 Human Genetic Therapies REPLAGAL 497.5 475.2 351.3 ELAPRASE 497.6 464.9 403.6 VPRIV 306.6 256.2 143.0 FIRAZYR 116.3 33.0 11.1 1,418.0 1,229.3 909.0 Regenerative Medicine DERMAGRAFT 153.8 105.3 153.8 105.3 4,406.7 3,950.2 3,128.2 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 25.
Other income expense, net 2012 2011 2010 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Gain on sale of non-current investments 23.5 11.1 Other 2.7 5.4 3.2 2.7 18.1 7.9 In the year to December 31, 2011 the Company disposed of 1.8 million shares in Vertex representing substantially the Companys entire holding in Vertex for cash consideration of $94.7 million, realizing a gain of $23.5 million which has been included in Other income, net in 2011.
The Company obtained its holding in Vertex on disposal of its investment in Virochem Pharma Inc. as a result of which the Company recorded a gain on disposal of $11.1 million in 2010.
Retirement benets The Company makes contributions to dened contribution retirement plans that together cover substantially all employees.
The level of the Companys contribution is xed at a set percentage of employees pay.
Company contributions to personal dened contribution pension plans totaled $46.4 million, $44.4 million and $31.8 million for the years to December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and were charged to operations as they became payable.
Taxation The components of pre tax income from continuing operations are as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Republic of Ireland 74.7 65.9 170.0 UK 30.7 45.3 35.4 US 587.4 747.6 745.5 Other jurisdictions 368.0 363.1 158.4 911.4 1,090.1 769.3 The provision for income taxes by location of the taxing jurisdiction for the years to December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 consisted of the following: 2012 2011 2010 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Current income taxes: Republic of Ireland 1.8 US federal tax 186.5 193.1 176.4 US state and local taxes 11.0 9.0 6.6 Other 29.0 40.0 25.9 Total current taxes 226.5 240.3 208.9 Deferred taxes: US federal tax 53.0 22.5 6.0 US state and local taxes 9.5 4.6 9.8 UK corporation tax 13.0 1.0 0.1 Other 10.0 29.6 10.3 Total deferred taxes 59.5 12.7 26.2 Total income taxes 167.0 227.6 182.7 116 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 27.
Taxation continued The reconciliation of income from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests and equity in earnings losses of equity method investees at the statutory tax rate to the provision for income taxes is shown in the table below: 2012 2011 2010 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of equity method investees 911.4 1090.1 769.3 1 Statutory tax rate 25.0% 25.0% 25.0% Adjustments to derive effective rate: Non-deductible items: US R&D credit 2.8% 4.7% 5.7% Effect of the convertible bond 0.9% 0.8% 1.8% 2 Intra-group items 17.7% 7.7% 12.0% Recognition of foreign tax credits 7.3% Other permanent items 0.6% 0.4% 0.8% Other items: Change in valuation allowance 3.8% 2.1% 5.1% Impact of RESOLOR impairment 5.4% 3 Difference in taxation rates 7.3% 4.5% 11.0% Change in provisions for uncertain tax positions 1.2% 1.3% 2.2% Prior year adjustment 0.9% 0.8% 4.2% Change in tax rates 0.8% 1.4% Other 0.2% 0.4% 0.2% Provision for income taxes on continuing operations 18.3% 20.9% 23.8% 1 In addition to being subject to the Irish Corporation tax rate of 25%, in 2012 the Company is also subject to income tax in other territories in which the Company operates, including: Canada 15% : France 33.3% : Germany 15% : Italy 27.5% : Luxembourg 21.0% : Malta 35% : the Netherlands 25.5% : Belgium 33.99% : Spain 30% : Sweden 26.3% : Switzerland 8.5% : United Kingdom 24.5% and the US 35%.
The rates quoted represent the headline federal income tax rates in each territory, and do not include any state taxes or equivalents or surtaxes or other taxes charged in individual territories, and do not purport to represent the effective tax rate for the Company in each territory.
2 Intra-group items principally relate to the effect of intercompany dividends, capital receipts either taxable or non-taxable and other intra-territory eliminations, the pre tax effect of which has been eliminated in arriving at the Companys consolidated income from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests and equity in earnings losses of equity method investees.
3 Certain of our activities operate under a tax holiday which is effective through December 2021.
The impact of the tax holiday is to increase the effective tax rate by 0.3% during 2012 2011: decrease in the effective tax rate by 1.7%: 2010: increase in the effective tax rate by 0.2%.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 27.
Taxation continued Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Company les income tax returns in the Republic of Ireland, the UK, the US both federal and state and various other jurisdictions see footnote 1 to the table above for major jurisdictions.
With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 1999.
Tax authorities in various jurisdictions are in the process of auditing the Companys tax returns for scal periods from 1999: these tax audits cover a range of issues, including transfer pricing, potential restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses, potential taxation of overseas dividends and controlled foreign companies rules.
While tax audits remain open, the Company also considers it reasonably possible that issues may be raised by tax authorities resulting in increases to the balance of unrecognized tax benets, however, an estimate of such increase cannot be made.
The Company is required in certain tax jurisdictions to make advance deposits to tax authorities on receipt of tax assessments.
These payments have been offset against the income tax liability within the balance sheet but have not reduced the provision for unrecognized tax benets.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benets is as follows: 2012 2011 2010 $M $M $M Balance at January 1 265.5 290.8 254.0 Increases based on tax positions related to the current year 20.5 18.2 12.4 Decreases based on tax positions taken in the current year 2.5 1.7 Increases for tax positions taken in prior years 0.4 1.4 18.0 Decreases for tax positions taken in prior years 3.3 12.0 3.2 Decreases resulting from settlements with the taxing authorities 10.5 25.7 6.5 Decreases as a result of expiration of the statute of limitations 0.3 0.5 1 Foreign currency translation adjustments 6.5 4.2 17.8 2 Balance at December 31 278.8 265.5 290.8 1 Recognized within Other Comprehensive Income.
2 The full amount of which would affect the effective rate if recognized.
The Company considers it reasonably possible that certain audits currently being conducted will be concluded in the next twelve months, and as a result the total amount of unrecognized tax benets recorded at December 31, 2012 could decrease by up to approximately $200 million.
The Company believes that its reserves for uncertain tax positions are adequate to cover the resolution of these audits, and does not expect there to be a material impact, either favorable or unfavorable, on the financial results of the Company on settlement.
The Company recognizes interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax benets within income taxes.
During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company recognized $5.1 million, $4.0 million and $1.0 million in interest and penalties and the Company had a liability of $119.6 million and $114.5 million for the payment of interest and penalties accrued at December 31, 2012 and 2011 respectively.
118 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 27.
Taxation continued Deferred taxes The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities and their balance sheet classications, as at December 31, are as follows: December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 $M $M Deferred tax assets: Deferred revenue 5.5 6.0 Inventory and warranty provisions 52.5 43.3 Losses carried forward including tax credits 425.7 384.8 Provisions for sales deductions and doubtful accounts 144.9 119.5 Restructuring 0.8 0.7 Intangible assets 36.9 44.0 Share based compensation 32.7 34.8 Other 64.7 34.1 Gross deferred tax assets 763.7 667.2 Less: valuation allowance 268.6 211.8 495.1 455.4 Deferred tax liabilities: Intangible assets 702.7 691.5 Excess of book value over tax value of assets 36.8 22.2 Net deferred tax liabilities 244.4 258.3 Balance sheet classications: Deferred tax assets current 229.9 207.6 Deferred tax assets non-current 46.5 50.7 Deferred tax liabilities non-current 520.8 516.6 244.4 258.3 At December 31, 2012, the Company had a valuation allowance of $268.6 million 2011: $211.8 million to reduce its deferred tax assets to estimated realizable value.
These valuation allowances related primarily to operating loss, capital loss and tax-credit carry-forwards in Ireland 2012: $73.9 million: 2011: $68.5 million : the US 2012: $37.2 million: 2011: $33.9 million : Germany 2012: $96.9 million: 2011: $80.7 million : and other foreign tax jurisdictions 2012: $60.6 million: 2011: $28.7 million.
The net increase in valuation allowances of $56.8 million is principally due to increases of losses and other temporary differences in European jurisdictions, as the Companys management considers that there is insufficient future taxable income, taxable temporary differences and feasible tax-planning strategies to overcome cumulative losses and therefore it is more likely than not that the relevant deferred tax assets will not be realized in full.
At December 31, 2012, based upon a consideration in combination of the profit history of the relevant afliates, projections of future taxable income over the periods in which temporary differences are anticipated to reverse, any restrictions on uses of loss carry-forwards and prudent and feasible tax-planning strategies, management believes it is more likely than not that the Company will realize the benets of these deductible differences, net of the valuation allowances.
However, the amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if these factors are revised in future periods.
The approximate tax effect of NOLs, capital losses and tax credit carry-forwards as at December 31, are as follows: 2012 2011 $M $M US federal tax NOLs 26.1 45.3 US state tax NOLs 31.4 19.8 UK NOLs 20.7 24.8 Republic of Ireland NOLs 72.6 58.0 Foreign tax jurisdictions 208.8 174.7 R&D and other tax credits 66.2 62.1 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 27.
Taxation continued The approximate gross value of NOLs and capital losses at December 31, 2012 is $1,783.5 million 2011: $1,610.1 million.
The tax effected NOLs, capital losses and tax credit carry-forwards shown above have the following expiration dates: December 31, 2012 $M Within 1 to 2 years 0.8 Within 2 to 3 years 1.0 Within 3 to 4 years 0.8 Within 4 to 5 years 3.2 Within 5 to 6 years 2.4 After 6 years 117.9 indefinitely 299.7 We do not provide for deferred taxes on the excess of the financial reporting over the tax basis in our investments in foreign subsidiaries that are essentially permanent in duration.
At December 31, 2012, that excess totaled approximately $7.8 billion.
The determination of additional deferred taxes is not practicable and is not provided.
Share based compensation plans The following table shows the total share based compensation expense see below for types of share based awards included in the consolidated statements of income: 2012 2011 2010 $M $M $M Cost of product sales 6.3 8.8 7.0 Research and development 25.8 21.8 16.8 Selling, general and administrative 55.0 45.1 38.4 Total 87.1 75.7 62.2 Less tax 23.8 23.6 17.2 63.3 52.1 45.0 There were no capitalized share based compensation costs at December 31, 2012 and 2011.
At December 31, 2012 $102.3 million 2011: $114.1 million of total unrecognized compensation cost relating to non-vested awards is expected to be recognized over a period of three years.
At December 31, 2012 $74.6 million 2011: $100.0 million of total unrecognized compensation cost relating to non-vested in the money awards based on the average share price during the year is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.7 years 2011: 1.8 years.
The total fair value of in the money awards vested during the year to December 31, 2012 was $113.9 million 2011: $87.4 million.
120 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 28.
Share based compensation plans continued Share based compensation plans The Company grants stock-settled share appreciation rights SARs and performance share awards over Ordinary Shares and ADSs to Executive Directors and employees under the Shire Portfolio Share Plan Parts A and B.
In 2010 the Company amended the rules of the Shire Portfolio Share Plan effective on a prospective basis for newly granted awards the Amendment.
After the Amendment SARs and PSAs granted under the Shire Portfolio Share Plan Parts A and B to Executive Directors are exercisable subject to performance and service criteria.
The Amendments had the following principal effect on the terms and conditions of SARs and PSAs: i the contractual life of SARs has been extended from five to seven years, ii the vesting period of SARs and PSAs granted to employees below the level of Executive Vice President allows for graded vesting rather than mandatory cliff vesting, and iii awards granted to Executive Directors contain performance conditions based on growth in adjusted return on invested capital Adjusted ROIC and earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortization as dened in the Amendments Non GAAP EBITDA, rather than the previous market based condition of total shareholder return.
The Company also operates an Employee Share Purchase Plan and a Sharesave Scheme.
The following awards were outstanding as at December 31, 2012: Expiration Compensation Number period from type of awards date of issue Vesting period Portfolio Share Plan Part A SARs 17,140,161 5-7 years 3 years cliff or graded vesting, subject to market or performance criteria for Executive Directors only Sharesave Scheme Stock options 348,891 6 months after 3 or 5 years vesting Stock Purchase Plan Stock options 784,074 On vesting date 1 to 5 years Legacy Plans Stock options 263,821 7 to 10 years 3-10 years, subject to market or performance criteria Stock-settled SARs and stock options 18,536,947 Portfolio Share Plan Part B Performance 3,518,138 3 years 3 years cliff or graded vesting, share awards subject to market or performance criteria for Executive Directors only Performance share awards 3,518,138 Number of awards are stated in terms of Ordinary Share equivalents.
Stock settled SARs and stock options a Portfolio Share Plan Part A Stock-settled share appreciation rights granted under the Portfolio Share Plan Part A prior to the Amendments are exercisable subject to certain market and service criteria.
Stock-settled share appreciation rights granted under the Portfolio Share Plan Part A subsequent to the Amendments are exercisable subject to performance and service criteria.
In respect of any awards made to Executive Directors prior to the Amendments the market conditions are based on relative total shareholder return.
Vesting of awards granted to Executive Directors will depend on relative total shareholder return performance against two comparator groups.
For one third of the award, the comparator group will be the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 constituents excluding financial institutions and for two thirds of the award the comparator group will be a group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to Executive Directors will vest, the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied 1 that the underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify this.
Where median performance is achieved, 33 3% of stocksettled share appreciation rights will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting at upper quartile performance.
In respect of any award made to Executive Directors subsequent to Amendments performance criteria are based on Non GAAP EBITDA and Adjusted ROIC targets.
These performance measures provide increased alignment to the core activities and strategy of the Company.
Awards granted to employees below Executive Director level are not subject to market or performance conditions and are only subject to service conditions.
Once awards have vested, participants will have until the fifth anniversary for awards granted prior to the Amendments or seventh anniversary for awards granted subsequent to the Amendments of the date of grant to exercise their awards.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 28.
Share based compensation plans continued b Shire Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are granted with an exercise price equal to 80% and 75% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to UK and Ireland employees, respectively.
Employees may enter into three or five-year savings contracts.
c Shire Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrolment date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
Employees agree to save for a period up to 12 months.
d Legacy plans principally the Shire 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme Options granted under this scheme were subject to certain performance criteria, which were based on the Companys share price or diluted EPS growth compared to a xed growth rate.
At December 31, 2012 all stock options outstanding under this scheme had met the required conditions and were exercisable.
A summary of the status of the Companys SARs and stock options as at December 31, 2012 and of the related transactions during the period then ended is presented below: Weighted average exercise Intrinsic price Number of value Year to December 31, 2012 shares M Outstanding as at beginning of period 12.83 23,398,448 Granted 20.76 6,132,677 Exercised 20.21 9,087,112 Forfeited 16.96 1,907,066 Outstanding as at end of period 16.66 18,536,947 41.0 Exercisable as at end of period 12.91 4,755,505 28.3 Number of awards are stated in terms of Ordinary Share equivalents.
The weighted average grant date fair value of SARs and stock options granted in the year ended December 31, 2012 was 4.35.
SARs and stock options outstanding as at December 31, 2012 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted average average Weighted remaining exercise price average Exercise contractual of awards Number of exercise price prices term outstanding awards of awards Number of awards outstanding Years exercisable exercisable 230,823 3.38-7.00 1.8 5.32 230,823 5.32 4,282,514 7.01-14.00 3.7 11.67 2,433,176 10.32 14,023,610 14.01-23.00 5.0 17.14 2,091,506 16.76 18,536,947 4,755,505 Number of awards are stated in terms of Ordinary Share equivalents.
122 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 28.
Share based compensation plans continued Performance shares Portfolio Share Plan Part B Performance share awards granted to Executive Directors under the Portfolio Share Plan Part B are exercisable subject to certain market, performance and service criteria.
In respect of any award granted to Executive Directors prior to the Amendments the market conditions are based on relative total shareholder return.
Vesting will depend on relative total shareholder return performance against two comparator groups.
For one third of an award, the comparator group will be the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 constituents excluding financial institutions and for two thirds of the award the comparator group will be a group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to Executive Directors will vest, the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Company 1 is sufficient to justify this.
Where median performance is achieved, 33 3% of performance shares will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting at upper quartile performance.
In respect of any award granted to Executive Directors subsequent to the Amendments, the performance criteria are based on Non GAAP EBITDA and Adjusted ROIC targets.
A summary of the status of the Companys performance share awards as at December 31, 2012 and of the related transactions during the period then ended is presented below: Aggregate Weighted Number of intrinsic value average Performance share awards shares M remaining life Outstanding as at beginning of period 5,709,744 Granted 1,485,169 Exercised 3,136,714 Forfeited 540,061 Outstanding as at end of period 3,518,138 66.4 5.3 Exercisable as at end of period N A N A Number of awards are stated in terms of Ordinary Share equivalents.
The weighted average grant date fair value of performance share awards granted in the year to December 31, 2012 is 21.56.
Exercises of employee share based awards The total intrinsic values of share based awards exercised for the years to December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were $224.1 million, $189.3 million and $70.3 million, respectively.
The total cash received from employees as a result of employee share option exercises for the period to December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was approximately $16.2 million, $13.4 million and $11.2 million, respectively.
In connection with these exercises, the tax benefit credited to additional paid-in capital for the years to December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $40.1 million, $29.4 million and $2.9 million respectively.
The Company will settle future employee share award exercises with either newly listed common shares or with shares held in the EBT.
The number of shares to be purchased by the EBT during 2013 will be dependent on the number of employee share awards granted and exercised during the year and Shire plcs share price.
At December 31, 2012 the EBT held 3.8 million Ordinary Shares and 1.1 million ADSs.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 28.
Share based compensation plans continued Valuation methodologies The Company estimates the fair value of its share based awards using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Key input assumptions used to estimate the fair value of share based awards include the grant price of the award, the expected stock-based award term, volatility of the Companys share price, the risk-free rate and the Companys dividend yield.
The Company believes that the valuation technique and the approach utilized to develop the underlying assumptions are appropriate in estimating the fair values of Shires stock-based awards.
Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by the Company under guidance issued by the FASB on share based payment transactions.
The fair value of share awards granted was estimated using the following assumptions: Period ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 1 Risk-free interest rate 0.2-1% 0.1-2.5% 0.5-3.0% Expected dividend yield 0-0.6% 0-0.5% 0-0.6% Expected life 1-4 years 1-5 years 1-5 years Volatility 24-32% 19-33% 22-32% Forfeiture rate 5-7% 5-7% 5-7% 1 Risk-free interest rate is for UK and US grants.
The following assumptions were used to value share based awards: Q risk-free interest rate for awards granted over ADSs, the US Federal Reserve treasury constant maturities rate with a term consistent with the expected life of the award is used.
For awards granted over Ordinary Shares, the yield on UK government bonds with a term consistent with the expected life of the award is used: Q expected dividend yield measured as the average annualized dividend estimated to be paid by the Company over the expected life of the award as a percentage of the share price at the grant date: Q expected life estimated based on the contractual term of the awards and the effects of employees expected exercise and postvesting employment termination behavior: Q expected volatility measured using historical daily price changes of the Companys share price over the respective expected life of the share based awards at the date of the award: and Q the forfeiture rate is estimated using historical trends of the number of awards forfeited prior to vesting.
Principal Subsidiaries Subsidiary undertaking Jurisdiction of incorporation 3829359 Canada Inc. Canada FerroKin BioSciences, Inc. United States Jerini Holding Limited Malta Jerini Ophthalmic Holding GmbH Germany Jerini Ophthalmic, Inc. United States Jerini Trading Limited Malta JPT Peptide Technologies, Inc. United States Monmouth Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom Movetis GmbH Germany Movetis Limited United Kingdom Pharma International Insurance Limited Ireland Rybar Laboratories Limited United Kingdom SHGT Executive Services, Inc. United States Shire 2005 Investments Limited Cayman Islands Shire Acquisition, Inc. Canada Shire Acquisitions Ireland Limited Ireland Shire AG Switzerland Shire Australia Pty Limited Australia Shire Belgium BVBA Belgium Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings United Kingdom Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings Ireland Limited Jersey Shire Biopharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Biopharmaceuticals Ireland No.
2 Limited Ireland 124 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 29.
Principal Subsidiaries continued Subsidiary undertaking Jurisdiction of incorporation Shire Brandywine LLC United States Shire Canada, Inc. Canada Shire Colombia S. A. S. Colombia Shire Czech S. R. O. Czech Republic Shire Denmark ApS Denmark Shire Deutschland GmbH Germany Shire Deutschland Investments GmbH Germany Shire Development, LLC.
United States Shire Europe Finance United Kingdom Shire Europe Limited United Kingdom Shire Executive Services LLC United States Shire Farmacutica Brasil LTDA Brazil Shire Finance Limited Cayman Islands Shire Finland Oy Finland Shire France S. A. France Shire Global Finance United Kingdom Shire GmbH Germany Shire Hellas Pharmaceuticals Import Export and Marketing S. A. Greece Shire Holdings Europe B. V. Netherlands Shire Holdings Europe Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings Europe No.
2 S. a. r. l. Luxembourg Shire Holdings Ireland Ireland Shire Holdings Ireland No.
2 Limited Ireland Shire Holdings Limited Bermuda Shire Holdings Luxembourg S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Holdings UK Canada Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings UK Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings US AG United States Shire Human Genetic Therapies Canada Inc. Canada Shire Human Genetic Therapies AB Sweden Shire Human Genetic Therapies Limited United Kingdom Shire Human Genetic Therapies S. A. Argentina Shire Human Genetic Therapies Securities Corporation United States Shire Human Genetic Therapies UK Limited United Kingdom Shire Human Genetic Therapies, Inc. United States Shire Incorporated United States Shire Intellectual Property 2 SRL Barbados Shire Intellectual Property Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Intellectual Property SRL Barbados Shire International Licensing BV Netherlands Shire Investments & Finance U. K. Company United Kingdom Shire IP Services Corporation Canada Shire Italia S. p. A. Italy Shire Japan KK Japan Shire Jersey Limited Jersey Shire LLC United States Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property No.
2 S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire-Movetis NV Belgium Shire North America Group Inc. United States Shire Norway AS Norway Shire Orphan Therapies GmbH Germany Shire Orphan Therapies, Inc. United States Shire Pharmaceutical Contracts Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceutical Development, Inc. United States Shire Pharmaceutical Development Limited United Kingdom Shire plc Annual Report 2012 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 29.
Principal Subsidiaries continued Subsidiary undertaking Jurisdiction of incorporation Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Holdings Limited Malta Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Limited Malta Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Trading Ireland Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Investments 2008 Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Group United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Iberica S. L. Spain Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments British Virgin Islands Limited Virgin Islands, British Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments 2007 Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals LLC United States Shire Pharmaceuticals Mexico SA fide CV Mexico Shire Pharmaceuticals Portugal, Lda Portugal Shire Pharmaceuticals Services Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Trading Limited Company Turkey Shire Polska Sp.
z o. o. Poland Shire Properties US United States Shire Regulatory, Inc. United States Shire Regenerative Medicine, Inc. United States Shire Rus Limited Liability Company Russia Shire Supplies U. S. LLC United States Shire Sweden AB Sweden Shire UK Investments Limited United Kingdom Shire US Holdings, Inc. United States Shire US, Inc. United States Shire US Investments United Kingdom Shire US Manufacturing, Inc. United States Sparkleame Limited United Kingdom Tanaud International BV Netherlands Tanaud Ireland Inc. Ireland The Endocrine Centre Limited United Kingdom TKT Argentina S. R. L. Argentina All subsidiary undertakings of Shire plc are beneficially owned directly or indirectly as to 100% and are all consolidated in the consolidated financial statements of Shire plc.
126 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 30.
Auditor Remuneration The Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit and non-audit services, including tax advisory and compliance services, provided by the Companys Independent Registered Public Accountants, Deloitte LLP, and the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the Registered Public Accountants.
In recognition of the importance of maintaining the independence of Deloitte LLP, a process for pre-approval has been in place since July 1, 2002 and has continued through to the end of the period covered by this Annual Report.
The following table provides an analysis of the amount paid to the Companys Independent Registered Public Accountants, Deloitte LLP, all fees having been pre-approved by the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee.
2012 2011 Year to December 31, $M $M Audit of the Company 2.5 2.9 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.5 0.4 1 Total audit fee 3.0 3.3 Tax compliance services i. e. related to assistance with corporate tax returns 0.2 0.0 Tax advisory services 2 Total services relating to taxation 0.2 0.0 3 Other non-audit services 0.3 0.1 Total non-audit services 0.5 0.4 Total fees 3.5 3.4 1 Audit fees consisted of audit work only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as statutory audits.
2 Tax fees consisted principally of assistance with matters related to compliance, planning and advice in various tax jurisdictions.
3 Other non-audit services consist of work generally only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as procedures relating to regulatory lings.
Aggregate Directors remuneration The following table gives details of the aggregate remuneration paid to Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors including the value of the exercise of options, SAR Awards and vesting of PSA Awards: 2012 2011 $000 $000 Emoluments 5,595 5,787 Money purchase pension contributions 571 561 Sub-total of annual emoluments 6,166 6,348 1 Other income arising from release exercise of long term incentives Gains on exercise of share options and SAR Awards and release of PSA Awards 20,447 21,851 Gains on the release of EAIP Awards 1,515 2,368 2 Total Emoluments and other income arising from long term incentives 28,128 30,567 1 Includes the value of shares that were released under long term plans and gains realised in these years.
2 For the purpose of this table amounts denominated in Pounds sterling have been converted to US dollar amounts at the average exchange rate for the year ended December 31, 2012 of 1:$1.5869 and for 2011 of 1:$1.6038.
