Other financial information Shareholder information E-communications Dividends Shire offers shareholders the ability to access shareholder Shareholders are able to choose how they receive their dividends: documents, such as its annual reports and notices of AGMs, Q directly into their bank account : or by way of e-communications as an alternative to receiving paper copies through the post.
To register for e-communications, simply log onto www.
co. uk myportfolio and follow the online instructions.
To start, you The quickest and most efficient way to receive your dividends is to will require your shareholder reference number which you will nd have them paid directly into your bank account.
Those selecting on your share certicate or dividend tax voucher.
Following this payment method receive a tax voucher with each payment.
registration, you will need to alter your mailing preference to To change how you receive your dividends, either log on to e-communications and confirm your email address.
co. uk myportfolio or contact Equiniti.
Shareholders who do not elect to receive documents or Income Access Share IAS Arrangements notications via e-communications will continue to receive Shareholders who elect, or are deemed to have elected, to receive paper copies.
their dividends via the IAS arrangements will receive their dividends Shareholder Security from a UK source rather than directly from the Company which is Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have an Irish tax resident company for UK tax purposes.
received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning Shareholders who hold 25,000 or fewer shares at the first dividend investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based record date after becoming a shareholder in the Company will be brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what deemed to have elected to receive their dividends under the IAS often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK arrangements, unless they elect otherwise.
Shareholders who hold more than 25,000 shares and who wish to Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, receive their dividends from a UK source must make an IAS offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company Election.
All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Unless shareholders have made an IAS Election, or are deemed to Q make sure you get the name of the person and organization: have made an IAS Election, dividends will be received from an Irish Q check that they are properly authorized by the FSA before source and will be taxed accordingly.
getting involved by visiting www.
uk register : and An IAS dividend election form can be found on Shires website at: Q Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 http: www.
com shireplc en investors  or by completing an online form at: shareholderforms www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts form.
shtml ShareGift If you deal with an unauthorized rm, you will not be eligible to Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation which makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider Scheme.
donating them to the charity ShareGift registered charity no.
Donated shares are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses the proceeds being passed on to a wide range of charities.
Find will be included in Company mailings.
out more about ShareGift: More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found Website: www.
org on the FSA website: Email: help@sharegift.
uk consumerinformation scamsandswindles Tel: 44 0 20 7930 3737 This warning has been issued by the Financial Services Authority and endorsed by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Financial Calendar Second interim dividend payment April 2013 Annual General Meeting April 2013 First quarter results announcement May 2013 Second quarter results announcement July 2013 First interim dividend payment October 2013 Third quarter results announcement October 2013 Annual results announcement February 2014 Second interim dividend payment April 2014 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 133 Shareholder information Registered Ofce American Depositary Shares 22 Grenville Street The Companys American Depositary Shares ADSs, each St Helier representing three Ordinary Shares, are listed on the NASDAQ JE4 8PX Global Select Market under the symbol SHPG.
The Company les Jersey reports and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC that are available for inspection and copying at Registered in Jersey No.
99854 the SECs public reference facilities or can be obtained by writing to the Company Secretary.
Group Headquarters 5 Riverwalk Citi Bank, N. A. is the depository for Shire ADSs.
All enquiries Citywest Business Campus concerning ADS records, certicates or the transfer of Ordinary Dublin 24 Shares into ADSs should be addressed to: Republic of Ireland Citibank Shareholder Services UK P. O.
Box 43077 Unity Place Providence, Rhode Island Hampshire International Business Park 02940-3077 Chineham USA Basingstoke Hampshire General Enquiries: RG24 8EP Toll free in US: United Kingdom 1-877-Citi-ADR 248-4237 Website From outside the US: www.
com 1-781-575-4555 Investor Relations E-mail: citibank@shareholders-online.
com Eric Rojas Tel: 1 781 482 0999 Email: erojas@shire.
com Registrars All administrative enquiries relating to shareholders should be addressed to Equiniti, clearly stating the registered shareholders name and address.
Equiniti Shire Shareholder Services Equiniti Jersey Limited c o Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing BN99 6DA Shareholder Helpline From overseas: Tel: 44 0 121 415 7593 In the UK: Tel: 0871 384 2553 Calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines open 8:30am to 5:30pm, Monday to Friday 134 Shire plc Annual Report 2012
