Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts COMPANY INFORMATION PRESIDENT REGISTERED OFFICE COMPANY WEBSITE % ] www.
com Langsett Road SECRETARY LISTING DETAILS 94, #] Richard Monro FCIS Market UK Listed United Kingdom Reference SHI.
"L REGISTERED NUMBER {-.. 6,542-- Sector Support Services Registered in England ""{-.. 6,5426| ||2.6 %{0 CORPORATE OFFICE Signet House."
"United Kingdom {-.. 6,542-- ""{-.. 6,5426| REGISTRARS AND TRANSFER OFFICE PRINCIPAL BANKERS JOINT STOCKBROKERS COMPUTERSHARE INVESTOR SERVICES PLC THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC ORIEL SECURITIES LIMITED The Pavilions Corporate Banking 150 Cheapside Bridgwater Road 3rd Floor #%, 4%."
2%, ] PANMURE GORDON UK LIMITED Leeds LS1 4HR & AUDITOR BARCLAYS BANK PLC London.
|- EC4M 9AF DELOITTE LLP 1 Park Row 1 City Square ##.
FINANCIAL PUBLIC RELATIONS Leeds LS1 2AL LLOYDS TSB BANK PLC FTI CONSULTING LIMITED 2nd Floor, Lisbon House SOLICITORS.. 4] Holborn Gate, 4 Leeds LS1 4LT PINSENT MASONS #],.
HSBC BANK PLC 1 Park Row Unit 4, Europa Court Leeds LS1 5AB 9 9|.
% SHAREHOLDERS ENQUIRIES FINANCIAL CALENDAR & %{& Annual General Meeting { www.
com investor and click To be held on 23 May 2013 on Contact Us, from where you can email 24 hour helpline Interim Results 2013 Computershare.
0870 707 1293 Announcement 15 August 2013 {Computershare, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Full Year Results 2013 Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ, United Kingdom.
44 870 707 1148 Announcement March 2014 Text phone Annual Report and Accounts 2013 0870 702 0005 Posted to Shareholders April 2014 7 &-02-.
SHAREHOLDER ANALYSIS AT 31 DECEMBER 2012 Number of Shareholders Number of ordinary shares 0 999 919 2,0.
"52-, -5 |0 5 Total 2,801 100.00 590,837,435 100.00 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 STATUTORY INFORMATION PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND BUSINESS REVIEW POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialist products to the, "", -."
2: construction and related markets in the UK, Ireland and Mainland Europe.
!y9#9 The main products supplied are Insulation and Energy Management, Exteriors !
0 : y&42 acquisitions made after the balance sheet date was 4.0m, and net assets &09 acquired were c. 0.2m.
"risk management objectives, policies and key performance indicators of the y&&2 0 DIRECTORS As at the date of this report, there have been no important events affecting the business of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, which have occurred &9&{ 90 0#0] $% Details of the Groups policies in relation to employees including disabled 000 %1, "", -."
23 employees and information on charitable and political donations are yy656 0 Mr. S. R. Mitchell Chief Executive appointed 1 March 2013 previously Chief Executive Designate, Details of the Groups policies in relation to corporate governance are appointed 10 December 2012 disclosed on pages 54 to 59.
Mr. D. G. Robertson Group Finance Director CAUTIONARY STATEMENT Ms. J. E. Ashdown Independent Non-Executive Director The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the members Mr. M. Ewell Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company, as a body, and no-one else.
The Company, its Directors, Mr. C. V. Geoghegan Senior Independent Non-Executive Director employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may Mr. J. C. Nicholls Independent Non-Executive Director come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disdained.
The Annual 9 Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the 60 9:0 60 these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ from those anticipated.
The There is no maximum number of Directors but there shall at no time be &$ & less than two.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board shall hold no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this 9: y90 for re-appointment by the Shareholders.
The Board may from time to time 9 GROUP RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Executive function within the Company for such term, remuneration and other conditions of appointment as they may determine and may revoke The Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2012 such appointment subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts.
% 0 ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS.
|0 All Directors are subject to election at the Annual General Meeting 9,0-1, -.. {.
053 immediately following their appointment and to re-election every three years &&.
0-1, -.. {-0 53 pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association.
20-1, -.. {, 0,530 UK Corporate Governance Code, it is intended that all Directors will be 9: & subject to re-election annually.
be made on 31 May 2013 to Shareholders registered at the close of business on 3 May 2013.
"The Company may, by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Acts, remove any Director before 909 {13 & or is removed pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association or he she becomes prohibited by law from being a Director: ii he she becomes SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts bankrupt or compounds with his her creditors generally: iii he she becomes FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS of unsound mind or a patient for any purpose of any statute relating to mental 913 ::9 resigns: v he she fails to attend Board meetings for six consecutive months :9 without leave of absence from the Board and the Board resolves that his her 2624, -"" 913&."
- 0 provisions of the Companys Articles: vii he she is dismissed from Executive 913 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS resolve that it is undesirable in the interests of the Company that he she remains a Director: or ix the conduct of the Director is the subject of an Details of acquisitions and disposals during the year are covered in Notes 15 investigation and the Directors resolve that it is undesirable in the interests.
0 of the Company that he she remains a Director.
SHARE CAPITAL In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will seek election or re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary Mr Mitchell will seek election, having been appointed to the Board since shares of 10p each.
At 31 December 2012, the Company had a called up the last Annual General Meeting.
-1, -.. {5|-, |22|30 It is the view of the Board that each of the Non-Executive Directors standing During the year ended 31 December 2012, options were exercised pursuant for re-election brings considerable management experience and an independent :-|4 perspective to the Boards discussions and is considered to be independent of &0, 25 & management and free from any relationship or circumstance that could affect, 9 or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgement.
Details of outstanding options under the Groups Employee It is the view of the Board that each of the Executive Directors standing for %, 4.. 2& election or re-election brings considerable management experience to the contains details of options granted over unissued share capital.
RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES Full details of Directors remuneration, interests in the share capital of the 4, 6 9: Directors Remuneration Report.
The Articles of Association may be changed with the agreement of Shareholders.
A Shareholder whose name appears on the RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Companys Register of Members can choose whether his shares are evidenced 910093100 2... 93y%1!
30 for Directors service contracts, the Company did not have any material transactions or transactions of an unusual nature with, and did not make Subject to any restrictions below, Shareholders may attend any general loans to, related parties in the periods in which any Director is or was meeting of the Company and, on a show of hands, every Shareholder materially interested.
or his representative who is present at a general meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every Shareholder or his representative who DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE is present has one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of which AND INDEMNITIES they are the registered Shareholder.
A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided on a show of hands unless before or on the declaration of 9 the result of a vote on a show of hands, a poll is demanded by the Chairman of the Company and its subsidiaries which gives appropriate cover for any 913 legal action brought against them.
The Company has also provided an present in person and having the right to vote, or by any Shareholders or their &&9 3.
- extent permitted by the law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their of all Shareholders, or by any Shareholders or their representatives present in 90& person holding ordinary shares in which an aggregate sum has been paid up of Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
at least one tenth of the total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
No claims or qualifying indemnity provisions and no qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions have been made either during the year or by the time of approval of this Statutory Information Report.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 !
STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES CONTINUED the Company or any other place decided by the Board accompanied by a 9& 9 Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make but the amount of the dividends cannot exceed the amount recommended the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of shares: and iii is in favour by the Board.
The Board can pay interim dividends on any class of shares of not more than four transferees.
of the amounts and on the dates and for the periods they decide provided 9y% 90 9 may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the Shareholders, offer any with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
Shareholder the right to elect to receive new ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
The Board may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of Shareholders.
The Board cannot Any dividend which has not been claimed for twelve years after it became 9& due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong to the Company, gaining consent from CREST.
There are no other limitations on the holding unless the Directors decide otherwise.
of ordinary shares in the Company.
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed by the Shareholders, divide among the VARIATION OF RIGHTS Shareholders all or any part of the assets of the Company and he can value any assets and determine how the division shall be carried out as between If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of the members or different classes of members.
The liquidator can also transfer { &9 13 && 5 of the members.
No Shareholders can be compelled to accept any asset of the issued shares of the class: or which would give them a liability.
ii with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate VOTING AT GENERAL MEETINGS general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
The Company can issue new shares and attach any rights to them.
If there Any Form of Proxy sent by the Company to Shareholders in relation to any is no restriction by special rights attaching to existing shares, rights attaching general meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether in written form to new shares can take priority over the rights of existing shares, or the new 6 shares and the existing shares are deemed to be varied unless the rights holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the expressly allow it by a reduction of paid up capital or if another share of that appointment proposes to vote.
same class is issued and ranks in priority for payment of dividend or in respect No Shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend of capital or more favourable voting rights.
or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a Shareholder if he or any person with AGREEMENTS WITH EMPLOYEES AND SIGNIFICANT |2 AGREEMENTS, --41&& to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and he There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the information 9 requested within 14 days after delivery of that Notice.
The Board may also whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that occurs because of a takeover bid.
no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
The Companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a Notice control of the Company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the a change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the Company.
|2 &0 FIXED ASSETS TRANSFER OF SHARES In the opinion of the Directors, there is no material difference between 9& the book value and the current open market value of the Groups interests fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the in land and buildings.
Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Board may 9{13 139 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts CREST STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS ON THE DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement system for stocks and shares.
&9 9{ 2013 INTERIM REPORT so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and, -- electronic communications for all Notices, documents and information to be each Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a sent to Shareholders, in accordance with Shareholder preference.
This would Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information enable the Company to use website communication with Shareholders as and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
The Company has at this time not made any decision 9& as to whether to move to electronic communication as the default position.
--40 Shareholders will therefore for the time being continue to receive paper copies of all Company communications.
Current regulations do, however, GOING CONCERN permit the Company not to have to send copies of its Interim Reports to Shareholders and therefore Interim Reports will no longer be sent to After making enquiries the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time Shareholders.
The Interim Report will be published on the Companys of approving the Accounts, that there is a reasonable expectation that the website at www.
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going ACQUISITION BY THE COMPANY OF ITS OWN SHARES 90 2 :5|-, |2- Business Review.
of its own shares existed at the end of the year.
The Company has made no purchases of its own shares pursuant to this authority.
The Company AUDITOR will seek to renew this authority at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
"& SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS 6|, --4 at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as At the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012, the 90 9& The remuneration of the Auditor for the year ended 31 December 2012 is 2 fully disclosed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 91. y""{ ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Number of ordinary shares issued voting Shareholder of 10p each share capital The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting, which is to be held at Aviva plc 52,412,239 0 ]94-5."
5,4-2 0- Thursday 23 May 2013, together with explanatory notes on the resolutions Schroders plc, ||4.. 50- to be proposed and full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights, Investec Asset Management, |, , 4 5.03 is contained in a circular which will be circulated to all Shareholders at least Ameriprise Financial Inc. |52-2- 4.90 20 working days before such meeting along with this Annual Report and Blackrock Inc. 54-, 60 Accounts.
This document will also be available on the SIG plc website.
2 3.03 Shareholders are invited to the Companys AGM, at which they will have Norges Bank.
4 3.01 the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
Signed on behalf of the Board PAYMENT TO SUPPLIERS The Company is a signatory to the UK Prompt payment code, which is sponsored by the UK Department for Business Innovation and Skills, and operates and abides 9&&0 Richard Monro 31 December 2012 the Company had no trade creditors, as it does not trade Company Secretary in its own right.
The Groups average number of days outstanding for continuing 4, -.
"2 operations on a like for like constant currency basis as at 31 December 2012 &261, -.. {2530 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 """
