Financial statements | Accounting estimates and judgements 74 ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS for the 52 weeks ended 15 September 2012 In applying the accounting policies detailed on pages 69 to 73, Biological assets Cane roots valuation requires an estimation by management management has made estimates in a number of areas and the actual outcome may differ from those calculated.
Key sources of of the average number of ratoons expected from the crop.
The carrying value of cane roots is disclosed in note 10. estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date with a significant risk of material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and Growing cane valuation estimated sucrose content requires liabilities within the next financial yearare set out below.
management to assess expected cane and sucrose yields for the Forecasts and discount rates following season considering weather conditions and harvesting programmes: estimated sucrose price requires management to The carrying values of a number of items on the balance sheet are dependent on estimates of future cash flows arising from the assess into which markets the forthcoming crop will be sold and assess domestic and export prices as well as related foreign groups operations which, in some circumstances, are discounted to arrive at a net present value.
The carrying value of growing cane is disclosed in note 10.
Assessment for impairment involves comparing the book value Cash ow hedge accounting of an asset with its recoverable amount being the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Value in use is determined In order to achieve and maintain cash flow hedge accounting, the group has to determine, at inception and on an ongoing basis, with reference to projected future cash flows discounted at an appropriate rate.
Both the cash flows and the discount rate involve whether a forecast transaction is highly probable and whether the hedge is effective.
This requires both subjective and objective a significant degree of .
The realisation of deferred tax assets is dependent on the generation Exceptional items of sufficient future taxable profits.
The group recognises deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that they will be recovered, The directors consider that items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature and amount should be disclosed based on an assessment of the likelihood of there being sufficient taxable profits in the future.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the separately if the financial statements are to present fairly the financial position and financial performance of the group.
The directors label extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will berealised.
these items collectively as exceptional items.
Determining which transactions are to be considered exceptional in nature is often a Post-retirement benets subjective matter.
However, circumstances that the directors believe The groups defined benefit pension schemes and similar would give rise to exceptional items for separate disclosure might arrangements are assessed annually in accordance with IAS19.
The include major business restructurings, impairments and reversals accounting valuation, which has been assessed using assumptions of impairments.
determined with independent actuarial advice, resulted in a net liability of 95m being recognised as at 15September 2012.
All exceptional items are included in the appropriate income The size of this net liability is sensitive to the market value of statement line item to which they relate.
In addition, separate the assets held by the schemes, to the discount rate used in disclosure is made of all exceptional items, with additional assessing actuarial liabilities, to the actuarial assumptions which explanation in the notes.
include price inflation, rates of pension and salary increases, Taxation mortality and other demographic assumptions and to the level The level of current and deferred tax recognised is dependent of contributions.
Further details are included in note12.
on subjective judgements as to the outcome of decisions by tax Provisions authorities in various jurisdictions around the world.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the Fair values on acquisition expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet Items of property, plant and equipment often have long operating date, taking into account a range of possible outcomes.
lives, hence determination of fair values can require a significant Property, plant and equipment residual values and degree of judgement.
Acquisitions often result in significant intangible useful lives benefits for the group, some of which qualify for recognition as Management reviews residual values annually considering market intangible assets.
Other such benefits do not meet the recognition conditions and projected disposal values.
In assessing useful lives, requirements of accounting standards and therefore form part of maintenance programmes and technological innovations are goodwill.
Significant judgement is required in the assessment and considered.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment valuation of these intangible assets, often with reference to internal is disclosed in note 9. data and models.
Professional valuers are engaged where it is deemed appropriate to do so.
Fair values on major acquisitions are disclosed in note 21.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012
