Financial statements | significant accounting policies 69 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the 52 weeks ended 15 September 2012 Associated British Foods plc the Company is a company in the Operating review on pages 16 to 29.
The financial position of domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities statements of the Company for the 52 weeks ended 15 September are described in the Financial review on pages 30 and 31.
In addition, 2012 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together the principal risks and uncertainties on pages 48 to 51 and note 24 referred to as the group and the groups interest in associates and on pages 96 to 107 provide details of the groups policy on managing joint ventures.
its financial and commodity risks.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors The group has considerable financial resources, good access to debt on 6 November 2012. markets, a diverse range of businesses and a wide geographic spread.
It is therefore well placed to manage business risks successfully The consolidated financial statements have been prepared despite the current economic uncertainty.
and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Basis of consolidation AdoptedIFRS.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of the Company and all of its subsidiaries from the date that control The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial commences to the date that control ceases.
The consolidated statements under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
financial statements also include the groups share of the after-tax These are presented on pages 111 to 115. results of its joint ventures and associates on an equity-accounted Basis of preparation basis from the point at which joint control or significant influence The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, respectively commences, to the date that it ceases.
rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists cost basis except that biological assets and certain financial when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern instruments are stated at fair value.
Assets classified as held for sale the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs benefits from its activities.
Changes in the groups ownership interest in a subsidiary that do The preparation of financial statements under Adopted IFRS requires not result in a loss of control are accounted for within equity.
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the group and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
The estimates has joint control, typically established by contractual agreement.
and associated assumptions are based on experience.
Actual results Associates are those entities in which the group has significant may differ from these estimates.
Judgements made by management influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
in the application of Adopted IFRS that have a significant effect on the financial statements, and estimates with a significant risk Business combinations of material adjustment next year, are discussed in accounting On the acquisition of a business or an interest in a joint venture estimates and judgements detailed on page 74. or associate, fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, reflecting conditions The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a regular at the date of acquisition.
Adjustments to fair values include those basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised from the made to bring accounting policies into line with those of the group.
period in which the estimates arerevised.
Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the business The accounting policies set out below have been applied to all combination date and are adjusted by restatement of the comparative periods presented, except where detailed otherwise.
period in which the acquisition occurred.
Non-controlling interests are measured at the proportionate share of the net identifiable Details of new accounting standards which came into force in assets acquired.
the year are set out at the end of this note.
None of them required restatement of primary statements in comparative periods, nor had For business combinations executed before 3 September 2004, any significant impact on the groups consolidated results or goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, represented financialposition.
by the net book value recorded under previous GAAP.
The consolidated financial statements of the group are prepared to For business combinations executed in periods ending on or before the Saturday nearest to 15 September.
Accordingly, these financial 12 September 2009, goodwill arising on a business combination statements have been prepared for the 52weeks ended was the excess of the carrying amount of any existing equity interest 15September 2012.
To avoid delay in the preparation of the plus the fair value of consideration payable for the additional stake consolidated financial statements, the results of certain subsidiaries, over the fair value of the share of net identifiable assets and liabilities joint ventures and associates are included up to 31August 2012.
The acquired including separately identified intangible assets, net of results of Illovo are included for the period to 30September 2012 in non-controlling interests.
Total consideration included acquisition line with Illovos local reporting date.
Adjustments are made as costs.
Contingent consideration was measured at fair value at appropriate for significant transactions or events occurring between the date of the business combination.
contingent consideration other than settlements are accounted for as adjustments to goodwill.
The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements | significant accounting policies 70 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED for the 52 weeks ended 15 September 2012 For business combinations executed on or after 13 September Adjusted earnings per share is shown in the notes and is stated 2009, existing equity interests in the acquiree are remeasured to fair before amortisation of non-operating intangibles, profits less losses value as at the date of the business combination, with any resulting on disposal of non-current assets, profits less losses on sale and gain or loss taken to the income statement.
closure of businesses and exceptional items.
Goodwill arising on a business combination is the excess of the Foreign currencies remeasured carrying amount of any existing equity interest plus In individual companies, transactions in foreign currencies are the fair value of consideration payable for the additional stake over recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
the fair value of the share of net identifiable assets and liabilities Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated acquired including separately identified intangible assets, net at the rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting of non-controlling interests.
Total consideration does not include differences are taken to the income statement.
acquisition costs, which are expensed as incurred.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign operations that Contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the date are denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling of the business combination, classified as a liability or equity at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Income and usually as a liability, and subsequently accounted for in line with expense items are translated into sterling at weighted average that classification.
Changes in contingent consideration classified rates of exchange.
as a liability resulting other than from the finalisation of provisional Differences arising from the retranslation of opening net assets fair values are accounted for in the income statement.
of group companies, together with differences arising from the Revenue restatement of the net results of group companies from average Revenue represents the invoiced value of sales made to customers rates to rates at the balance sheet date, are taken to the translation after deduction of discounts and sales taxes.
Discounts include sales reserve in equity.
rebates, price discounts, customer incentives, certain promotional Pensions and other post-employment benets activities and similar items.
Revenue does not include sales between The groups principal pension funds are defined benefit plans.
Revenue is recognised when the risks and In addition the group has defined contribution plans and other rewards of the underlying products have been substantially unfunded post-employment liabilities.
For defined benefit plans, transferred to the customer and when it can be reliably measured.
the amount charged in the income statement is the cost of benefits Revenue from sale of goods is generally recognised on dispatch or accruing to employees over the year, plus any benefit improvements delivery to customers, dependent on shipping terms.
Discounts are granted tomembers by the group during the year.
It also includes provided for as a reduction to revenue at the time a sale is recorded, the groups expected return on pension plan assets offset by a based on managements best estimate of the amount required to charge equalto the expected interest on plan liabilities.
For each meet claims by customers.
plan, the difference between market value of assets and present value of liabilities is disclosed as an asset or liability in the Borrowing costs balancesheet.
Borrowing costs are accounted for using the effective interest method.
For qualifying items of property, plant and equipment Any related deferred tax to the extent recoverable is disclosed where the commencement date for capitalisation was on or after separately in the balance sheet.
Actuarial gains or losses are 13 September 2009, the group capitalises borrowing costs directly recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
Surpluses attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of those are recognised only to the extent that they are recoverable.
qualifying assets as part of their cost.
The group previously Movements in irrecoverable surpluses are recognised immediately expensed all borrowing costs as incurred.
Interest capitalised is as an actuarial gain or loss in other comprehensive income.
taxed under current or deferred tax as appropriate.
Contributions payable by the group in respect of defined contribution Exceptional items plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
Other unfunded Exceptional items are defined as items of income and expenditure post-employment liabilities are accounted for in the same way as which are material and unusual in nature and which are considered defined benefit pension plans.
to be of such significance that they require separate disclosure on Share-based payments the face of the income statement in accordance with IAS 1.
They The fair value of share awards at grant date is recognised as an are discussed further in the accounting estimates and judgements employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity, spread detailed on page 74. over the period during which the employees become unconditionally Adjusted profit and earnings measures entitled to the shares.
The amount recognised is adjusted to reflect Adjusted operating profit is stated before amortisation of expected and actual levels of vesting except where the failure to non-operating intangibles, profits less losses on disposal of vest is as a result of not meeting a marketcondition.
non-current assets and exceptional items.
Adjusted profit before Income tax tax is stated before amortisation of non-operating intangibles, Income tax on profit or loss for the period comprises current profits less losses on disposal of non-current assets, profits and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement less losses on sale and closure of businesses and exceptional except to the extent that it relates to items taken directly to other items.
Both are shown on the face of the income statement.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements | significant accounting policies 71 Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on taxable income The purpose of hedge accounting is to mitigate the impact on the for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted during groups income statement of changes in foreign exchange or interest the period, together with any adjustment to tax payable in respect rates and commodity prices, by matching the impact of the hedged of previous years.
risk and the hedging instrument in the income statement.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, Changes in the value of derivatives used as hedges of future cash providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts flows are recognised through other comprehensive income in of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the the hedging reserve, with any ineffective portion recognised amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary immediately within operating profit in the income statement.
differences are not provided for: initial recognition of goodwill: initial When the future cash flow results in the recognition of a recognition of assets or liabilities affecting neither accounting nor non-financial asset or liability, the gains and losses previously taxable profit other than those acquired in a business combination: recognised in the hedging reserve are included in the initial and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent measurement of that asset or liability.
Otherwise, gains and losses that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The previously recognised in the hedging reserve are recognised in the amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction.
of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument balance sheet date.
expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is the hedging instrument recognised in the hedging reserve is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which retained in the hedging reserve until the forecast transaction the asset can be utilised.
Gains or losses on hedging instruments relating to Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of an underlying exposure that no longer exists are taken to the dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay incomestatement.
Hedges of the groups net investment in foreign operations comprise borrowings in the currency of the investments netassets.
Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities, except for other non-current The group economically hedges foreign currency exposure on investments and derivatives, are measured initially atfair value, plus recognised monetary assets and liabilities but does not normally directly attributable transaction costs, and thereafter at amortised seek hedge accounting under IAS 39.
Any derivatives that the group cost.
Other non-current investments classified under other holds to hedge this exposure are classified as held for trading non-current receivables comprise available-for-sale investments within derivative assets and liabilities.
Changes in the fair value of measured at market prices where available.
Where quoted market such derivatives and the foreign exchange gains and losses arising prices in an active market are not available, and where fair value on the related monetary items are recognised within operating profit.
cannot be reliably measured, unquoted equity instruments are measured at cost less impairment.
Intangible assets other than goodwill Non-operating intangible assets are intangible assets that arise Cash and cash equivalents on business combinations and typically include technology, brands, Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank and cash balances, call customer relationships and grower agreements.
Operating intangible deposits and short-term investments with original maturities of assets are acquired in the ordinary course of business and typically three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand include computer software, land use rights and emissions are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the trading licences.
purposes of the cash flow statement.
Intangible assets other than goodwill are stated at cost less Derivatives accumulated amortisation and impairment charges.
Derivatives are used to manage the groups economic exposure to financial and commodity risks.
The principal instruments used Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line are foreign exchange and commodity contracts, futures, swaps basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the or options the hedging instrument.
The group does not use date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are derivatives for speculative purposes.
generally deemed to be no longer than: Derivatives are recognised in the balance sheet, at fair value, based Technology and brands up to 15 years on market prices or rates, or calculated using either discounted cash Customer relationships up to 5 years flow or option pricing models.
Grower agreements up to 10 years Changes in the value of derivatives are recognised in the income statement unless they qualify for hedge accounting, when recognition of any change in fair value depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements | significant accounting policies 72 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED for the 52 weeks ended 15 September 2012 Goodwill Freehold buildings 66 years Goodwill is defined under Business combinations on pages 69 Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings and70.
Certain commercial assets associated with the acquisition of sugar factories, yeast plants and mills 20 years a business are not capable of being recognised in the acquisition other operations 12 years balance sheet.
In such circumstances, goodwill is recognised, Vehicles 10 years which may include, but is not necessarily limited to, workforce Leases assets and the benefits of expected future synergies.
A lease is an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to the lessee, Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to an annual impairment review.
in return for a payment or a series of payments, the right to use a specific asset for an agreed period of time.
Research and development Research expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Development Where the group is a lessee and has substantially all the risks and expenditure is capitalised if the product or process is technically rewards of ownership of an asset, the arrangement is considered a and commercially feasible but is otherwise expensed as incurred.
Finance leases are recognised as assets of the group Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less within property, plant and equipment at the inception of the lease at accumulated amortisation and impairment charges.
the lower of fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the income Impairment statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Payments made The carrying amounts of the groups intangible assets and property, under finance leases are apportioned between capital repayments plant and equipment are reviewed at each balance sheet date to and interest expense charged to the income statement.
Other determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such leases where the group is a lessee are treated as operating leases.
indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the goodwill and intangibles without a finite life, the recoverable amount income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the is estimated at each balance sheet date.
lease, as is the benefit of lease incentives.
An impairment charge is recognised in the income statement Where the group is a lessor under an operating lease, the asset is whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating capitalised within property, plant and equipment and depreciated unit CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
over its useful economic life.
Payments received under operating Impairment charges recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to that basis over the term of the lease.
CGU and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in Biological assets the unit on a pro rata basis.
Biological assets are measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Calculation of recoverable amount Cane roots and growing cane are stated at fair value on the The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their fair value following bases: less costs to sell and their value in use.
In assessing value in use, Cane roots escalated average cost, using appropriate the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present inflation-related indices, of each year of planting adjusted for value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market remaining expected life, currently ten years in South Africa, seven assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to years in Zambia and eight yearselsewhere.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the CGU Growing cane estimated sucrose content valued at estimated to which the asset belongs.
sucrose price for the following season, less estimated costs for harvesting and transport.
Reversals of impairment An impairment charge in respect of goodwill is not subsequently When harvested, growing cane is transferred to inventory at fair reversed.
For other assets, an impairment charge is reversed if value less costs to sell.
there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the Inventories recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the new carrying Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been Cost includes raw materials, direct labour and expenses and an determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment appropriate proportion of production and other overheads, calculated charge had been recognised.
Property, plant and equipment Inventories for Primark are valued at the lower of cost and net Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less realisable value using the retail method, calculated on the basis of accumulated depreciation and impairment charges.
selling price less appropriate trading margin.
All Primark inventories Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line are finished goods.
basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment sufficient to reduce them to estimated residual value.
Estimated useful lives are generally deemed to be no longer than: Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements | significant accounting policies 73 New accounting policies The group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations with no material impact all effective from 18 September 2011 : t Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: t Revisions to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: and t IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The group is currently assessing the impact of the following revised standards and interpretations or amendments that are not yet effective.
These changes will be adopted on the effective dates noted and are not expected to have a material impact on the groups reported profit, earnings per share, net assets or disclosures all effective from 16 September 2012 unless otherwise stated : t IAS 19 Employee Benets effective 2014 financial year.
The revised standard makes changes to the measurement of employee benets and extensive changes to disclosure requirements.
Most measurement requirements will have no impact on the group: t Certain elements of Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011: and t Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements effective 2013 financial year which amend the presentation of other comprehensive income.
These changes have not yet been endorsed by the EU so will not necessarily be adopted by the effective dates noted: t Certain elements of Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 effective 2014 financial year: t Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective 2014 and 2016 financial years: t IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classication and Measurement effective 2016 financial year, which amends the classication and measurement for financial assets and liabilities: t IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective 2014 financial year: t IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective 2014 financial year: t IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities effective 2014 financial year: t IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective 2014 financial year: t Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes effective 2013 financial year: t Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation effective 2015 financial year: and t Amendments to IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting effective 2014 financial year.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012
