marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business review review and principal risks governance other information section 7 accounts and other information 139 Notes to the Group accounts continued Independent auditors report for the Company 24 Other Notes to the accounts continued Independent Auditors Report to the members of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Smith & Nephew plc Companies Act 2006 24.3 Principal subsidiary undertakings We have audited the parent company financial statements of Smith & Nephew plc In our opinion: The information provided below is given for principal trading and manufacturing subsidiary undertakings, all of which are 100% owned, in accordance with Section 410 of for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Parent Company the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly the Companies Act 2006.
A full list will be appended to Smith & Nephews next annual return to Companies House: balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Company Name Activity Country of operation and incorporation Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the United Kingdom: financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance financial statements.
Smith & Nephew Healthcare Limited Medical Devices England & Wales with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we Smith & Nephew Medical Limited Medical Devices England & Wales are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Matters on which we are required to report T. J. Smith & Nephew, Limited Medical Devices England & Wales fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Continental Europe: by exception audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Smith & Nephew GmbH Medical Devices Austria Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Smith & Nephew SA-NV Medical Devices Belgium adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Smith & Nephew A S Medical Devices Denmark or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement set out on page Smith & Nephew Oy Medical Devices Finland visited by us: or 89, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company Smith & Nephew SAS Medical Devices France financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting Smith & Nephew Orthopaedics GmbH Medical Devices Germany statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on records and returns: or Smith & Nephew GmbH Medical Devices Germany Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Smith & Nephew Orthopaedics Hellas SA Medical Devices Greece we have not received all the information and explanations we require Smith & Nephew Limited Medical Devices Ireland for our audit.
Smith & Nephew Srl Medical Devices Italy Scope of the audit of the financial statements Smith & Nephew Nederland CV Medical Devices Netherlands An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Other matter financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial Smith & Nephew A S Medical Devices Norway We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Smith & statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Smith & Nephew Sp Zoo Medical Devices Poland Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2012.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and Smith & Nephew Lda Medical Devices Portugal adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates Smith & Nephew SAU Medical Devices Spain Les Clifford Senior statutory auditor made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual Smith & Nephew AB Medical Devices Sweden London report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
Smith & Nephew Orthopaedics AG Medical Devices Switzerland 20 February 2013 If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies USA: we consider the implications for our report.
Smith & Nephew Inc. Medical Devices United States Africa, Asia, Australasia and Other America: Opinion on accounts Smith & Nephew Pty Limited Medical Devices Australia In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: Smith & Nephew Inc. Medical Devices Canada give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012: Smith & Nephew Alberta Inc. Medical Devices Canada have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Tenet Medical Engineering Inc. Medical Devices Canada Accepted Accounting Practice: and Smith & Nephew Medical Shanghai Limited Medical Devices China have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Smith & Nephew Medical Suzhou Limited Medical Devices China Act 2006.
Smith & Nephew Orthopaedics Beijing Limited Medical Devices China Smith & Nephew Limited Medical Devices Hong Kong Smith & Nephew Healthcare Private Limited Medical Devices India Smith & Nephew KK Medical Devices Japan Smith & Nephew Limited Medical Devices Korea Smith & Nephew Healthcare Sdn Berhad Medical Devices Malaysia Smith & Nephew SA fide CV Medical Devices Mexico Smith & Nephew Limited Medical Devices New Zealand Smith & Nephew Inc. Medical Devices Puerto Rico Smith & Nephew Pte Limited Medical Devices Singapore Smith & Nephew Pty Limited Medical Devices South Africa Smith & Nephew Limited Medical Devices Thailand Smith & Nephew FZE Medical Devices United Arab Emirates 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p89-164.
