144 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Group information Business overview and Group history Contractual obligations Smith & Nephews operations are organised into two primary divisions that operate globally: Advanced Surgical Devices and Advanced Wound Management.
Contractual obligations at 31 December 2012 were as follows: The Group has a history dating back over 150 years to the family enterprise of Thomas James Smith who opened a small pharmacy in Hull, UK in 1856.
Following his Payments due by period death in 1896, his nephew Horatio Nelson Smith took over the management of the business.
Less than More than By the late 1990s, Smith & Nephew had expanded into being a diverse healthcare conglomerate with operations across the globe, producing various medical devices, Total 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years personal care products and traditional and advanced wound care treatments.
In 1998, Smith & Nephew announced a major restructuring to focus management attention $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million and investment on three global business units advanced wound management, endoscopy and orthopaedics which offered high growth and margin opportunities.
Debt obligations 452 36 416 In 2011, the Endoscopy and Orthopaedics businesses were brought together to create an Advanced Surgical Devices division.
Finance lease obligations 16 2 4 4 6 Smith & Nephew was incorporated and listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1937 and in 1999 the Group was also listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
In 2001, Smith & Nephew became a constituent member of the FTSE-100 index in the UK.
This means that Smith & Nephew is included in the top 100 companies traded on the Operating lease obligations 127 45 55 23 4 London Stock Exchange measured in terms of market capitalisation.
Retirement benefit obligation 62 62 Today, Smith & Nephew is a public limited company incorporated and headquartered in the UK and carries out business around the world.
Purchase obligations Capital expenditure 8 8 Property, plant and equipment Other 18 10 8 The table below summarises the main properties which the Group uses and their approximate areas.
683 163 483 27 10 Approximate area Other contractual obligations represent $10m of foreign exchange contracts and $8m of acquisition consideration.
Provisions that do not relate to contractual obligations Square feet 000s are not included in the above table.
Group head office in London, UK 15 The agreed contributions for 2013 in respect of the Groups defined benefits plans are: $39m for the UK including $30m of supplementary payments, $17m for the US Group research facility in York, UK 84 plan and $6m for other funded defined benefit plans.
The table above does not include amounts payable in respect of 2014 and beyond as these are subject to future Advanced Surgical Devices headquarters in Andover, Massachusetts, US 144 agreement and amounts cannot be reasonably estimated.
Advanced Wound Management headquarters and manufacturing facility in Hull, UK 439 There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change in control of the Company or the Group following a takeover, such as bank loan agreements and Company share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
In addition, Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing facilities in Memphis, Tennessee, US 971 there are service contracts between the Company and its Executive Directors which provide for the automatic payment of a bonus following loss of office or employment Advanced Surgical Devices distribution facility in Memphis, Tennessee, US 210 occurring because of a successful takeover bid.
Further details are set out on page 78.
Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing facility in Aarau, Switzerland 121 The Company does not have contracts or other arrangements which individually are essential to the business.
Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing facility in Beijing, China 192 Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing and warehouse facility in Warwick, UK 90 Off-balance sheet arrangements Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing and warehouse facility in Tuttlingen, Germany 64 Management believes that the Group does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined by the SEC in item 5E of Form 20-F, that have or are reasonably Advanced Surgical Devices distribution facility and European headquarters in Baar, Switzerland 73 likely to have a current or future effect on the Groups financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors.
Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing facility in Mansfield, Massachusetts, US 98 Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing facility in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, US 155 Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing facility in Calgary, Canada 17 Related party transactions Except for transactions with associates see Note 24.2 of Notes to the Group Accounts, no other related party had material transactions or loans with Smith & Nephew Advanced Wound Management manufacturing facility in Gilberdyke, UK 51 over the last three financial years.
Advanced Wound Management manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China 283 Advanced Wound Management manufacturing facility in Fort Saskatchewan, Canada 76 Advanced Wound Management US headquarters in St. Petersburg, Florida, US 44 Healthpoint headquarters and laboratory space, Texas, US 79 The Group Global Operations strategy includes ongoing assessment of the optimal facility footprint.
The Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing facilities in Memphis, Tennessee are largely freehold, a portion of Tuttlingen and the Advanced Wound Management facilities in Hull and Gilberdyke are freehold while other principal locations are leasehold.
The Group has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in other countries throughout the world, but no other is individually significant to the Group.
Where required, the appropriate governmental authorities have approved the facilities.
indd 144 25 02 2013 11:45 marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business review review and principal risks governance other information section 7 accounts and other information 145 Group information Business overview and Group history Contractual obligations Smith & Nephews operations are organised into two primary divisions that operate globally: Advanced Surgical Devices and Advanced Wound Management.
indd 145 25 02 2013 11:45 146 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Group information continued Risk factors Political uncertainties There are known and unknown risks and uncertainties relating to Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below could cause the Groups business, The Group operates on a worldwide basis and has distribution channels, purchasing agents and buying entities in over 90 countries.
Political upheaval in some of those financial position and results of operations to differ materially and adversely from expected and historical levels.
In addition, other factors not listed here that Smith & countries or in surrounding regions may impact the Groups results of operations.
Political changes in a country could prevent the Group from receiving remittances of Nephew cannot presently identify or does not believe to be equally significant could also materially adversely affect Smith & Nephews business, financial position profit from a member of the Group located in that country or from selling its products or investments in that country.
Furthermore, changes in government policy regarding or results of operations.
import quotas, taxation or other matters could adversely affect the Groups turnover and operating profit.
War, terrorist activities or other conflict could also adversely impact the Group.
Highly competitive markets Currency fluctuations The Groups business segments compete across a diverse range of geographic and product markets.
Each market in which the business segments operate contains a number of different competitors, including specialised and international corporations.
Significant product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of price Smith & Nephews results of operations are affected by transactional exchange rate movements in that they are subject to exposures arising from revenue in a currency competition by competitors could adversely affect the Groups operating results.
different from the related costs and expenses.
The Groups manufacturing cost base is situated principally in the US, the UK, China and Switzerland, from which finished products are exported to the Groups selling operations worldwide.
Thus, the Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between the US Dollar, Sterling and Some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than Smith & Nephew.
These competitors may be able to initiate technological Swiss Franc and the currency of the Groups selling operations, particularly the Euro, Australian Dollar and Japanese Yen.
If the US Dollar, Sterling or Swiss Franc should advances in the field, deliver products on more attractive terms, more aggressively market their products or invest larger amounts of capital and research and strengthen against the Euro, Australian Dollar and the Japanese Yen, the Groups trading margin could be adversely affected.
The Group manages the impact of exchange rate movements on sales and cost of goods sold by a policy of transacting forward foreign currency commitments when There is a possibility of further consolidation of competitors, which could adversely affect the Groups ability to compete with larger companies due to insufficient financial firm purchase orders are placed.
In addition, the Groups policy is for forecast transactions to be covered between 50% and 90% for up to one year.
If any of the Groups businesses were to lose market share or achieve lower than expected sales growth, there could be a disproportionate adverse impact on the Groups share price and its strategic options.
The Group uses the US Dollar as its reporting currency and the US Dollar is the functional currency of Smith & Nephew plc.
The Groups revenues, profits and earnings are also affected by exchange rate movements on the translation of results of operations in foreign subsidiaries for financial reporting purposes.
See Financial position, Competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer liquidity and capital resources on page 50. base and this trend is expected to continue.
Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers could lead to downward pressure on prices and or a decline in market share in any of the Groups business areas, which could adversely affect Smith & Nephews results of operations and hinder its growth potential.
Manufacturing and supply The Groups manufacturing production is concentrated at 12 main facilities in Memphis, Mansfield and Oklahoma City in the US, Hull, Warwick and Gilberdyke in the UK, Aarau in Switzerland, Tuttlingen in Germany, Fort Saskatchewan and Calgary in Canada and Suzhou and Beijing in China.
If major physical disruption took place at Continual development and introduction of new products any of these sites, it could adversely affect the results of operations.
Physical loss and consequential loss insurance is carried to cover such risks but is subject to limits The medical devices industry has a rapid rate of new product introduction.
In order to remain competitive, each of the Groups business segments must continue to and deductibles and may not be sufficient to cover catastrophic loss.
Management of orthopaedic inventory is complex, particularly forecasting and production planning.
develop innovative products that satisfy customer needs and preferences or provide cost or other advantages.
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain There is a risk that failures in operational execution could lead to excess inventory or individual product shortages.
A potential product may not be brought to market or not succeed in the market for any number of reasons, including failure to work optimally, failure to receive regulatory approval, failure to be cost-competitive, infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights and changes in consumer demand.
The Groups products Each of the business segments is reliant on certain key suppliers of raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials.
These suppliers must provide and technologies are also subject to marketing attack by competitors.
Furthermore, new products that are developed and marketed by the Groups competitors may affect the materials and perform the activities to the Groups standard of quality requirements.
If any of these suppliers is unable to meet the Groups needs, compromises on price levels in the various markets in which the Groups business segments operate.
If the Groups new products do not remain competitive with those of competitors, the standards of quality or substantially increases its prices, Smith & Nephew would need to seek alternative suppliers.
There can be no assurance that alternative suppliers Groups revenue could decline.
would provide the necessary raw materials on favourable or cost-effective terms at the desired quality.
Consequently, the Group may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain raw materials, which it may not be able to pass on to its customers in the form of increased prices for its finished products.
In addition, some of the raw materials The Group maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices in excess of current carrying costs.
used may become unavailable, and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to obtain suitable and cost-effective substitutes.
Any interruption of supply Marketplace changes resulting from the introduction of new products or surgical procedures may cause some of the Groups products to become obsolete.
The Group caused by these or other factors could negatively impact Smith & Nephews revenue and operating profit.
makes estimates regarding the future recoverability of the costs of these products and records a provision for excess and obsolete inventories based on historical experience, expiration of sterilisation dates and expected future trends.
If actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less The Group uses a variety of information systems to conduct its manufacturing, supply and selling operations.
An unrecoverable fault in one of these systems could disrupt favourable than projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required.
trading in certain markets and locations.
The Group is in the process of outsourcing to third parties or relocating to lower cost countries certain of its manufacturing and other processes.
As a result of these transfers, there is a risk of disruption to supply.
Dependence on government and other funding In most established markets throughout the world, expenditure on medical devices is ultimately controlled to a large extent by governments.
Funds may be made available or withdrawn from healthcare budgets depending on government policy.
The Group is therefore largely dependent on future governments providing increased Attracting and retaining key personnel funds commensurate with the increased demand arising from demographic trends.
The Groups continued development depends on its ability to hire and retain highly-skilled personnel with particular expertise.
This is critical, particularly in general Pricing of the Groups products is largely governed in most established markets by governmental reimbursement authorities.
Initiatives sponsored by government management, research, new product development and in the sales forces.
If Smith & Nephew is unable to retain key personnel in general management, research and agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, excise taxes and competitive pricing, are ongoing in new product development or if its largest sales forces suffer disruption or upheaval, its sales and operating profit would be adversely affected.
Additionally, if the Group markets where the Group has operations.
This control may be exercised by determining prices for an individual product or for an entire procedure.
The Group is exposed is unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive workforce, it may not be able to meet its strategic business objectives.
to changes in reimbursement policy, tax policy and pricing which may have an adverse impact on sales and operating profit.
In particular, changes to the healthcare legislation in the US are due to impose significant taxes on medical device manufacturers from 2013.
There may be an increased risk of adverse changes to government funding policies arising from the deterioration in macro-economic conditions in some of the Groups markets.
Proprietary rights and patents Due to the technological nature of medical devices and the Groups emphasis on serving its customers with innovative products, the Group has been subject to patent The Group must adhere to the rules laid down by government agencies that fund or regulate healthcare, including extensive and complex rules in the US.
Failure to do so infringement claims and is subject to the potential for additional claims.
could result in fines or loss of future funding.
Claims asserted by third parties regarding infringement of their intellectual property rights, if successful, could require the Group to expend time and significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing products or obtain licences to the products which are the subject of such litigation, thereby affecting the Groups growth and World economic conditions profitability.
Smith & Nephew attempts to protect its intellectual property and regularly opposes third party patents and trademarks where appropriate in those areas that Demand for the Groups products is driven by demographic trends, including the ageing population and the incidence of osteoporosis and obesity.
Supply of, use of and might conflict with the Groups business interests.
If Smith & Nephew fails to protect and enforce its intellectual property rights successfully, its competitive position could payment for the Groups products are also influenced by world economic conditions which could place increased pressure on demand and pricing, adversely impacting suffer, which could harm its results of operations.
the Groups ability to deliver revenue and margin growth.
The conditions could favour larger, better capitalised groups, with higher market shares and margins.
As a consequence, the Groups prosperity is linked to general economic conditions and there is a risk of deterioration of the Groups performance and finances during adverse macro-economic conditions.
Product liability claims and loss of reputation The development, manufacture and sale of medical devices entail risk of product liability claims or recalls.
Design and manufacturing defects with respect to products During 2012, economic conditions worldwide continued to create several challenges for the Group, including deferrals of joint replacement procedures, heightened sold by the Group or by companies it has acquired could damage, or impair the repair of, body functions.
The Group may become subject to liability, which could be pricing pressure, significant declines in capital equipment expenditures at hospitals and increased uncertainty over the collectability of European government debt, substantial, because of actual or alleged defects in its products.
In addition, product defects could lead to the need to recall from the market existing products, which particularly those in certain parts of southern Europe.
These factors tempered the overall growth of the Groups global markets and could have an increased impact on may be costly and harmful to the Groups reputation.
There can be no assurance that customers, particularly in the US, the Groups largest geographical market, will not bring product liability or related claims that would have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations in the future, or that the Group will be able to resolve such claims within insurance limits.
indd 146 25 02 2013 11:45 marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business review review and principal risks governance other information section 7 accounts and other information 147 Group information continued Risk factors Political uncertainties There are known and unknown risks and uncertainties relating to Smith & Nephews business.
indd 147 25 02 2013 11:45 148 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Group information continued Regulatory standards and compliance in the healthcare industry Dividends Business practices in the healthcare industry are subject to regulation and review by various government authorities.
In general, the trend in many countries in which the Group does business is towards higher expectations and increased enforcement activity by governmental authorities.
While the Group is committed to doing business Dividend history with integrity and welcomes the trend to higher standards in the healthcare industry, the Group and other companies in the industry have been subject to investigations Smith & Nephew has paid dividends on its Ordinary Shares in every year since 1937.
Following the capital restructuring and dividend reduction in 2000 the Group and other enforcement activity that have incurred and may continue to incur significant expense.
See Legal proceedings on page 52.
Under certain circumstances, if the adopted a policy of increasing its dividend cover the ratio of EPSA, as set out in the Selected financial data, to ordinary dividends declared for the year.
This was Group were found to have violated the law, its ability to sell its products to certain customers could be restricted.
intended to increase the financing capability of the Group for acquisitions and other investments.
From 2000 to 2004 the dividend increased in line with inflation and, in 2004, dividend cover stood at 4.1 times.
Having achieved this level of dividend cover the Board changed its policy, from that of increasing dividends in line with inflation, to that of increasing dividends for 2005 and after by 10%.
Following the redenomination of the Companys share capital into US Dollars the Board re-affirmed its policy Regulatory approval of increasing the dividend by 10% a year in US Dollar terms.
The international medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be On 2 August 2012, the Board announced its intention to pursue a progressive dividend policy, with the aim of increasing the US Dollar value of Ordinary dividends over developed into marketable products and the amount of time and expense that should be allotted to such development.
time broadly based on the Groups underlying growth in earnings, while taking into account capital requirements and cash flows.
National regulatory authorities administer and enforce a complex series of laws and regulations that govern the design, development, approval, manufacture, labelling, From 2013, the Board will review at the time of the full year results, the appropriate level of total annual dividend each year.
The Board intends that the interim dividend will marketing and sale of healthcare products.
They also review data supporting the safety and efficacy of such products.
Of particular importance is the requirement in many be set by a formula and will be equivalent to 40% of the total dividend for the previous year.
Dividends will continue to be declared in US Dollars with an equivalent amount countries that products be authorised or registered prior to manufacture, marketing or sale and that such authorisation or registration be subsequently maintained.
The in sterling payable to those shareholders whose registered address is in the UK, or who have validly elected to receive sterling dividends.
major regulatory agencies for Smith & Nephews products include the Food and Drug Administration FDA in the US, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory An interim dividend in respect of each fiscal year is normally declared in August and paid in November.
A final dividend will be recommended by the Board of Directors Agency in the UK, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in Japan and the State Food and Drug Administration in China.
At any time, the Group is awaiting a number and paid subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
of regulatory approvals which, if not received, could adversely affect results of operations.
Future dividends of Smith & Nephew will be dependent upon: future earnings: the future financial condition of the Group: the Boards dividend policy: and the additional The trend is towards more stringent regulation and higher standards of technical appraisal.
Such controls have become increasingly demanding to comply with and factors that might affect the business of the Group set out in Special note regarding forward-looking statements and Risk Factors.
management believes that this trend will continue.
Regulatory requirements may also entail inspections for compliance with appropriate standards, including those relating to Quality Management Systems or Good Manufacturing Practices regulations.
All manufacturing and other significant facilities within the Group are subject to regular internal and external audit for compliance Dividends per share with national and Group medical device regulation and policies.
The table below sets out the dividends per Ordinary Share in the last five years.
Payment for medical devices may be governed by reimbursement tariff agencies in a number of countries.
Reimbursement rates may be set in response to perceived economic value of the devices, based on clinical and other data relating to cost, patient outcomes and comparative effectiveness.
They may also be affected by overall Years ended 31 December government budgetary considerations.
The Group believes that its emphasis on innovative products and services should contribute to success in this environment.
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could have a number of adverse consequences, including withdrawal of approval to sell a product in a country, Pence per share: temporary closure of a manufacturing facility, fines and potential damage to company reputation.
Interim 6.811 4.639 4.233 3.650 3.194 Final Second interim ii 11.656 i 7.444 6.639 6.494 6.194 Failure to make successful acquisitions Total 18.467 12.083 10.872 10.144 9.388 A key element of the Groups strategy for continued growth is to make acquisitions or alliances to complement its existing business.
Failure to identify appropriate acquisition targets or failure to conduct adequate due diligence or to integrate them successfully would have an adverse impact on the Groups competitive position US cents per share: and profitability.
This could result from the diversion of management resources towards the acquisition or integration process, challenges of integrating organisations Interim 11.000 7.333 6.667 6.067 5.511 of different geographic, cultural and ethical backgrounds, as well as the prospect of taking on unexpected or unknown liabilities.
In addition, the availability of global capital may make financing less attainable or more expensive and could result in the Group failing in its strategic aim of growth by acquisition or alliance.
Other risk factors Smith & Nephew is subject to a number of other risks, which are common to most global medical technology groups and are reviewed as part of the Groups risk ii 2008 and 2009 Second interim, 2010 to 2012 Final.
Dividends above include the associated UK tax credit of 10%, but exclude the deduction of withholding taxes.
All dividends, up to the second interim dividend for 2005, were declared in pence per Ordinary Share and translated into US cents per Ordinary Share at the Noon Buying Rate on the payment date.
Since the second interim dividend for 2005 all dividends have been declared in US cents per Ordinary Share.
The 2012 final dividend will be payable on 8 May 2013, subject to shareholder approval.
In respect of the proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 16.20 US cents per Ordinary Share, the record date will be 19 April 2013 and the payment date will be 8 May 2013.
The sterling equivalent per Ordinary Share will be set following the record date.
Shareholders may elect to receive their dividend in either sterling or US Dollars and the last day for election will be 19 April 2013.
The Ordinary Shares will trade ex-dividend on both the London and New York Stock Exchanges from 17 April 2013.
indd 148 25 02 2013 11:45 marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business review review and principal risks governance other information section 7 accounts and other information 149 Group information continued Regulatory standards and compliance in the healthcare industry Dividends Business practices in the healthcare industry are subject to regulation and review by various government authorities.
indd 149 25 02 2013 11:45 150 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Group information continued Information for shareholders Share prices Ordinary shareholders Financial calendar The table below sets out, for the periods indicated, the highest and lowest middle market quotations for the Companys Ordinary Shares as derived from the Daily Official Annual General Meeting 11 April 2013 List of the UK Listing Authority and the highest and lowest sales prices of its ADSs as reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape.
Registrar Quarter One results 2 May 2013 All general enquiries concerning shareholdings, dividends, changes to Ordinary Shares ADSs shareholders personal details and the AGM should be addressed to: Payment of 2012 final dividend 8 May 2013 High Low High Low Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Half year results announced 1 August 2013 i US$ US$ Tel: 0871 384 2081 Quarter Three results announced 31 October 2013 Year ended 31 December: Tel: 44 0 121 415 7072 from outside the UK.
co. uk Full year results announced February 2014 i Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute excluding VAT plus network extras.
2009 6.42 4.20 51.38 30.57 Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding UK public holidays.
Quarters in the year ended 31 December: 2011: Shareholder communications Shareholder facilities 1st Quarter 7.42 6.50 60.19 50.83 The Company makes quarterly financial announcements which are made Shareview available through Stock Exchange announcements and on the Groups website Equinitis online enquiry and portfolio management service for shareholders.
Copies of recent Annual Reports, press releases, To view information about your shareholdings online, register at 3rd Quarter 6.87 5.21 55.30 42.17 institutional presentations and audio webcasts are also available on the website.
Once registered for Shareview, you will also be able to 4th Quarter 6.26 5.41 48.15 42.68 register your proxy instructions online and elect to receive future shareholder The Company sends paper copies of the Notice of Annual General Meeting and communications via the Companys website www.
2012: Annual Report only to those shareholders that have elected to receive shareholder documentation by post.
ADS holders will also not receive a paper copy unless 1st Quarter 6.43 5.95 51.13 45.57 E-communications they have elected to do so.
Electronic copies of the Annual Report and Notice of We encourage shareholders to elect to receive communications via e-mail as this 2nd Quarter 6.40 5.80 51.23 45.13 Annual General Meeting are available on the Groups website at www.
smithhas significant environmental and cost benefits.
Shareholders may register for this nephew.
Both Ordinary shareholders and ADS holders can request paper 3rd Quarter 6.93 6.38 56.13 49.50 service through Equiniti, at www.
Shareholders will receive a copies of the Annual Report, which the Company provides free of charge.
The confirmation letter from Equiniti at their registered address, containing an 4th Quarter 6.92 6.38 55.77 51.01 Company will continue to send to Ordinary shareholders by post the Form of Proxy Activation Code for future use.
2013: and an accompanying letter notifying them of the availability of the Annual Report Payment of dividends direct to your bank or building society account and Notice of Annual General Meeting on the Groups website.
Shareholders 1st Quarter to 19 February 2013 7.34 6.84 58.00 54.28 Shareholders who wish to avoid the risk of their dividend payments getting lost or who elect to receive the Annual Report and Notice of Annual General Meeting Last Six Months: mislaid can arrange to have their cash dividends paid directly to a bank or building electronically are informed by e-mail of the documents availability on the Groups society account.
This facility is available to UK resident shareholders who receive website.
ADS holders receive the Form of Proxy by post but will not receive a August 2012 6.79 6.50 52.92 51.33 sterling dividends.
If you do not live in the UK you may be able to register for the paper copy of the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Further Information is available at www.
co. uk or by contacting Equiniti UK and overseas helpline October 2012 6.92 6.44 55.77 51.27 numbers as above.
Investor communications November 2012 6.62 6.38 52.77 51.01 The Company maintains regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders, Dividend re-investment plan DRIP December 2012 6.89 6.63 55.66 53.28 together with results presentations.
To ensure that all members of the Board The Company offers shareholders except those in North America the opportunity January 2013 7.34 6.84 58.00 55.53 develop an understanding of the views of major investors, the Executive Directors to participate in a DRIP.
This enables shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends review significant issues raised by investors with the Board.
Non-Executive in further Ordinary Shares of Smith & Nephew plc.
These are purchased in the February 2013 to 19 February 2013 7.28 6.94 57.43 54.28 Directors are sent copies of analysts and brokers briefings.
There is an market at competitive dealing costs.
For further details plus an application form opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Directors at the AGM and to re-invest future dividends, contact Equiniti as above.
the Company regularly responds to letters from shareholders on a range of issues.
Individual savings account ISA Shareholders who are UK resident may hold Smith & Nephew plc shares in an Individual Savings Account ISA, which is administered by the Companys UK capital gains tax registrar.
For information about this service please contact Equiniti as above.
For the purposes of UK capital gains tax the price of the Companys Ordinary Shares on 31 March 1982 was 35.04p.
Smith & Nephew share price The Companys Ordinary Shares are quoted on the LSE under the symbol SN.
The Companys share price is available on the Smith & Nephew website www.
com where it is updated at intervals throughout the day.
