SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Company Information Advisors Registered Ofce Auditors Financial Advisor SOCO International plc Deloitte LLP and Corporate Broker 48 Dover Street London, United Kingdom Bank of America Merrill Lynch London Merrill Lynch Financial Centre W1S 4FF Bankers 2 King Edward Street United Kingdom Bank of America Merrill Lynch London Merrill Lynch Financial Centre EC1A 1HQ Registered in England 2 King Edward Street United Kingdom Company No.
3300821 London EC1A 1HQ Registrar Website United Kingdom Equiniti Limited www.
com Aspect House J. P. Morgan Spencer Road Company Secretary 125 London Wall Lancing Cynthia B Cagle London BN99 6DA EC2Y 5AY United Kingdom Financial Calendar United Kingdom Group results for the year to 31 December are Solicitors announced in March April.
The Annual General Clifford Chance LLP Meeting is held during the second quarter.
10 Upper Bank Street Half year results to 30 June are announced London in August.
Additionally, the Group will issue E14 5JJ an interim management statement between United Kingdom ten weeks after the beginning and six weeks before the end of each half year period.
96 Disclaimer This document includes certain forward-looking statements regarding the SOCO Group.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or assumptions that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
These risks, uncertainties or assumptions could adversely affect the outcome and financial effects of the plans and events described herein.
Forward-looking statements contained in this document regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak as only of the date of this document.
Except as required by law, the Company is under no obligation to publicly update or keep current the forward-looking statements contained in this document or to publicly correct any inaccuracies which may become apparent in such forwardlooking statements.
Design and production Wardour, London www.
co. uk Photography South East Asia: John Hepler cover and location Africa: Jean Yves Brochec location Board and Management: Johanna Ward and Jean Yves Brochec Print CPI Colour This report is printed on Heaven 42 which is sourced from well managed forests independently certied according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council Disclaimer.
SOCO International plc 48 Dover Street London W1S 4FF United Kingdom T 44 0 20 7747 2000 F 44 0 20 7747 2001 www.
