Overview Strategy and performance Sustainability Governance Statement of compliance 75 As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority this Statement of Compliance explains how the Company applies the principles and complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 Code.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
The Group has complied with the detailed provisions of the Code throughout 2012, with the exception of provision B.
We have explained in detail our reasons on pages 49 and 76 and set out our alternative practice to achieve good governance.
The Code is not a rigid set of rules and the Code recognises that an alternative to following a provision may be justi ed in particular circumstances where good governance is still achieved.
We have addressed each Code principle in the table below.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE 2010 Code of Best Practice Principles Group Compliance Statement ADIRECTORS 1 The role of the Board Every company should be headed by The Directors responsibilities are outlined in the Corporate Governance Report an effective board, which is collectively on page 49.
The Board meets regularly on a formal basis plus additional ad hoc responsible for the long-term success of meetings as necessary.
2 Division of responsibilities There should be a clear division of Responsibility is clearly split between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
responsibilities at the head of the The Chairman is responsible for managing the business of the Board, safeguarding company between the running of the corporate governance and chairing the Board.
The Group Chief Executive has board and the executive responsibility responsibility for corporate and business strategy, managing the Groups businesses for the running of the companys and the effective stewardship of capital, technical and human resources.
No one individual should have explanation of their respective responsibilities is set out on page 50. unfettered powers of decision.
3The Chairman The chairman is responsible for The Chairman sets the Boards agenda and ensures that adequate time is leadership of the board and ensuring its available for the discussion of all agenda items.
The Chairman promotes a culture effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
He also ensures constructive relations between the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman ensures effective communication with shareholders.
A detailed explanation of the Chairmans responsibilities is set out on page 50.
4Non-Executive Directors As part of their role as members of a The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of management, monitor unitary board, non-executive directors the reporting of performance and assist in the development of strategy.
The Senior should constructively challenge and help Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact develop proposals on strategy.
through the normal channels has failed to resolve matters.
The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present where considered appropriate.
The Senior Independent Director meets with the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman being present on such occasions as he considers appropriate.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 75
