Remuneration report continued 4.3 Progress towards share ownership guideline The following chart sets out the Executive Directors progress towards the share ownership guideline of 100% of salary.
The value of the shareholding is taken at 31st December 2012 as a percentage of 2012 base salary.
Operation of the Remuneration Committee in 2012 5.1 Membership and attendance Each of the Committee members is an independent Non-Executive Director and thus brings independence to consideration of all aspects of Board remuneration and the application of professional advice to matters relating to remuneration.
The Committee is chaired by Mr Bullock, and the members comprise Dr Rajagopal, Dr Schoolenberg and Mr Watson, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
In 2012 the Committee met three times.
Dr Schoolenberg attended the one meeting held following her appointment to the Committee: the remaining members attended all three meetings.
5.2 Advisors to the Committee During 2012 the Committee sought advice and information from Mr Whiteley, the Chairman, Mr Vernon, the Group Chief Executive and Mr Richardson, the Group Human Resources Director.
None of the invitees participated in any discussions regarding their own remuneration or fees.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
In addition the Committee received external advice from Towers Watson and Herbert Smith Freehills.
Towers Watson is appointed by the Committee and provided advice on general remuneration matters and the drafting of the 2012 Remuneration Report.
Towers Watson is a signatory of the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct Herbert Smith Freehills is appointed by the Company and provided advice to the Committee on Executive Directors service agreements and share plans.
5.3 Shareholder engagement At the AGM in 2012, the advisory vote on the 2011 Directors Remuneration Report received 68.5% votes in favour.
The key issues that were raised related to provisions in the Executive Directors service agreements and the quality of disclosure with respect to base salary increases and bonus payments.
As discussed earlier in this Report, the Committee has since reviewed Executive Directors service agreements and addressed concerns with respect to the quality of disclosure.
5.4 Approval This Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Gareth Bullock Chairman, Remuneration Committee 6th March 2013 74 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
