Overview Strategy and performance Sustainability Governance 77 COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE 2010 Code of Best Practice Principles Group Compliance Statement BEFFECTIVENESS 2 Appointments to the Board There should be a formal, rigorous The Nomination Committee is comprised our four independent Non-Executive and transparent procedure for the Directors, the Group Chief Executive and the Chairman, and is responsible for appointment of new directors to the identifying and nominating the best candidates to ll Board vacancies having due board.
regard for the balance of skills and experience.
The Group seeks to have Directors who, in addition to relevant technical and commercial expertise, meet the highest standards of judgement, critical-thinking and openness.
We believe that the Boards perspective and approach is greatly enhanced through gender, age and cultural diversity and it is our policy to consider overall Board balance and diversity when appointing new Directors.
The diagram on page 48 illustrates the diverse range and nationalities of our Board which is particularly relevant given the broad international reach of the Group.
On gender, we appointed Dr Schoolenberg as a Non-Executive Director during 2012 and, subject to appointing Directors of the highest calibre and relevant expertise, we plan to increase female representation on the Board when vacancies arise.
Our aim on Board diversity is to have 25% female directors by 2016.
However, all appointments will continue to be made on merit.
To achieve this target we will ensure that female candidates are considered routinely as part of the recruitment process.
We will also encourage the progress of females in senior positions throughout the Group.
We are pleased to report that we do have a number of females in senior positions including the Europe and Middle East Sales and Marketing Director of Watson-Marlow Pumps, the Chief Financial Of cer and Chairman of Watson-Marlow Ltd and a Regional General Manager in the Spirax Sarco EMEA Division.
We are also constantly improving the intake of female professionals from universities to ensure an improved talent pipeline for senior leadership roles in the future.
3Commitment All directors should be able to allocate The Board ensures that on appointment, and thereafter, all Directors have suf cient suf cient time to the company to time to carry out their duties.
4Development All directors should receive induction on Directors attend formal training seminars to update their knowledge and duties.
joining the board and should regularly The Board is regularly updated on changes to relevant laws and regulations.
update and refresh their skills and Non-Executive Directors are invited to attend Group conferences, which provide knowledge.
information on new product development, sales and marketing initiatives.
Business presentations are given at Board meetings to enable a review of new product development, regional operations, business strategies and employee development.
An induction pack is provided to new appointees to the Board and induction procedures include site visits, brie ngs by senior managers and meetings with major shareholders.
The Board has extensive experience and possesses the relevant skills and knowledge to perform its duties.
In 2012 Mr Daws, Executive Director Asia Paci c and Supply, attended the Advanced Management Programme at Havard Business School.
5 Information and support The board should be supplied in a timely The Board is supplied with management accounts, detailed operational reviews manner with information in a form and and other appropriate papers on a timely basis prior to each meeting.
of a quality appropriate to enable it to All Directors have access to the advice and services of the General Counsel and discharge its duties.
Company Secretary and all Directors are able to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 77
