Statement of compliance continued COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE 2010 Code of Best Practice Principles Group Compliance Statement BEFFECTIVENESS 1 The composition of the Board The board and its committees should All the Non-Executive Directors other than the Non-Executive Chairman are have the appropriate balance of considered by the Board to be independent of the management of the Company skills, experience, independence and and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with knowledge of the company to enable the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Directors have a combination of them to discharge their respective business and industry expertise which is suited to the nature of the Company.
During 2012 there were five Executive and four independent Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Non-Executive Chairman.
The Board is pleased to take this opportunity to explain its reasons for this structure and, in doing so, meets the requirements of the Code to comply or explain.
The Board also wishes to explain why it is justi ed in the circumstances and how good governance is still achieved.
The Group operates a predominantly direct sales business model, a strategy that has been at the heart of the Groups success over many years.
The need for a direct presence in every market of any size leads to a trading structure with many relatively small operations the Group currently has over 50 operating companies in 36 countries and operates in more than 100 countries.
Our business philosophy is to empower the General Managers of our local companies to maximise the opportunities in each market, whilst ensuring there is appropriate oversight, control and integration.
Effective Board oversight and control of this necessarily at organisation structure with many small components is, we believe, best achieved by having knowledgeable Executive Directors on the Board providing direct first-hand operational input to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
The three Executive Directors, in addition to the Group Chief Executive and the Finance Director, are responsible for the EMEA and the Asia Paci c Supply divisions for the steam specialties business, and for the Watson-Marlow peristaltic pumps business.
They have detailed knowledge of their respective divisions and their presence on the Board enables the Chairman and independent Non-Executive Directors to have regular access to the operations of the Group.
Executive Directors also gain valuable experience of wider business issues across different divisions, regions and functional areas, which we believe enhances the Groups succession planning process.
Having a number of Executive Directors on the Board manages the risk of over-reliance on limited Executive Director opinion.
The Board has a well-balanced blend of experienced independently-minded Non-Executive Directors who provide robust challenge.
The practical conduct of Board meetings is such that, even though there are five Executive Directors and four independent Non-Executive Directors excluding the Non-Executive Chairman, the views of the Non-Executive Directors are given due weight and a collective approach to decision-making is adopted.
The Board considers that it has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively and that expanding its size by the appointment of another Non-Executive Director, simply to meet the balance criteria, will have the effect of the Board becoming unwieldy.
Nevertheless, the Board will routinely reconsider the balance and skills of Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
The Group has an excellent track record in delivering sustained growth in shareholder value and 1,000 invested in January 2003 produced a total shareholder return, as at 31st December 2012, of 7,488 649%.
In the latest five-year period, total shareholder return has increased by 201% and the share price has risen from under 9 to over 22 at the end of 2012, all underpinned by the Groups good governance practices over many years.
The external review of Board effectiveness conducted recently by Dr Long, and described in more detail on page 51, concluded that the Board functions effectively and that its decision-making process is excellent.
It is also important to point out that including the Non-Executive Chairman who was independent on appointment balances the Board and the Non-Executive Chairman has a casting vote in the event of a deadlock.
In providing this detailed explanation the Board considers that the Group satis es the requirements of the Code to comply or explain.
76 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
