78 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES notes to the Financial Statements For the 53 weeks ended 29 April 2012 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Continued Useful economic life of intangible assets Provision for dilapidations and onerous lease contracts For intangible assets which have a nite life, the directors revisit The basis of the estimation of the provisioning for dilapidations their estimate of useful economic life at each period end and and onerous lease contracts is detailed in the provision accounting revise accordingly.
Licences and trade marks typically have a life of policy and Note 26. between 10 and 15 years.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based Identication and valuation of acquired intangible assets on historical experience, external advice and other factors, including On acquisition, each material separable intangible asset is identied expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable and valued by the directors with assistance from a professional third under the circumstances.
Any such calculation is judgemental in nature as it is based Provision for costs relating to regulatory enquiries and other on a valuation methodology.
legal disputes Brand valuations are typically valued using the relief from royalty Provision has been made for legal costs incurred in the current and valuation methodology.
previous period relating to ongoing regulatory enquiries and other legal disputes.
The nature and carrying amounts of these assets are set out in Note 15.
Calculation of Bonus Share Scheme charge A share-based payment charge is recognised in respect of share Provision for obsolete, slow moving or defective inventories awards based on the Directors best estimate of the number of The directors have applied their knowledge and experience of shares that will vest.
The charge is calculated based on the fair the sports retail industry in determining the level and rates of value on the grant date, which is deemed to be the date on which provisioning required in calculating the appropriate inventory the entity and counterparty reached a shared understanding of the carrying values.
The nature and carrying amounts are set out in scheme.
The key details in respect of the share scheme charges Note 18. are set out in Note 21.
Financial position of retirement benefit plans The net dened benefit pension plan assets or liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet.
The determination of the financial position requires assumptions to be made regarding inter alia future salary increases, mortality, discount rates and ination.
The key assumptions made in relation to the pension plan are set out in Note 24.
Financial risk management The Groups current activities result in the following financial risks c. Loans to non-UK subsidiaries.
These are hedged via foreign and set out below are managements responses to those risks currency transactions and borrowings in matching currencies, in order to minimise any resulting adverse effects on the Groups which are not formally designated as hedges, as gains and financial performance.
losses on hedges and hedged loans will naturally offset.
Foreign exchange risk Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk principally via: The Group has net borrowings, which are principally at oating interest rates linked to bank base rates or LIBOR.
The Group does a. Transactional exposure from the cost of future purchases of not use interest rate financial instruments to hedge its exposure to goods for resale, where those purchases are denominated in a interest rate movements.
The Group regularly monitors and reacts currency other than the functional currency of the purchasing accordingly to any exposure to uctuations in interest rates and the company.
Transactional exposures that could signicantly impact on its monetary assets and liabilities.
impact the income statement are hedged.
These exposures are hedged via forward foreign currency contracts which are Credit risk designated as cash ow hedges.
The notional and fair value of The directors have a credit policy in place and the exposure to these contracts is shown in Note 27. credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
Net investment exposure, from the fair value of net investments The Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.
The Group hedges its international investments via foreign currency transactions and borrowings in matching currencies.
