55 Code of securities dealing Remuneration The Company has a code of securities dealing in relation to its The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining and shares and other securities which is based on, and is at least as reviewing remuneration policy and setting remuneration levels.
rigorous as, the Model Code as published in the Listing Rules.
The See Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 59. code applies to the Directors and to other appropriate employees of the Group.
Share dealing code The Group has adopted the Model Code as published in the UK Going concern Listing Rules.
As highlighted in note 23 to the Financial Statements and in the Anyone deemed to have insider information must seek consent Financial Review on pages 66 to 111, the Group nances its before dealing in the Groups shares.
day-to-day working capital requirements and has made investments and conducted a share buy-back programme in the past, using a The Executive Directors require the consent of the Chairman or the previous facility with the Bank of Scotland and an on-going facility Senior Independent Director and the Chairman requires consent with a syndicate of banks led by HSBC.
The current economic from the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director.
Any conditions, however, create some uncertainty in the economy and other employees with insider information must gain the consent of particularly in respect of the exchange rate between Sterling and the Chief Executive or Company Secretary.
the US dollar, which impacts on the cost of the Groups products manufactured in the Far East, and the availability of bank finance in the foreseeable future.
By Order of the Board Rebecca Tylee-Birdsall Company Secretary 19 July 2012 Relations with shareholders The Board recognise the importance of communicating with shareholders.
This is done through the Annual Report and financial statements, interim statements and trading updates.
All Directors are available at the Annual General Meeting where shareholders can ask questions.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly meet with the Companys institutional shareholders to discuss the Groups strategy and financial performance within the constraints of information already available to the public.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is also available to meet with shareholders.
Keith Hellawell, Claire Jenkins and Simon Bentley met with shareholders and institutions to discuss various topics throughout the year.
The Companys website is an important method of communication and it holds all material information reported to the London Stock Exchange together with copies of financial reports, interim management statements and trading updates.
