49 Going concern auditor The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Grant Thornton UK LLP have expressed a willingness to continue in affect the future development and performance, are included in ofce and resolutions to determine remuneration are to be agreed the Chief Executives review.
The principal risks and uncertainties at the AGM.
potentially facing the Group are found on pages 30 to 33.
The financial performance of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing are described in the financial review.
In addition to the financial statements, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital, and details of its financial Disclosure of information instruments and hedging activities are described on page 76. to the Auditor The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonable possible changes in trading performance, show In accordance with the provisions of section S418 of the that the Group should be able to operate within the level of the Companies Act 2006 each person who is a Director at the date of current facility.
approval of this report confirms that: The Directors have thoroughly reviewed the Groups performance s So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit and position and the Directors are therefore confident that the information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Group will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
On this basis, the Directors continue to adopt the going s Each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have concern basis for the preparation of the annual report and taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant financial statements.
audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
By Order of the Board Accountability and Audit Rebecca Tylee-Birdsall A statement by the Auditor can be found on page 67 detailing their Company Secretary reporting responsibilities.
The Directors full their responsibilities and 19 July 2012 these are set out in the responsibility statement on page 60.
