73 notes to the Financial Statements For the 53 weeks ended 29 April 2012 1.
Accounting policies The consolidated financial statements of Sports Direct International If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group have or exceeds its investment in the associate or joint venture, the been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
obligations to do so or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union including International Accounting Standards IAS and in the entity.
International Financial Reporting Standards Committee IFRSC Investments interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 Available-for-sale investments are initially recognised at fair value.
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS as adopted for use Where fair value is different to cost, this is recognised in the in the European Union.
The consolidated financial statements have income statement on initial recognition.
Subsequent gains and been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other to include fair valuation of certain financial assets and derivative comprehensive income through the statement of comprehensive financial instruments.
income, until the security is disposed or fide-recognised at which Consolidation time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other The consolidated financial statements consolidate the revenues, comprehensive income is reclassied from equity to the income costs, assets, liabilities and cash ows of the Company and its statement as a reclassication adjustment in the consolidated subsidiaries, being those entities in relation to which the Company income statement for the period.
If an available-for-sale investment has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, is determined to be impaired, the cumulative loss that had been generally achieved by a share of more than 50% of the voting rights.
recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassied from equity to profit or loss.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of Acquisitions acquisition.
Any excess of fair value of the consideration transferred For business combinations achieved in stages, the Group over the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired is remeasures its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of fair value of consideration its acquisition date fair value and recognises the resulting gain transferred below the fair values of the identiable net assets or loss, if any, in profit or loss or other comprehensive income, acquired is credited to the consolidated income statement in the as appropriate.
The non-controlling interest is stated at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of the assets, Goodwill liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Goodwill arising on consolidation is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually or when a change in The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the circumstances or situation indicates that the goodwill has suffered year are included in the consolidated income statement from the an impairment loss.
Any impairment is recognised immediately effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, in the income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a as appropriate.
business include the amount of goodwill relating to that business.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and When the non-controlling interest of an existing subsidiary is losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
acquired the carrying value of the non-controlling interests in the balance sheet is eliminated.
Any difference between the amount by Associates and joint ventures which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair value of Associates are entities over which the Group has significant the consideration paid is recognised directly in equity.
inuence but not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Other intangible assets Brands, trade marks and licences that are internally generated are A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on not recorded on the balance sheet.
Acquired brands, trade marks a long-term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and and licences are initially carried on the balance sheet at cost.
The one or more other venturers under a contractual agreement.
fair value of brands, trade marks and licences that are acquired by virtue of a business combination is determined at the date of The Groups share of the results of associates and joint ventures is acquisition and is subsequently assessed as being the deemed included in the Groups consolidated income statement using the cost to the Group.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the Groups consolidated balance sheet at No amortisation is charged on brands, trade marks or perpetual cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net renewable licences with an indefinite life as the Group believes assets of the associates and joint ventures, less any impairment in that the value of these brands and trade marks can be maintained value.
The carrying values of investments in associates and joint indefinitely.
The Group carries out an impairment review of indefinite ventures include acquired goodwill.
life intangibles, at least annually, or when a change in circumstances or situation indicates that those intangibles have suffered an impairment loss.
