108 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES notes to the company Financial Statements 1.
Accounting policies These accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable Dividends United Kingdom accounting standards.
A summary of the material Dividends on the Companys ordinary shares are recognised as a accounting policies adopted are described below.
liability in the Companys financial statements, and as a deduction from equity, in the period in which the dividends are declared.
Basis of accounting Where such dividends are proposed subject to the approval of the The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost Companys shareholders, the dividends are only declared once convention.
shareholder approval has been obtained.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, a profit Equity instruments and loss account of the Company is not presented.
The Companys An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual profit after taxation for the 53 week period 29 April 2012 was interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its 2,015,000 2011: 1,976,000 loss.
Equity instruments issued by the Company, with the exception of those accounted for via merger relief available under Investments s612 of the Companies Act 2006, are recorded at the proceeds Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less any provision for received, net of any direct issue costs.
Income from Group undertakings Cost represents cash consideration or the amount of ordinary Income from Group undertakings is recognised when qualifying shares issued by the Company at nominal value after taking consideration is received from the Group undertaking.
account of merger relief available under s612 of the Companies Act 2006 plus related acquisition costs capitalised at fair value.
Related party transactions The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained Deferred taxation in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances Deferred tax is provided for on a full provision basis on all timing with wholly owned subsidiaries which form part of the Group.
differences, which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
No timing differences are recognised in respect of gains Share-based payments on sale of assets where those gains have been rolled over into The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20, Sharereplacement assets.
A deferred tax asset is not recognised to the based Payment.
The Company issues equity-settled share-based extent that the transfer of economic benefit in future is more unlikely payments to certain directors and employees of the Company and than not.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant which is expensed to the consolidated income statement on Deferred tax is calculated on a non-discounted basis at the tax a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, Foreign currencies exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
A shareItems arising from transactions denominated in foreign currencies based payment charge of 20,643,000 was recognised for the 53 are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the weeks ended 29 April 2012 based on the directors best estimate transaction.
of the number of shares that will vest.
20,023,000 of this share based payment was recharged to subsidiary undertakings of the At the balance sheet date all monetary assets and liabilities Company.
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the closing rate or at the rate of exchange at which the transaction is contracted to be settled in the future.
All exchange differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
