77 Employee benefit Trust International Financial Reporting Standards Standards in The cost of shares acquired by the Sports Direct Employee benefit issue but not yet effective Trust is recognised within Own share reserve in equity.
At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial statements, the International Accounting Standards Board IASB Share based payments and International Financial Reporting Standards Committee The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain IFRSC have issued the following standards and interpretations directors and employees.
These are measured at fair value at which are effective for annual accounting periods beginning on or the date of grant, which is expensed to the consolidated income after the stated effective date.
statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with the corresponding credit going to equity.
These standards and interpretations are not effective for and have not been applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial Non-market vesting conditions are not taken into account in statements: determining grant date fair value.
Instead, they are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments to vest.
s IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2015 s IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements Fair value is based on the market share price on the grant date, the effective 1 January 2013 likelihood of meeting the vesting targets and the expected number of staff who will leave the Company prior to the vesting date.
The s IFRS 11 Joint arrangements effective 1 January 2013 expected staff numbers used in the model has been adjusted, s IFRS 12 Disclosures Of Interest in Other Entities based on managements best estimate, for the effects of noneffective 1 January 2013 transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
A share-based payment charge of 20,643,000 was recognised s IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective 1 January 2013 in selling, distribution and administrative expenses for the 53 weeks ended 29 April 2012.
The key details in respect of the share s IAS 27 Revised, Separate Financial Statements scheme charges are set out in Note 21. effective 1 January 2013 s IAS 28 Revised, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Equity instruments effective 1 January 2013 An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
s Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets - Amendments to Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the IAS 12 Income Taxes effective 1 January 2012 proceeds received, net of any direct issue costs.
s Annual Improvements 2009-2011 Cycle Dividends effective 1 January 2013 Dividends are recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements and as a deduction from equity in the period in which The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and the dividends are declared.
Where such dividends are proposed interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the subject to the approval of shareholders, the dividends are regarded financial statements of the Group except for the treatment of the as declared once shareholder approval has been obtained.
acquisition of subsidiaries in future accounting periods.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Impairment of tangible assets The critical accounting estimates and judgements The directors review the carrying amounts of the Groups tangible made by the Group regarding the future or other key assets to determine whether there is any indication that those sources of estimation, uncertainty and judgement that assets have suffered an impairment loss.
The key assumptions may have a significant risk of giving rise to a material made in relation to the impairment review of tangible assets are set out in Note 16. adjustment to the carrying values of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are: Impairment of other intangible assets The calculation for considering the impairment of the carrying Impairment of goodwill amount of other intangible assets with an indefinite life, specically The calculation for considering the impairment of the carrying brands, trade marks and licences, requires a comparison of the amount of goodwill requires a comparison of the present value of present value of the related cash ows to the value of the other the cash-generating units to which the goodwill has been allocated, intangible assets in the balance sheet.
The calculation of present to the value of goodwill and associated assets in the balance sheet.
value requires an estimation of the future cash ows expected The calculation of present values requires an estimation of the future to arise from the other intangible assets and the selection of a cash ows expected to arise from the cash-generating units and suitable discount rate.
The key assumptions made in relation to the the selection of a suitable discount rate.
impairment review of other intangible assets are set out in Note 15.
The key assumptions made in relation to the impairment review of goodwill are set out in Note 15.
