73 notes to the Financial Statements For the 53 weeks ended 29 April 2012 1.
Accounting policies The consolidated financial statements of Sports Direct International If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group have or exceeds its investment in the associate or joint venture, the been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
obligations to do so or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union including International Accounting Standards IAS and in the entity.
International Financial Reporting Standards Committee IFRSC Investments interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 Available-for-sale investments are initially recognised at fair value.
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS as adopted for use Where fair value is different to cost, this is recognised in the in the European Union.
The consolidated financial statements have income statement on initial recognition.
Subsequent gains and been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other to include fair valuation of certain financial assets and derivative comprehensive income through the statement of comprehensive financial instruments.
income, until the security is disposed or fide-recognised at which Consolidation time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other The consolidated financial statements consolidate the revenues, comprehensive income is reclassied from equity to the income costs, assets, liabilities and cash ows of the Company and its statement as a reclassication adjustment in the consolidated subsidiaries, being those entities in relation to which the Company income statement for the period.
If an available-for-sale investment has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, is determined to be impaired, the cumulative loss that had been generally achieved by a share of more than 50% of the voting rights.
recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassied from equity to profit or loss.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of Acquisitions acquisition.
Any excess of fair value of the consideration transferred For business combinations achieved in stages, the Group over the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired is remeasures its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of fair value of consideration its acquisition date fair value and recognises the resulting gain transferred below the fair values of the identiable net assets or loss, if any, in profit or loss or other comprehensive income, acquired is credited to the consolidated income statement in the as appropriate.
The non-controlling interest is stated at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of the assets, Goodwill liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Goodwill arising on consolidation is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually or when a change in The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the circumstances or situation indicates that the goodwill has suffered year are included in the consolidated income statement from the an impairment loss.
Any impairment is recognised immediately effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, in the income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a as appropriate.
business include the amount of goodwill relating to that business.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and When the non-controlling interest of an existing subsidiary is losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
acquired the carrying value of the non-controlling interests in the balance sheet is eliminated.
Any difference between the amount by Associates and joint ventures which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair value of Associates are entities over which the Group has significant the consideration paid is recognised directly in equity.
inuence but not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Other intangible assets Brands, trade marks and licences that are internally generated are A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on not recorded on the balance sheet.
Acquired brands, trade marks a long-term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and and licences are initially carried on the balance sheet at cost.
The one or more other venturers under a contractual agreement.
fair value of brands, trade marks and licences that are acquired by virtue of a business combination is determined at the date of The Groups share of the results of associates and joint ventures is acquisition and is subsequently assessed as being the deemed included in the Groups consolidated income statement using the cost to the Group.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the Groups consolidated balance sheet at No amortisation is charged on brands, trade marks or perpetual cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net renewable licences with an indefinite life as the Group believes assets of the associates and joint ventures, less any impairment in that the value of these brands and trade marks can be maintained value.
The carrying values of investments in associates and joint indefinitely.
The Group carries out an impairment review of indefinite ventures include acquired goodwill.
life intangibles, at least annually, or when a change in circumstances or situation indicates that those intangibles have suffered an impairment loss.
74 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES notes to the Financial Statements For the 53 weeks ended 29 April 2012 1.
Accounting policies Continued Impairment is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and intangible asset as part of the cash generating unit CGU with the value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash recoverable amount of the CGU, that is, the higher of its fair value ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is calculated by rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of discounting the expected future cash ows, using a discount rate money and the risks specic to the asset for which the estimates of based on an estimate of the rate that the market would expect on future cash ows have not been adjusted.
an investment of comparable risk.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit Amortisation is provided on brands, trade marks and licences with is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying a definite life over their useful economic lives of 10 to 15 years and amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its is accounted for within the selling, distribution and administrative recoverable amount.
expenses category within the income statement.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, Property, plant and equipment unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
less depreciation less any recognised impairment losses.
Cost Impairment losses recognised for cash-generating units, to which includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition goodwill has been allocated, are credited initially to the carrying or construction of these items.
Subsequent costs are included in amount of goodwill.
Any remaining impairment loss is charged pro the assets carrying amount only when it is probable that future rata to the other assets in the cash-generating unit.
economic benets associated with the item will ow to the Group and the costs can be measured reliably.
All other costs, including Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying repairs and maintenance costs, are charged to the income amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the statement in the period in which they are incurred.
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment other that would have been determined had no impairment loss been than freehold land and is calculated on a reducing balance basis or recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior periods.
straight-line basis, whichever is deemed by the directors to be more A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income appropriate, to allocate cost less assessed residual value, other statement immediately.
than assets in the course of construction, over the estimated useful lives, as follows: Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and Freehold buildings 2% per annum straight line services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and sales related taxes.
over the term of Leasehold property straight line the lease In the case of goods sold through retail stores and the internet, revenue is recognised when goods are sold to the customer, less Plant and between 5% and reducing balance provision for returns.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate equipment 33% per annum and provide for such returns at the time of the sale.
Retail sales are usually in cash, by debit card or by credit card.
The assets useful lives and residual values are reviewed and, if In the case of income generated from trade marks and licences, appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date.
revenue is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the relevant agreements or on a transactional basis when revenue is The gain or loss arising on disposal or scrapping of an asset is linked to sale or purchase volumes.
determined as the difference between the sales proceeds, net of selling costs, and the carrying amount of the asset and is Revenue from property related transactions is recognised when the recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of assets other than goodwill and intangible Exceptional items assets with an indefinite life The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income At each balance sheet date, the directors review the carrying statement those significant items of income and expense which, amounts of the Groups tangible and intangible assets, other than because of their size, nature and infrequency of the events giving goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life, to determine rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods to assess trends in amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of financial performance more readily.
the impairment loss, if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates Interest income the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the Interest is income reported on an accrual basis using the effective asset belongs.
75 Government grants and similar income Cash and cash equivalents Income from government grants and similar income such as Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held landlord contributions and inducements that compensate the on call, together with other short term highly liquid investments, that Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the balance sheet are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are as a deduction in arriving at the carrying amount of the related subject to an insignicant risk of changes in value.
This is considered to reect the true cost of the asset to Trade and other payables the Group.
The amount is recognised in the consolidated income Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value, and statement over the life of the depreciable asset by way of a reduced are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective depreciation charge.
To date the Group has not received government grants in Deferred taxation compensation for expenses charged in the consolidated Deferred taxation is calculated using the liability method, on income statement.
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and Foreign currencies liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial The presentational currency of the Group is Sterling.
However, if the deferred tax arises from the initial currency transactions are translated into Sterling using the recognition of goodwill or initial recognition of an asset or liability in exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the it is not accounted for.
income statement for the period.
Deferred tax on temporary differences associated with shares in Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary subsidiaries and joint ventures is not provided if reversal of these items carried at fair value are included in the income statement for temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and it is the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of nonprobable that reversal will not occur in the foreseeable future.
In monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognise addition, tax losses available to be carried forward as well as other in other comprehensive income.
For such non-monetary items, income tax credits to the Group are assessed for recognition as any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates directly in equity.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related the balance sheet date.
deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations Deferred tax liabilities are provided in full.
which have a functional currency other than Sterling are translated Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable into Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet that future taxable profits will be available against which the date.
The revenues and expenses of these subsidiary undertakings temporary differences can be utilised.
are translated at average rates applicable in the period.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive Changes in current and deferred tax assets or liabilities are income and documented in a separate component of equity.
recognised as a component of tax expense in the in the income statement, except where they relate to items that are charged or When a foreign operation is sold, the cumulative exchange credited directly to equity in which case the related deferred tax is differences that have been recognised as a separate component also charged or credited directly to equity.
of equity are reclassied from equity to the income statement when disposal is recognised.
Pensions The Group operates pension plans for the benefit of certain In order to mitigate its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, employees, including both dened contribution and dened the Group enters into forward contracts See Chief Executives benefit plans.
report and the cash ow hedging accounting policy on page 76.
In relation to its dened contribution plans, the Group makes Inventories contributions to independently administered plans, the contributions Inventories are valued at lower of cost and net realisable value.
being recognised as an expense when they fall due.
The Group has Cost includes the purchase price of the manufactured products, no legal or constructive obligation to make any further payments to materials, direct labour, transport costs and a proportion of the plans other than the contributions due.
Cost is calculated using FIFO first in, first out.
Net realisable value is based on the estimated selling price less In relation to its dened benefit schemes, the Group recognises in all estimated selling costs.
its balance sheet the present value of its dened benefit obligations less the fair value of plan assets.
The current service cost is Loans and receivables charged against operating profit.
Interest on the scheme liabilities Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value plus is included in finance costs and the expected return on scheme transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost assets is included in finance income.
under the effective interest method less provision for impairment.
Provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable.
The amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash ows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
76 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES notes to the Financial Statements For the 53 weeks ended 29 April 2012 1.
Accounting policies Continued The dened benefit obligation is calculated at each period end Rental income from operating leases where the Group acts as a by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
lessor is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the The present value of the obligation is determined by discounting relevant lease.
the estimated future cash outows using interest rates of high Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in The most significant exposure to foreign exchange uctuations which the benets will be paid and which have terms to maturity relates to purchases made in foreign currencies, principally the approximating the terms of the related pension liabilities.
The Groups policy is to reduce substantially the risk gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes associated with purchases denominated in foreign currencies by in actuarial assumptions are reected in the other comprehensive using forward xed rate currency purchase contracts, taking into income in the period in which they arise.
account any foreign currency cash ows.
Borrowings and borrowing costs Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Where Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or costs incurred, and subsequently at amortised cost.
Any difference losses on remeasurement are immediately recognised in the between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption income statement.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of borrowings using the effective interest method.
the hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
Borrowings are classied as current liabilities unless the Group has In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least document from inception the relationship between the item being 12 months from the balance sheet date.
hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required Borrowing costs, being interest and other costs incurred in to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship connection with the servicing of borrowings, are recognised as an between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which expense when incurred.
shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is performed at each period end to ensure Provisions that the hedge remains highly effective.
A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that Cash ow hedging an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and Derivative financial instruments are classied as cash ow a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to variability in cash ows that are either attributable to a particular risk The Group provides for its legal responsibility for dilapidations associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable costs following advice from chartered surveyors and previous forecast transaction.
The estimated cost of fullling the leasehold dilapidations obligations is discounted to present value The effective element of any gain or loss from remeasuring the and analysed between non-capital and capital components.
The derivative instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive capital element is recognised as a decommissioning cost and income to the income statement as a reclassication adjustment.
depreciated over the life of the asset.
The non-capital element The associated cumulative gain or loss is reclassied from equity is taken to the income statement in the first year of the lease and in the same period or periods during which the hedged where the cost it represents is of no lasting benefit to the Group transaction affects the profit or loss.
The classication of the or its landlord.
Wear and tear costs are expensed to the income effective portion when recognised in the income statement is the statement.
Provisions for onerous lease contracts are recognised same as the classication of the hedged transaction.
Any element when the Group believes the unavoidable costs of meeting the of the remeasurement of the derivative instrument which does not lease obligations exceed the economic benets expected to be meet the criteria for an effective hedge is recognised immediately in received under the lease.
the income statement within finance income or costs.
Leases Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualies for substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassied from achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The equity to the income statement as a reclassication adjustment.
asset subject to the finance lease is depreciated over the shorter of its useful life and the lease term.
The corresponding rental Treasury Shares obligations, net of finance charges, are included as a liability.
The purchase price of the Groups own shares that it acquires is recognised as Treasury Shares within equity.
When shares are Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group does transferred out of Treasury the difference between the market value not have substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are and the average purchase price of shares sold out of Treasury is classied as operating leases.
Payments made under operating transferred to retained earnings.
leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Incentives provided by the lessor are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the minimum lease term.
