SSE Annual Report 2012 98 Notes on the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information SSE plc the Company is a company domiciled in Scotland.
The Company changed its name from Scottish and Southern Energy plc to SSE plc on 1 October 2011.
The address of the registered office is given on the back cover.
The Groups operations and its principal activities are set out earlier in this Report at pages 9 to 54.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and related notes.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 15 May 2012.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and its interpretations as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future taking account of net current liabilities of 23.6m.
The financial statements are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
Further details of the Groups liquidity position and going concern review are provided in note 31 of the Financial Statements on page 151.
Basis of measurement The financial statements of the Group and the Company are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments, biological assets and the assets of the Group pension scheme which are stated at their fair value, and the liabilities of the Group pension schemes which are measured using the projected unit credit method.
The Directors believe the financial statements present a true and fair view.
The financial statements of the Group and Company are presented in pounds Sterling.
Operations and transactions conducted in currencies other than pounds Sterling are included in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Groups foreign currencies accounting policy.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements conforming with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher level of judgement or estimation are summarised at page 106.
Exceptional items and certain remeasurements As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, the Group has disclosed additional information in respect of jointly controlled entities and associates, exceptional items and certain remeasurements on the face of the income statement to aid understanding of the Groups financial performance.
An item is treated as exceptional if it is considered unusual by nature and scale and of such significance that separate disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood.
Certain remeasurements are remeasurements arising on certain commodity, interest rate and currency contracts which are accounted for as held for trading or as fair value hedges in accordance with the Groups policy for such financial instruments.
This excludes commodity contracts not treated as financial instruments under IAS 39 where held for the Groups own use requirements.
Standards, amendments and interpretations There are no new standards, amendments or interpretations that are effective for the first time for the current financial year that have had a material impact on the Group.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards, amendments to existing standards and interpretations have been issued, which have not been adopted in these consolidated financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: Amendment to IFRS 7 Disclosures transfers of financial assets Effective on or after 1 July 2011 IFRS 9 Financial instruments Effective on or after 1 January 2015 IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements Effective on or after 1 January 2013 IFRS 11 Joint arrangements Effective on or after 1 January 2013 IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities Effective on or after 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair value measurement Effective on or after 1 January 2013 Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of items of other comprehensive income Effective on or after 1 July 2012 Amendment to IAS12 Deferred tax recovery of underlying assets Effective on or after 1 January 2012 IAS 19 Employee benets Effective on or after 1 January 2013 IAS 27 Separate financial statements Effective on or after 1 January 2013 IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures Effective on or after 1 January 2013 The above, with the exception of the IFRS 7 amendment, are awaiting EU endorsement and as such have not been early adopted by the Group.
The impact of adopting these standards and amendments to existing standards is currently being assessed.
