Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 133 Nature and extent of rights and obligations The assets are part of the public highway and ownership of the assets remains with the Councils.
The contract holding companies are licensed to replace and maintain the assets for the period of the contract.
This obligation is passed down to SSE Contracting Limited or to other companies within the SSE Contracting group of companies through operating sub-contracts.
Any failure to provide the services to the required standards will result in financial penalties which are taken from the unitary charge.
The companies have 25 year contracts with no extension options.
Termination during this period can be initiated through a number of routes including service provider default, force majeure or the event of a risk becoming uninsurable, authority default, voluntary authority termination, or termination for a prohibited act or breach of refinancing provisions.
In all cases, a formula exists for calculating compensation payments to the service provider.
Throughout the contract period there are a number of circumstances under which the companies could potentially be required to provide additional services: i Changes in the law If circumstances arise where by a change in legislation would mean a change in the way the services are to be provided the companies would be liable for part of the cost of this change.
ii Final survey The Councils have the ability to deduct a percentage of the unitary charge in the last two years if an independent survey indicates the assets are unlikely to have a 5-year residual life.
ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSALS AND HELD FOR SALE ASSETS a Additions During the year, the Group acquired full ownership of three wind farm development companies including the acquisition of the remaining holding in St Johns Hill Limited, a 50% owned joint venture that was designated as held for sale at March 2011.
Total consideration paid for these businesses was 3.6m.
The net assets acquired can be summarised in the following table: m Assets acquired: Goodwill 0.3 Intangible development assets 3.6 Deferred tax 0.3 Net assets 3.6 St Johns Hill Limited was subsequently disposed for cash consideration of 2.3m, which gave rise to a 0.3m gain on disposal.
b Disposals In addition to the disposal of St Johns Hill Limited, the Group disposed of three 100% owned wind farms for cash consideration of 176.4m on 14 April 2011.
These wind farms were disclosed as held for sale assets at 31 March 2011.
No gain or loss was recognised on the transaction.
Consideration of 6.8m was received in respect of additional disposals of subsidiary investments, which realised a gain on disposal of 5.2m.
c Held for sale assets At 31 March 2011, a number of wind generation and development assets were presented as held for sale following the decision of the Groups management to sell the respective companies and their related assets.
In addition, certain items of plant were also held for sale at that date.
In the year to 31 March 2012, the Group disposed of a number of the assets held for sale at the previous year end generating a net loss of 0.3m and cash proceeds of 184.5m.
In addition, an impairment charge of 9.9m was recognised on certain development assets held for sale.
The assets and liabilities classified as held for sale, and the comparative balances at 31 March 2011, are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Property, plant and equipment 5.5 204.9 Intangible development assets 10.7 Equity investment in jointly controlled entities 58.3 63.7 Cash and cash equivalents 3.9 23.0 Other net current liabilities 0.3 9.6 Deferred tax 23.3 68.0 269.4
