Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 123 a Impairment review of goodwill and basis of other impairment reviews Goodwill is allocated to those cash-generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the respective business combination for impairment testing purposes.
Certain goodwill valuations have changed in the current year following retranslation.
A summary of the goodwill allocated to CGUs and the Groups operating segments is presented below: 2012 2011 Cash-generating unit Operating Segment m m Ireland wind farms Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation 153.1 159.9 UK wind farms Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation 199.9 199.9 European wind farms Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation 20.3 UK Supply Energy Supply 187.0 187.0 UK Generation Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation 10.1 10.1 Gas Storage Gas Storage 26.2 56.2 Exploration and Production Gas Production 38.1 38.1 Other Networks i Other Networks 10.6 11.3 Energy-related Services i Energy-related Services 2.5 2.5 627.5 685.3 i Represents goodwill balances related to acquisitions of Telecoms, Streetlighting Other Networks and Contracting businesses Energy-related Services.
The amount of goodwill is not significant compared to the aggregate carrying value of the business units or the aggregate value of goodwill held by the Group.
Following review, it is concluded that no impairment is required.
The recoverable amount of the UK Supply, Gas Storage and Exploration and Production CGUs is determined by reference to value-in-use calculations.
The impairment review of the UK Generation CGU has been discontinued and is commented upon below.
The value-in-use calculations use, as a starting point, pre-tax cash flow projections based on the Groups five year business model as approved by the Board.
The Groups business model is based on past experience and reflects the Groups forward view of markets, prices, risks and its strategic objectives.
Commodity prices used are based on observable market data and, where this is not available, on internal estimates.
The recoverable amount of the various wind farm CGUs is based on the fair value less costs to sell methodology.
The basis applied has been deemed appropriate as it is consistent with the way in which the economic value of the individual CGUs are assessed by management and would be by other market participants.
The method applied is to determine fair value by assessing the discounted pre-tax cash flows expected to be earned by the individual wind farm projects within the respective CGUs.
The three identified CGUs Ireland wind farms, UK wind farms, European wind farms share many of the same risk factors and are discounted accordingly.
The key assumptions used for the main value-in-use calculations are as follows: 2012 and 2011 2012 2011 Cash ow Discount rate Discount rate projection period Cash-generating unit Operating Segment % % years Ireland, UK and Europe wind farms Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation 7.0%-9.0% 7.0%-9.0% 25 onshore and offshore UK Supply Energy Supply 8.3% 8.3% 5 UK Generation excluding wind Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation 8.3% 15 8.3% Gas Storage Gas Storage 8.3% 8.3% 20 Exploration and Production Gas Production 8.0%-10.0% 8.0%-10.0% Life of eld Management have determined the pre-tax cash flows of each CGU based on past performance and its expectations of market development.
Further detail on how the cash flow projections have been derived is included in the specific commentaries.
The discount rates used are pre-tax real and reflect specific risks attributable to the relevant operating segments.
The discount rates used have been benchmarked against externally published rates used by comparable quoted companies operating in the respective market sectors.
The recoverable amount derived from the value-in-use calculation is compared to the carrying amount of each CGU to determine whether the respective CGUs require to be impaired.
Specific comments on the key value-in-use and fair value less costs to sell calculations for the main CGUs and the results of the tests conducted follow: All wind farm CGUs For goodwill impairment testing purposes, the significant wind farm CGUs were established following the acquisition of the SSE Renewables formerly Airtricity business in 2008.
In order to assess the respective recoverable amounts against an appropriate carrying value, goodwill was allocated to the main geographic regions in which the business operates.
The established CGUs Ireland, UK, rest of Europe have subsequently been assessed by considering the specific market attributes of those regions.
Currency cash flows are set at the exchange rate at the time the impairment test is conducted.
Aside from these specific market factors, the basis of review of the respective CGUs is identical.
SSE Annual Report 2012 124 Notes on the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 11.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued Wind farm projects have an estimated useful life of up to 25 years and it is considered appropriate by management to assess the carrying amount against cash flow projections covering this period.
The Ireland and UK wind CGUs include wind farms in operation and all CGUs include projects in the construction phase or in the development portfolio phase.
These development projects are those which have not received consent or have not concluded all environmental or planning studies and as a consequence the associated cash flows have been probability adjusted.
Cash inflows for all projects are based on expected generation output from projects based on wind studies and past experience and are valued at forward power prices based on market information, where available, continuing government support for wind ROCs and internal model assumptions.
Cash outflows are based on planned capital expenditure and expected maintenance costs.
The power prices and costs of operation are the most significant distinguishing factors in the respective CGU regions.
Growth is based on the expected output of the respective wind farms at their available operational capacity over their life cycle and on delivery of projects in the development pipeline.
Outcome of tests The recoverable amounts of the UK and Ireland wind farm CGUs, following the impairment of 20.3m of property, plant and equipment and intangible development assets in the Ireland CGU, exceeded the respective carrying values at the time of the impairment test.
While cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions applied in assessing the fair value less coststo-sell would not cause a change to the conclusion reached.
Following review of the economic prospects in relation to the European portfolio, including developments in Italy, Portugal, Sweden and Germany, the goodwill associated with the CGU has been fully impaired.
Accordingly, an exceptional charge of 19.3m has been recognised note 5.
UK Supply Goodwill carried in relation to the acquisition, in 2001, of the Swalec supply business is attributed to the Groups UK retail electricity and gas supply business CGU.
The activities within CGU equate to the new energy supply reportable segment with the exception of the Airtricity supply business in Ireland.
Margins assumed in the value in use calculations are based on current contractual terms and historic gross margin percentages earned.
Revenues are based on the expected market share derived from the market share at the time of the approval of the business model adjusted for forecasted growth.
Growth in customer numbers is moderate over the forecast period and cash outflows associated with increased customer service are incorporated accordingly.
This growth rate is supported by reference to both past performance and management expectation.
Margin assumptions also take account of forward wholesale energy price curves for both electricity and gas.
Outcome of test The recoverable amount of the UK Supply CGU exceeded the respective carrying value at the time of the impairment test.
While cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions applied in assessing the value-in-use would not cause a change to the conclusion reached.
UK Generation excluding wind Goodwill of 10.1m is carried by the Group in relation to acquired deferred tax temporary differences.
No other goodwill balances related to the previously identified UK Generation CGU were held at March 2011 and March 2012.
The operational plants in Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation are operated as part of the integrated business segment.
An impairment review of goodwill is not necessary in the year to March 2012, and consequently the Groups measurement on the CGU basis applied in previous years on the projected cash flows of the main UK Generation plants has been discontinued.
Instead, all plants exhibiting indications of impairment have been reviewed independently to derive the extent of any potential impairment see note 12.
Gas Storage Goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of the Hornsea gas storage facility in 2003.
Initial cash flow projections are based on gross margins expected to be achieved in the period of the five year business model.
Beyond this period, cash flows have been extrapolated at a growth rate lower than the long-term growth rate of the economy to the end of the assets expected economic lives.
This longer period is necessary due to the long-term infrastructure nature of these assets but will consequently introduce less certainty into the valuation process.
Assumptions on margin for the business plan period are based on expected demand for gas storage and take into account published and projected gas wholesale prices, planned capital expenditure required to maintain the value of the facility and estimated operating costs.
Outcome of test The review indicated that the prospects in the medium term for the CGU had been impacted by lower volatility in the gas market and lower demand for gas from generating plants.
As a consequence, an impairment charge of 30.0m has been recognised against the value of goodwill held.
There is an inherent uncertainty in the valuation process but reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions applied in assessing the value-in-use may potentially require further impairment.
The impact of these changes is dependent upon a number of factors but reasonably possible changes could further impair the remaining goodwill balance of 26.2m.
