SSE Annual Report 2012 98 Notes on the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information SSE plc the Company is a company domiciled in Scotland.
The Company changed its name from Scottish and Southern Energy plc to SSE plc on 1 October 2011.
The address of the registered office is given on the back cover.
The Groups operations and its principal activities are set out earlier in this Report at pages 9 to 54.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and related notes.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 15 May 2012.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and its interpretations as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future taking account of net current liabilities of 23.6m.
The financial statements are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
Further details of the Groups liquidity position and going concern review are provided in note 31 of the Financial Statements on page 151.
Basis of measurement The financial statements of the Group and the Company are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments, biological assets and the assets of the Group pension scheme which are stated at their fair value, and the liabilities of the Group pension schemes which are measured using the projected unit credit method.
The Directors believe the financial statements present a true and fair view.
The financial statements of the Group and Company are presented in pounds Sterling.
Operations and transactions conducted in currencies other than pounds Sterling are included in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Groups foreign currencies accounting policy.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements conforming with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher level of judgement or estimation are summarised at page 106.
Exceptional items and certain remeasurements As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, the Group has disclosed additional information in respect of jointly controlled entities and associates, exceptional items and certain remeasurements on the face of the income statement to aid understanding of the Groups financial performance.
An item is treated as exceptional if it is considered unusual by nature and scale and of such significance that separate disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood.
Certain remeasurements are remeasurements arising on certain commodity, interest rate and currency contracts which are accounted for as held for trading or as fair value hedges in accordance with the Groups policy for such financial instruments.
This excludes commodity contracts not treated as financial instruments under IAS 39 where held for the Groups own use requirements.
Standards, amendments and interpretations There are no new standards, amendments or interpretations that are effective for the first time for the current financial year that have had a material impact on the Group.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards, amendments to existing standards and interpretations have been issued, which have not been adopted in these consolidated financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: Amendment to IFRS 7 Disclosures transfers of financial assets Effective on or after 1 July 2011 IFRS 9 Financial instruments Effective on or after 1 January 2015 IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements Effective on or after 1 January 2013 IFRS 11 Joint arrangements Effective on or after 1 January 2013 IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities Effective on or after 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair value measurement Effective on or after 1 January 2013 Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of items of other comprehensive income Effective on or after 1 July 2012 Amendment to IAS12 Deferred tax recovery of underlying assets Effective on or after 1 January 2012 IAS 19 Employee benets Effective on or after 1 January 2013 IAS 27 Separate financial statements Effective on or after 1 January 2013 IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures Effective on or after 1 January 2013 The above, with the exception of the IFRS 7 amendment, are awaiting EU endorsement and as such have not been early adopted by the Group.
The impact of adopting these standards and amendments to existing standards is currently being assessed.
Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 99 Basis of consolidation The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together with the Groups share of the results and net assets of its jointly controlled entities and associates.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries including special purpose entities are those entities controlled by the Group or the Company.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated in the financial statements of the Group from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method of accounting.
The special purpose entities referred to relate to entities in which the Group has a 50% shareholding but whose activities the Group is deemed to control under SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
In the Company, investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies, normally where the Group has a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method and are recognised initially at cost.
The cost of the investment includes transaction costs.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of associates, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
In the Company, investments in associates are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Joint ventures Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
In the consolidated financial statements, investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and are recognised initially at cost.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of jointly controlled entities, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group.
Jointly controlled operations are businesses which use assets and liabilities that are separable from the rest of the Group.
In these arrangements, the Group accounts for its own share of property, plant and equipment, carries its own inventories, incurs its own expenses and liabilities and raises its own finance.
In the Company, investments in jointly controlled entities are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-Group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from Intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Accounting policies Revenue recognition: energy, services and goods relating to the sale of energy Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue comprises sales of energy, use of system income, gas production revenue, gas storage facility revenue, the value of contracted services and facilities provided and goods sold during the year in the normal course of business.
Revenue on energy sales comprises sales to retail end-user customers including an estimate of the value of electricity and gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
Revenue on energy sales also includes monies received from the electricity and gas balancing markets in the UK and other wholesale market energy sales.
Unread energy sales are estimated using historical consumption patterns taking account of industry volume reconciliation processes.
Revenue from sales and optimisation trades in physical and financial energy and commodity contracts is recognised gross in the income statement.
Revenue associated with business interruption insurance claims is recognised as revenue in the income statement only when it is virtually certain that the claim will be successful.
SSE Annual Report 2012 100 Notes on the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Revenue from use of energy systems includes an estimation of the volume of electricity distributed or transmitted by customers based on independently procured electricity settlement systems data.
Annual revenue is dependent on being approved by the industry regulator, Ofgem.
Certain circumstances may result in the regulatory allowed income being overor under-recovered in the financial year.
Any overor underrecovery is included in the calculation of the following years regulatory use of system revenue within agreed parameters.
No adjustment is made for overor under-recoveries in the year that they arise.
Revenue from the production of natural gas, crude oil and condensates is recognised when title passes to the customer.
The Group has an interest with other producers in jointly controlled operations for the production of such products.
Revenue under these arrangements is recognised based on the entitlement method in reference to the Groups interest and the relevant production sharing terms.
Where there are differences between the Groups share of production and the volume sold, an overlift or underlift is recorded see below.
Where the Group has an ongoing obligation to provide services, revenues are recognised as the service is performed and amounts billed in advance are treated as deferred income and excluded from current revenue.
For network connections activity from 1 November 2009, the revenue recognition rules of IFRIC 18 have been applied, whereby income is recognised over the course of completion of the associated capital works unless there is a future service obligation, in which case revenue is recognised over the service period.
Revenue from fixed-fee service contracts is recognised over the life of the contract, in relation to the benefit received by the customer.
Gas storage facilities revenues are recognised evenly over the contract period, whilst revenues for the injection and withdrawal of gas are recognised at the point of gas flowing into or out of the storage facilities.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed, along with the risks and rewards of ownership.
Exploration, evaluation and production assets The Group uses the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and evaluation expenditure associated with exploration wells or prospects.
This expenditure will be capitalised initially within intangible assets and will include licence acquisition costs associated with the prospects.
If the prospects are subsequently determined to be successful on completion of the evaluation period, the relevant expenditure will be transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciated on a unit of production basis.
If the prospects are subsequently determined to be unsuccessful on completion of the evaluation period, the intangible asset will be expensed in the period in which that determination is made.
All field development costs, including rights and concessions related to production activities, are capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Capitalised costs relate to the acquisition and installation of production assets and facilities and includes specialist engineering, drilling and technical services costs.
These property, plant and equipment assets are depreciated from the commencement of production in the fields concerned, using the unit of production method, based on the proven and probable reserves of those fields.
Changes in these estimates are dealt with prospectively.
The carrying value of exploration prospects is regularly compared on an individual field basis with the expected discounted future net revenues associated with the remaining commercial reserves.
An impairment loss will be recognised where it is considered that recorded amounts are unlikely to be fully recovered from the net present value of future net revenues.
All exploration and production assets are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
Government grants A government grant is recognised in the balance sheet initially as deferred income when there is reasonable assurance that it will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to it.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis in the same years in which the expenses are incurred.
Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset to match the depreciation charge.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement contains a lease is dependent on whether the arrangement relates to use and control of a specific asset.
Leases are classified as finance leases if the arrangement transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are categorised as operating leases.
i Operating lease obligations Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
ii Finance lease obligations A ssets held under finance leases are capitalised and held as part of property, plant and equipment.
The accounting policy for such arrangements is described on page 102.
Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 101 Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the Groups presentational currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured accordingly.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising on the restatement of such items is taken to the income statement with the exception of exchange gains or losses on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity or exchange gains or losses incurred as part of a qualifying cash flow hedge.
Exchange gains or losses on net investment hedges are taken against the consolidated translation reserve, a separate component of equity, to the extent the hedge is effective.
Non-monetary assets that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the historic rate at the date of transaction.
For the purpose of presenting the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated into pounds Sterling at the balance sheet closing rate.
The results of these operations are translated at the average rate in the relevant period.
Exchange differences on retranslation of the opening net assets and the results are transferred to the translation reserve and are reported in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings, foreign exchange contracts or foreign currency swaps used as part of a hedge against net investment in a foreign entity are transferred to the translation reserve.
Finance income and costs Finance income comprises interest receivable on funds invested and expected returns on pension scheme assets recognised in the income statement.
Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings and finance leases, the release of discounting on provisions, interest on pension scheme liabilities and accretion of the debt component on the convertible loan less capitalised interest.
Interest on the funding attributable to major capital projects is capitalised during the years of construction and depreciated as part of the total cost over the useful life of the asset.
Interest income and costs are recognised in the income statement as they accrue, on an effective interest method.
The issue costs and interest payable on bonds and all other interest payable and receivable is reflected in the income statement on the same basis.
Taxation Taxation on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities other than in business combinations that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset within the same tax authority and where the Company intends to either settle them on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Dividends Dividend income is recognised on the date the Groups right to receive payments is established.
Dividend liabilities are recognised on the date the Groups obligation to pay dividends is established.
Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and other directly attributable costs.
All items of property, plant and equipment are accounted for under the cost model within IAS 16.
The purchase price of an asset will include the fair value of the consideration paid to acquire the asset.
SSE Annual Report 2012 102 Notes on the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, the components are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment, and depreciated accordingly.
ii Leased assets Le ases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as part of the property, plant and equipment of the Group at the fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also allocated on a straight line basis over the lease term.
iii Hydro civil assets The Group is obliged under the Reservoirs Act 1975 to maintain its hydro infrastructure network, including its dams, tunnels and other hydro civil engineering structures hydro civil assets.
All items of property, plant and equipment within hydro civil assets, with the exception of land, are subject to depreciation.
In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 1, the Group identified the carrying value of these assets at privatisation and has treated this value as deemed cost.
Following this assessment, the assets, and all subsequent enhancement and replacement expenditure, has been subject to depreciation over a useful economic life of 100 years.
All subsequent maintenance expenditure is chargeable directly to the income statement.
iv Depreciation D epreciation is charged to the income statement to write off cost, less residual values, on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives with the exception of Gas and Oil Production Assets which are depreciated on the Units of Production basis.
Heritable and freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation policy, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at least annually, for all asset classes to ensure that the current method is the most appropriate.
Depreciation commences following the asset commissioning period and when the asset is available for commercial operation.
The estimated useful lives for assets depreciated on a straight line basis are as follows: Years Hydro civil assets 100 Thermal and hydro power stations including electrical and mechanical assets 20 to 60 Operating wind farms 20 to 25 Overhead lines, under ground cables and other network assets 40 to 80 Gas storage facilities 25 to 50 Other transmission and distribution buildings, plant and equipment 10 to 45 Office buildings 30 to 40 Shop and office refurbishment, xtures, IT assets, vehicles and mobile plant 3 to 10 A ssets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
v Subsequent expenditure I t is the Group policy to capitalise qualifying replacement expenditure and depreciate it over the expected useful life of the replaced asset.
Replaced assets are derecognised at this point and the costs recorded as costs of disposal.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment is replaced and it is not practicable to determine the carrying amount of the replaced part, the cost of the replacement adjusted for inflation will be used as an approximation of the cost of the replaced part at the time it was acquired or constructed.
E xpenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment that is accounted for separately is capitalised.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits of the item of property, plant and equipment to which it relates.
Biological assets Biological assets, such as living trees, are measured at their fair value less estimated point of sale costs.
The valuation of forest assets is based on discounted cash flow models whereby the fair value of the biological asset is calculated using cash flows from continuous operations, that is, each forest asset is split into an appropriate grouping based on the maturity and or type of trees.
An expected future volume of Timber that will be produced from each of these groups is then derived.
The expected volume is used to apply a market value to the groups of trees based on the market value of Standing Timber.
These market values are discounted based on the time to full maturity to appropriately value each grouping.
Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 103 Periodic changes resulting from growth, felling prices, discount rate, costs and other premise changes are included in operating profit on the income statement.
Business Combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for under the purchase method.
The acquired business is measured at the date of acquisition as the aggregate fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities as required under IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the acquired business is represented as goodwill.
For combinations taking place from 1 April 2010, contingent consideration classified as a liability will be subsequently remeasured through the income statement under the requirements of the revised IFRS 3.
Pre-existing relationships are recognised and, together with all acquisition-related costs, are expensed.
Intangible assets i Goodwill and impairment testing Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least on an annual basis.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated on initial recognition to those cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
The cash-generating units used for goodwill impairment testing purposes will represent how goodwill was attributed but may not represent reportable business segments.
If the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment charge will be recognised immediately in the income statement and, in relation to the impairment of goodwill, will not be subsequently reversed.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
The impairment charge will initially be adjusted against the goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit.
Thereafter, the remaining assets of the cash-generating unit will be written-down proportionately.
Goodwill may also arise upon investments in jointly-controlled entities and associates.
Such goodwill is recorded within the carrying amount of the Groups investment and any impairment loss is included within the share of result from jointly-controlled entities and associates.
On disposal or closure of a previously acquired business, any attributed goodwill will be included in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
ii Research and development Expenditure on research activities is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products or processes, is capitalised if the product or process is considered to be technically and commercially feasible and the Group intends to complete the intangible asset for use or for sale.
iii Allowances and emissions The European Emissions trading scheme EU ETS has been in operation since 1 January 2005.
The IASB withdrew IFRIC 3 Emission Rights in June 2005 and it has not been replaced with definitive guidance or interpretation for CO carbon emissions trading.
The Group recognises 2 carbon allowances granted in a period at nominal value nil value.
Carbon allowances purchased are recorded at cost within intangible assets.
A liability is recognised when the level of emissions in any compliance period exceed the level of allowances held and this is recorded as a current liability.
Up to the level of allowances held the liability is measured at the cost of purchased allowances.
When the carbon emission liability exceeds the carbon allowances held, the net liability is measured at the anticipated selling price.
Movements in the market value of the liability are recognised in operating profit.
Forward carbon contracts are measured at fair value with gains or losses arising on remeasurement being recognised in the income statement.
The intangible asset is surrendered at the end of the compliance period reflecting the consumption of the economic benefit and is derecognised at its carrying value.
As a result, no amortisation is booked but an impairment charge may be recognised should the carrying value exceed market or fair value.
Where allowances granted are used to settle a liability relating to a previous period, a creditor balance is recorded for the increased liability in the current period.
Under the Renewable Obligations Certificates ROCs scheme, certificates obtained from own generation are awarded by a third party, Ofgem.
Self-generated certificates are recorded at market value and purchased certificates are recognised at cost, both within intangible assets.
The liability under the renewables obligation is recognised based on electricity supplied to customers, the percentages set by Ofgem and the prevailing market price.
The intangible asset is surrendered at the end of the compliance period reflecting the consumption of economic benefit.
As a result no amortisation is recorded during the period.
SSE Annual Report 2012 104 Notes on the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued iv Development assets Costs capitalised as development intangibles represent the costs incurred in bringing individual projects to the consented stage.
These include wind farm developments, thermal generation and gas storage projects, prospective gas production assets and other developments relating to proven technologies.
Costs associated with reaching the consent stage include options over land rights, planning application costs and environmental impact studies.
These may be costs incurred directly or part of the fair value exercise on acquisition of a controlling interest in a project.
The asset is subject to impairment testing on an annual basis until this time.
At the point that the project reaches the consent stage and is approved by the Board, the carrying value of the project is transferred to property, plant and equipment as assets under construction.
Depreciation will then be charged over the expected useful life of the related operational asset.
The asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from their use.
v Other intangible assets O ther intangible assets that have been acquired by the Group including brands are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Software licenses are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Expenditure on internally generated brands is expensed as incurred.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of these other intangible assets.
The amortisation periods utilised are as follows: Years Brand values 10 Application software licences 5 Customer lists 5 Contracts Shorter of contract term or 5 Impairment review The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than inventories or deferred tax, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
If there is evidence of impairment, the recoverable amount associated with the asset, being the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value-in-use of the asset, is estimated to determine the extent of any such impairment.
For goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life or which are not ready for use, the test for impairment is carried out annually.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost the impairment is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
For property, plant and equipment assets exhibiting indications of impairment, the review of impairment will be performed annually until there is evidence that any potential impairment loss has been appropriately recognised.
Inventories and work in progress Inventories are valued at the lower of cost on a first-in, first-out basis and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of fuel stocks is based on the weighted average principle.
The valuation of work in progress is based on the cost of labour, the cost of contractors, the cost of materials plus other directly attributable costs.
Recognition of revenue and profit on construction contracts Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured as the proportion of cost incurred on work performed to date compared to the estimated total contract cost, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer.
When it becomes probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately in the income statement.
Employee benefit obligations i Dened benefit pension schemes The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes, one of which is operated by the Company.
Pension scheme assets are measured using bid market values.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit credit actuarial method and are discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
A ny increase in the present value of liabilities within the Groups defined benefit pension schemes expected to arise from employee service in the year is charged as service costs to operating profit.
T he expected return on the schemes assets and the increase during the year in the present value of the schemes liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in finance income and finance costs, respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Pension scheme surpluses, to the extent that they are considered recoverable, or deficits are recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet.
Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 105 ii Dened contribution pension schemes The Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The amounts charged represent the contributions payable to the schemes in the year and are charged directly to the income statement.
iii Equity and equity-related compensation benets The Group operates a number of employee share schemes as described in the Remuneration Report and note 30.
These schemes enable Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The exercise prices of the sharesave scheme are set at a discount to market price at the date of the grant.
The fair value of the sharesave scheme option granted is measured at the grant date by use of a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of the options granted is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the period that the scheme vests.
Estimates are updated for non-market conditions at each balance sheet date with any adjustment in respect of the current and prior years being recognised in the income statement.
The costs associated with the other main employee schemes are recognised over the period to which they relate.
The charge related to the equity shares in the Company awarded under the share schemes is treated as an increase in the cost of investment held by the Company in the subsidiary companies of the Group.
Financial instruments The Group uses a range of financial instruments to hedge exposures to financial risks, such as interest rate, foreign exchange and energy price fluctuations in its normal course of business and in accordance with the Groups risk management policies.
The Groups risk management policies are further explained in note 31. i Interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives Financial derivative instruments are used by the Group to hedge interest rate and currency exposures.
All such derivatives are recognised at fair value and are remeasured to fair value each reporting period.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as being held for hedging purposes.
The designation of the hedge relationship is established at the inception of the hedge and procedures are applied to ensure the derivative is highly effective in achieving its objective and that the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured.
The treatment of gains and losses on remeasurement is dependent on the classification of the hedge and whether the hedge relationship is designated as either a fair value or cash flow hedge.
Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are treated as if held for trading, with all fair value movements being recorded through the income statement.
A derivative classified as a fair value hedge recognises gains and losses from remeasurement immediately in the income statement.
Loans and borrowings are measured at cost except where they form the underlying transaction in an effective fair value hedge relationship.
In such cases, the carrying value of the loan or borrowing is adjusted to reflect fair value movements with the gain or loss being reported in the income statement.
A derivative classified as a cash flow hedge recognises the portion of gains or losses on the derivative which are deemed to be effective directly in equity in the hedge reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the gains or losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When hedged cash flows result in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At the point of discontinuation, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity remains in equity until the forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
On settlement, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
ii Commodity derivatives Within its regular course of business, the Group routinely enters into sale and purchase derivative contracts for commodities such as electricity, gas, coal and oil.
Where the contract was entered into and continues to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery in accordance with the Groups expected sale, purchase or usage requirements, the contracts are designated as own use contracts and are measured at cost.
These contracts are not within the scope of IAS 39.
Derivative commodity contracts which are not designated as own use contracts are accounted for as trading derivatives and are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Where a hedge accounting relationship is designated and is proven to be effective, the changes in fair value will be recognised in accordance with the rules noted in part i to this note.
Other commodity contracts, where own use is not established and a hedge accounting relationship is not designated, are measured at fair value with gains and losses on remeasurement being recognised in the income statement in cost of sales.
SSE Annual Report 2012 106 Notes on the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued iii Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives where the characteristics of the derivatives are not closely related to those of the host contracts.
iv Net investment hedges H edges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted in a manner similar to effective cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity, in the translation reserve, and any gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised in the income statement.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any gains or losses recognised directly in equity is transferred to the income statement.
v Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
vi Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are measured at cost less an appropriate allowance for irrecoverable receivables.
vii Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All such loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value including transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, except where the loan or borrowing is the hedged item in an effective fair value hedge relationship.
viii Share capital Ordinary Shares are accounted for as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds received.
ix Hybrid capital The Group issued hybrid capital in the year ended 31 March 2011.
Hybrid capital comprises issued bonds that qualify for recognition as equity.
Accordingly, any coupon payments are accounted for as dividends and are recognised directly in equity at the time the payment obligation arises.
This is because the coupon payments are discretionary and relate to equity.
Coupon payments consequently do not have any impact on the income statement.
Coupon payments are recognised in the cash flow statement in the same way as dividends to Ordinary Shareholders.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Decommissioning costs The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the useful lives of certain assets is reviewed periodically.
Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost of decommissioning gas production facilities at the end of the producing lives of fields, and gas storage facilities and power stations at the end of the useful life of the facilities.
The estimates are based on technology and prices at the balance sheet date.
A corresponding decommissioning asset is recognised and is included within property, plant and equipment when the provision gives access to future economic benefits.
Changes in these provisions are recognised prospectively.
For offshore wind assets, power stations and gas storage facilities the unwinding of the discount on the provision is included in finance costs and the depreciation of the asset is straight-line over the expected useful life of the asset.
For gas production facilities the decommissioning asset is amortised using the unit of production method, based on proven and probable reserves.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management necessarily makes judgements and estimates that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Changes in the assumptions underlying the estimates could result in a significant impact to the financial statements.
The most critical of these accounting judgement and estimation areas are noted.
Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 107 i Revenue recognition Revenue on energy sales includes an estimate of the value of electricity or gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
This will have been estimated by using historical consumption patterns and takes into consideration industry reconciliation processes for total consumption by supplier.
At the balance sheet date, the estimated consumption by customers will either have been billed estimated billed revenue or accrued unbilled revenue.
Management apply judgement to the measurement of the quantum of the estimated consumption and to the valuation of that consumption.
The judgements applied, and the assumptions underpinning these judgements are considered to be appropriate.
However, a change in these assumptions would impact upon the amount of revenue recognised.
ii Retirement benets The assumptions in relation to the cost of providing post-retirement benefits during the period are set after consultation with qualified actuaries.
While these assumptions are believed to be appropriate, a change in these assumptions would impact the earnings of the Group.
The value of scheme assets is impacted by the asset ceiling test which restricts the surplus that can be recognised to assets that can be recovered fully through refunds or reductions in future contributions.
iii Impairment testing The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication that the value of those assets is impaired.
In assessing for impairment, assets that do not generate independent cash flows are allocated to an appropriate cash generating unit CGU on initial recognition.
The recoverable amount of the assets, or the CGU where appropriate, is measured as the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use calculations require the estimation of future cash flows to be derived from the respective assets or CGUs and the selection of an appropriate discount rate in order to calculate their present value.
The fair value less costs to sell methodology used for the wind farms CGUs also requires the discounting of cash flows from the projects within the respective CGUs.
The estimation of the timing and value of underlying projected cash flows and the selection of appropriate discount rates involves management judgement.
Where assets under review are able to be assessed independently, for example thermal generation plants, the value-in-use method will be applied to ascertain the extent of any potential impairment charge.
Subsequent changes to these estimates or judgements may impact the carrying value of the assets within the respective CGUs.
Gas production and development assets are assessed under the fair value less costs method for the respective CGUs.
This is deemed more appropriate as it is based on post-tax cash flows arising from each field within the respective CGUs, which is consistent with the approach taken by management in determining the economic value of the underlying assets.
This is determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated by the CGU, net of associated selling costs, and takes into account assumptions market participants would use in estimating fair value.
iv Provisions and contingencies The assessments undertaken in recognising provisions and contingencies have been made in accordance with IAS 37.
The Group has entered into a number of commodity contracts relating to specific assets.
Where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contracts exceed the expected net revenues from the assets in the normal course of business, an onerous provision has been recognised.
The provisions are calculated based on estimations.
The evaluation of the likelihood of the contingent events has required best judgement by management regarding the probability of exposure to potential loss.
Should circumstances change following unforeseeable developments, this likelihood could alter.
v Decommissioning costs The estimated costs of decommissioning at the end of the useful lives of assets is reviewed periodically.
Decommissioning costs in relation to gas exploration and production assets are based on expected lives of the fields and costs of decommissioning and are currently expected to be incurred predominantly between 2017 and 2030. vi Gas and liquids reserves The volume of proven and probable gas and liquids reserves is an estimate that affects the unit of production depreciation of Gas Production property, plant and equipment.
This is also a significant input estimate to the associated impairment and decommissioning calculations.
The impact of a change in estimated proven and probable reserves is dealt with prospectively by depreciating the remaining book value of producing assets over the revised expected future production.
If proven and probable reserves estimates are revised downwards, earnings could be affected by higher depreciation expense or an immediate write-down impairment of the assets book value.
vii Exceptionals and remeasurements The criteria for identifying what constitutes an exceptional item are outlined in note 1 Exceptional items and certain remeasurements on page 98.
