Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 125 Exploration and Production Goodwill was recognised on the purchase of North Sea assets in 2011 note 16.
On acquisition, goodwill was attributed to three cash generating units being the three main field development areas.
Indications of impairment at asset field level are investigated separately.
All goodwill derived from the recognition of deferred tax temporary liabilities.
The impairment test assumptions are based on forward prices of gas or oil, timing of cash flows including capital and abandonment costs, reserves information and discount rates.
Outcome of test Following impairment charges relating to a development field in the Lomond Everest CGU, the recoverable amount of all Exploration and Production CGUs exceeded its carrying value at the time of the impairment test.
While cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions applied in assessing the recoverable amount would not cause a change to the test outcome.
b Other intangible assets i Allowances and Certificates Allowances and Certificates consist of purchased carbon emissions allowances and generated or purchased renewable obligations certificates ROCs.
In the year to 31 March 2012, the Group recognised an exceptional impairment charge of 71.9m against the value of carbon emissions allowances held following the impairment reviews of its thermal generation assets and the economic prospects for those plants.
See also note 5. ii Development assets Development costs relate to the design, construction and testing of thermal networks and renewable generation sites and devices, including wind farms, which the Group believes will generate probable future economic benefits.
Costs capitalised as development intangibles assets include options over land rights, planning application costs, environmental impact studies and other costs incurred in bringing wind farm and other generation and network development projects to the consented stage.
These may be costs incurred directly or at a cost as part of the fair value attribution on acquisition.
Development assets also includes the Groups exploration and evaluation expenditure in relation to exploration wells in its Gas Production business.
At the point the development reaches the consent stage and is approved for construction, the carrying value is transferred to Property, Plant and Equipment note 12.
At the point a project is no longer expected to reach the consented stage, the carrying amount of the project is impaired.
The acquisitions in the year are summarised in note 16.
Exceptional impairment charges of 37.4m were recognised in relation to an offshore wind development project and prospective oil exploration field following review of its future development prospects.
In the prior year, an exceptional charge was recognised in relation to European Wind Farms 39.7m.
Both years impairments are commented in more detail at note 5. iii Brands Included within brands are the acquired brands of Atlantic Electric and Gas and the Airtricity supply brand used in Ireland.
The Group has assessed the economic life of brands to be 10 years and the brands are being amortised over this period.
The charge is reported as part of operating costs.
iv Other intangible assets Included within other intangible assets are customer lists, contracts, application software license fees, software development work, software upgrades and purchased PC software packages.
Amortisation is over the shorter of the contract term or five years.
