Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 167 iii Guarantees and indemnities SSE plc has provided guarantees on behalf of subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings as follows: 2012 2011 m m Bank borrowing 400.0 400.0 Performance of contracts 1,127.4 1,851.9 Purchase of gas 40.5 50.5 The Group has drawn down 400m from its European Investment Bank facility.
SSE Renewables Holdings Limited and SSE Generation Limited, both wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, have entered into guarantee and indemnity agreements with the European Investment Bank for the amounts drawn down.
The guarantees provided in respect of 50% of the major contracts for Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds joint venture project and certain other renewable capital developments reduced significantly during the year which is reflected in the above guarantees.
In addition, unlimited guarantees have been provided on behalf of subsidiary undertakings in relation to six contracts in respect of performance of work and any liabilities arising.
Southern Electric Power Distribution plc and the Company have provided guarantees to the Southern Group of the ESPS in respect of the funding required by the scheme.
Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution plc and the Company have provided guarantees to the Scottish Hydro-Electric Pension Scheme in respect of funding required by the scheme.
SSE E&P UK Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has provided a guarantee to Hess Limited in respect of decommissioning liabilities.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS On 16 April 2012, the Group received proceeds of US$700.0m 446.4m from the US private placement undertaken in February 2012 note 31.
