Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 29 February 2012 The effective dates stated above are those given in the original IFRIC 1.
Accounting policies of Stobart Group Limited standards and interpretations.
As the Group prepares its financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the application Basis of preparation and Statement of Compliance of new standards and interpretations will be subject to them having been The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial endorsed for use in the EU via the EU Endorsement Mechanism.
In the statements are set out below.
The policies have been consistently applied to all majority of cases this will result in an effective date consistent with that given the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
in the original standard or interpretation but the need for endorsement restricts the Groups discretion to early adopt standards.
"These Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations as The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and adopted by the European Union ""adopted IFRSs""."
The financial statements for interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups Financial Statements.
the Company are presented after the financial statements for the Group.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The financial statements of the Group are also prepared in accordance with the Companies Guernsey Law 2008.
Revenue Stobart Group Limited is a Guernsey registered company.
The Companys Revenue from the Stobart Transport & Distribution, Stobart Estates, Stobart Air ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
and Stobart Biomass business segments is recognised in the income statement as the fair value of consideration receivable on the delivery of services delivered Restatement of prior year Income Statement at the statement of financial position date net of discounts and VAT.
The gain in value of 5.7m 2011: 2.1m on One Plantation Place, a property asset Stobart Infrastructure and Civil Engineering contract revenue is recognised to held for sale, in our Estates division has been presented within underlying operating match the sales value of work performed up to the statement of financial profit as a result of our divisional reorganisation.
This property asset is an investment position date based on stage of completion.
Stage of completion is determined in a property unit trust.
The gain relates to a reversal of a past impairment that was by internal quantity surveyors.
The gain has been included within the Estates Revenue is analysed by segment in Note 5. division in the current year to reflect the Directors view of where the investment Functional and Presentation Currency and ultimate disposal is managed.
A comparative gain in the prior year of 2.1m was presented below underlying operating profit but included in our headline The Companys functional currency is Pounds Sterling GBP and it has adopted underlying profits.
This gain has been restated in the current year to be consistent.
Pounds Sterling GBP as its presentational currency.
Changes in Accounting Policy and Disclosures Basis of Consolidation Where the Company has the power, either directly or indirectly, to govern the The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial and operating policies of another entity or business so as to obtain financial period except as follows: benefits from its activities, it is classified as a subsidiary.
The consolidated financial a New standards, amendments to existing standards and statements present the results of Stobart Group Limited and its subsidiaries the interpretations to existing standards adopted by the Group: Group as if they formed a single entity.
Intercompany transactions and balances between Group companies are therefore eliminated in full.
The IASB issued its third omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing Business Combinations inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
There are separate transitional Business combinations from 1 March 2010: Business combinations are provisions for each amendment.
The adoption of the amendments has accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is resulted in some changes to accounting policies but did not have any measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
acquisition date fair value on the amount of any non-controlling interest in the b New standards and interpretations not applied: acquiree.
Acquisition costs are expensed and included in transaction costs written off.
The following standards and interpretations have an effective date after the date of these Financial Statements: When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs Effective date as at the acquisition date.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be Amendment 1 July 2011 recognised as at fair value at the acquisition date.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the Classification and Measurement 1 January 2015 acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IAS 27 recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2013 is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net identifiable amounts of the assets IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IAS 28 acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Investments in Associates Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability and Joint Ventures 1 January 2013 criterion are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2013 representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred IAS 12 Income Taxes Amendment Deferred and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisitionTaxes: Recovery of Underlying Assets 1 January 2012 date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised 1 January 2013 is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32 1 January 2014 difference is recognised in profit and loss.
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC Improvements to IFRS issued May 2010 Various Dates Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 60 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 29 February 2012, continued After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated Cash and Cash Equivalents impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash in hand, demand deposits, and a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the highly liquid investments readily convertible to known amounts of cash and Groups cash-generating units or groups of cash generating units that are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquire are assigned to those units.
Each unit or group of Financial Instruments units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to entity at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and hedge its cash flow risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Derivative not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which Business combinations prior to 1 March 2010: Business combinations were a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair accounted for using the purchase method.
Transaction costs directly attributable value at each reporting date.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value to the acquisition formed part of the acquisition costs.
The minority interest is is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
accounted for using the parent-entity extension method, whereby the difference The fair value of interest rate swaps are determined by reference to market between the consideration paid and the book value of the share in net assets values for similar instruments.
acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of business For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is combination over the groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable desired, the hedging relationship is formally designated and documented at its assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
If the net fair value of the acquired inception.
This documentation identifies the risk management objective and entitys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the strategy for undertaking the hedge, the hedging instrument, the hedged item cost of investment, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are expected at inception Goodwill to be highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows and are assessed at Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over the the end of each reporting period to determine that they are actually effective interest in the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities throughout the reporting period for which they were designated.
Cost comprises the fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred and equity instruments issued.
For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly as other comprehensive income in the net Goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset with any impairment in carrying value unrealised gains reserve, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the being charged to the consolidated income statement.
Where the fair value of income statement.
Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceed the fair value of transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects the consideration paid, the excess is credited in full to the consolidated income statement.
Impairment of Non-Financial Assets excluding Inventories, Investment Foreign Currency Properties and Deferred Tax Assets Transactions entered into by Group entities in a currency other than the currency Impairment tests on goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives of the primary economic environment in which they operate their functional are undertaken at least annually at the financial year end and also if there are currency are recorded at the rates ruling when the transactions occur.
Other non-financial assets are subject to impairment currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates ruling at the tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying statement of financial position date.
amount may not be recoverable.
Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of unsettled monetary assets its recoverable amount i. e. the higher of value in use and fair value less costs and liabilities are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
to sell, the asset is written down accordingly.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual rate of exchange prevailing at the statement of financial position date.
The asset, the impairment test is carried out on the asset's cash-generating unit i. e. income statements are translated at the average rate.
The exchange differences the lowest group of assets in which the asset belongs for which there are arising on the translation are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
Goodwill is allocated on initial recognition to each of the Group's cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from Financial Assets the synergies of the combination giving rise to the goodwill.
Unless otherwise indicated, the carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets are a reasonable approximation of their fair values.
Impairment charges are included in the consolidated income statement, except to the extent they reverse gains previously recognised in the consolidated Loans and Receivables statement of other comprehensive income.
Impairment losses except losses These assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable relating to goodwill can be reversed in certain circumstances.
payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise principally through An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any the provision of goods and services to customers e. g. trade receivables, but indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or also incorporate other types of contractual monetary asset.
They are initially may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is recognised at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has the acquisition or issue and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the Impairment provisions are recognised when there is objective evidence such carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That as significant financial difficulties on the part of the counterparty or default or increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been significant delay in payment that the Group will be unable to collect all of the determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for amounts due under the terms receivable, the amount of such a provision being the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss unless the the difference between the net carrying amount and the present value of the asset is carried at revalued amount, in which case the reversal is treated as a future expected cash flows associated with the impaired receivable.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted For trade receivables, which are reported net, such provisions are recorded in in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual a separate allowance account with the loss being recognised within operating value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
expenses in the income statement.
On confirmation that the trade receivable will not be collectable, the gross carrying value of the asset is written off against the associated provision.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 61 Financial Liabilities Leased Assets Unless otherwise indicated, the carrying amounts of the Groups financial Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and liabilities are a reasonable approximation of their fair values.
rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recorded in the statement of financial position as tangible assets, Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of any transaction initially at fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease costs directly attributable to the issue of the instrument.
Such interest bearing payments and depreciated over their estimated useful lives as detailed in the liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective depreciation policy below.
The interest element of leasing payments represents interest rate method, which ensures that any interest expense over the period a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is charged to the to repayment is at a constant rate on the balance of the liability carried in the income statement over the period of the lease.
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
"Where substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are not Trade payables and other short-term monetary liabilities are initially recognised transferred to the Group an ""operating lease"", the total rentals payable under at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective the lease are charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight line interest method."
basis over the lease term.
The aggregate benefit of lease incentives is Share Capital recognised as a reduction of the rental expense over the lease term on a straight line basis.
Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only to the extent that they do not meet the definition of a financial liability.
The Groups The land and buildings elements of property leases are considered separately income shares include a contractual obligation on the Company to deliver cash for the purposes of lease classification.
in the form of the annual preference dividend and, in the absence of any other Separately Disclosed Items terms that would indicate an equity element, have been classified wholly as a financial liability see Income Shares below.
The Groups income shares were The Group presents separately on the face of the income statement material fully redeemed in the prior period.
The Groups ordinary shares are classified as items of income and expense, which because of their nature, infrequency or equity instruments.
occurrence, or the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to better understand the financial performance of the year.
Own shares held by EBT Externally Acquired Intangible Assets excluding Goodwill Stobart Group shares held by the Group are designated as own shares held, classified in shareholders equity and recognised at cost.
Consideration received Externally acquired intangible assets are initially recognised at cost and for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference subsequently amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives.
The between the proceeds from sale and original cost taken to retained earnings.
amortisation expense is included as amortisation of acquired intangibles and is shown separately in the consolidated income statement.
Income Shares Intangible assets are recognised on business combinations if they are separable Income Shares, which exhibit characteristics of liabilities, are recognised as from the acquired entity or give rise to other contractual legal rights.
The liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in accordance with amounts ascribed to such intangibles are arrived at by using appropriate IAS32.
Income Shares are initially recognised at fair value less issue costs.
After valuation techniques see section related to significant accounting estimates, initial recognition, Income Shares are subsequently measured at amortised cost judgements and assumptions below.
using the effective interest method.
The corresponding distributions on these The significant intangibles recognised by the Group and their useful economic shares are charged as interest expense in the Consolidated Income Statement lives are as follows: over the term of these shares.
These income shares were all redeemed or Intangible asset Useful life converted in the prior year.
Retirement Benefits: Defined Contribution Schemes Brands Indefinite Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the Customer relationships Term of contract consolidated income statement in the year to which they relate.
Where there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which a brand is Share-Based Payments expected to generate cash flows for the Group it will be considered to have an Where equity-settled share options are awarded to employees, the fair value of indefinite life.
the options at the date of grant is charged to the consolidated income statement over the vesting period.
Non-market vesting conditions are taken into Current Taxation account by adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured statement of financial position date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
recognised over the vesting period is based on the number of options that The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are eventually vest.
Market vesting conditions are factored into the fair value of the enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
As long as all other vesting conditions are satisfied, a charge is made irrespective of whether the market vesting conditions are satisfied.
The Deferred Taxation cumulative expense is not adjusted for failure to achieve a market vesting Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised where the carrying amount of condition.
an asset or liability in the statement of financial position differs to its tax base, At each statement of financial position date before vesting, the cumulative except for differences arising on: expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has The initial recognition of goodwill expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense accounting or taxable profit since the previous statement of financial position date is recognised in the Investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the Group income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
is able to control the timing of the reversal of the difference and it is probable The Group has share-based long term incentive plans accounted for as set out that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future above.
Recognition of deferred tax assets is restricted to those instances where it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the difference can be utilised.
The amount of the asset or liability is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax liabilities assets are settled recovered.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 62 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 29 February 2012, continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the Group has a legally Rental income arising from operating leases on investment properties is spread enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Where an incentive such assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority on either: as a rent free period is given to a tenant, the carrying value of the investment property excludes any amount reported as a separate asset as a result of The same taxable Group company recognising rental income on this basis.
Different Group entities which intend either to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities Self Constructed Assets simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of The cost of a self-constructed asset is determined using the same principles as deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered for an acquired asset.
Costs include any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of Government Grants operating in the manner intended by management.
Costs include employee Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that benefits, site preparation, delivery and handling, installation and assembly, testing the grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with.
For assets made for sale or similar to those made for sale Where the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income over then the cost is the same as the cost of constructing an asset for sale including the period necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that fixed and variable overheads which are considered directly attributable.
Internal it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, it is credited net profits are eliminated in arriving at such costs.
to deferred income and released to the income statement to match the depreciation on the related asset.
Grants of a revenue nature are credited to Inventories income so as to match them with the expenditure to which they relate.
Inventories are measured on a first in first out basis and are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Dividends Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable.
In the case of interim Non-Current Assets held for sale and Disposal Groups dividends to equity shareholders, this is when paid.
In the case of final dividends, Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale when: this is when approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
They are available for immediate sale.
Dividends on the Income Shares, which are classified as financial liabilities, are Management is committed to a plan to sell.
treated as finance costs and are recognised using the effective rate method It is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the when there is a liability to pay at the statement of financial position date.
Property, Plant and Equipment An active programme to locate a buyer has been initiated.
Freehold land and buildings and plant and equipment are stated at cost less The asset or disposal group is being marketed at a reasonable price in accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment in value.
relation to its fair value.
Depreciation is provided on items of property, plant and equipment, other than A sale is expected to complete within 12 months from the date of land and assets under construction, to write off to their residual value the classification or an extended period if the delay is caused by circumstances carrying value of items over their expected useful lives.
Useful lives and residual beyond the entitys control but the Group remains committed to the plan values are reconsidered on an annual basis.
Depreciation is applied at the to sell the asset.
following rates: Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of: Buildings - 2% per annum straight line Their carrying amount immediately prior to being classified as held for sale in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
Modular buildings - 7% per annum straight line Fair value less costs to sell.
Long life plant and machinery - 5% per annum reducing balance Following their classification as held for sale, non-current assets including those Other plant and machinery - 10-14% per annum straight line in a disposal group are not depreciated.
Vehicles and trailers - 14-33% per annum straight line The results of operations disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement up to the date of disposal.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment - 20% per annum straight line Associates An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or The Groups investments in its associates are accounted for using the equity when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any method of accounting unless the investment is classified as held for sale.
gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence and which between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
included in profit or loss in the year the asset is derecognised.
Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is carried in the Borrowing costs attributable to qualifying assets are capitalised.
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate.
Goodwill relating Investment Properties to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations The carrying amount includes the cost of replacing part of an existing of the associate but the loss is limited to the equity investment made.
Where investment property at the time that the cost is incurred if the recognition criteria there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate, the are met and excludes the cost of day to day servicing of an investment property.
Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable, Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at fair value, in the statement of changes in equity and the statement of other which reflects market conditions at the statement of financial position date.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions between Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values of investment properties the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether Investment properties acquired as part of a business combination are it is necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss on the Groups recognised initially at fair value and exclude transaction costs.
The Group determines at each statement of financial Investment properties are derecognised when either they have been disposed position date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in of or when the investment property is permanently withdrawn from use and the associate is impaired.
If this is the case and there is a resulting impairment, no future economic benefit is expected from its disposal.
Any gains or losses the amount is recognised in the income statement.
on the retirement or disposal of an investment property are recognised in the Losses of an associate are recognised only to the extent of the Groups interest income statement in the period of retirement or disposal.
in the associate, unless the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 63 Joint Ventures d Determination of fair values of intangible assets acquired in business combinations and in investments in associates and joint ventures: Investments in joint ventures, which are jointly controlled entities, are included Estimates include determining future cash flows and discount rates.
in the Financial Statements using the equity method of accounting unless the investment is classified as held for sale.
e Taxation: The current and deferred taxation balances are calculated making certain tax assumptions about the tax treatment of incomes and costs, and Under the equity method, the interest in the joint venture is initially recorded at the availability of certain losses for group relief.
More details are disclosed cost and adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the Groups in Note 8.
The recognition of deferred tax balances requires application of share of net assets of the joint venture.
Goodwill relating to the joint venture is judgements over the determination of the tax bases, the levels of future included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised.
The profits and the likelihood of reversals of temporary differences.
income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the joint venture.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of f Classification of certain vehicle leases: Certain vehicle leases contain the joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses buyback arrangements at the end of the initial lease term.
The classification this, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity and the statement of the leases as finance leases or operating leases in the Financial of other comprehensive income.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions Statements requires judgement over the risk and rewards of ownership.
between the Group and the joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the g Investment property valuations: The determined fair value of the investment interest in the joint venture.
properties are in accordance with independent valuations.
The fair value is After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is most sensitive to the estimated yield as well as long term vacancy rate.
necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss on the Groups investment in its joint ventures.
The Group determines at each statement of financial 3.
Operating Expenses and Other Operating Income position date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the joint venture is impaired.
If this is the case and there is a resulting Operating expenses are after charging the following: impairment, the amount is recognised in the income statement.
2012 2011 Losses of a joint venture are recognised only to the extent of the Groups 000 000 interest in the joint venture, unless the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Employee benefits expenses excluding share based payments 178,638 165,736 Depreciation 16,269 18,064 Other purchases and external expenses 328,685 279,684 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Judgements, Estimates and Assumptions Operating expenses - underlying 523,592 463,484 The Group makes judgements, estimates and assumptions regarding the future.
Judgements, estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated Profit on sale and leaseback transaction based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
In The profit on sale and leaseback transaction relates to the disposal of the the future, actual experience may differ from these estimates and Magna Park property, which was sold in February 2012 for a consideration of assumptions.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions that have a 22.7m.
The profit realised on disposal was 6.5m, of which 5.4m has been significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of recognised in the income statement, with the remaining 1.1m to be deferred assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
and realised over the term of the lease.
2012 2011 Judgements, Estimates and Assumptions 000 000 a Impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets: The Group is required to test, on an annual basis, whether goodwill and indefinite life Profit before interest and tax is stated intangible assets have suffered any impairment.
The recoverable amount after charging crediting the following: is determined based on value in use or fair value less costs of disposal Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16,269 18,064 calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash Profit on disposal of property, flows and discount rates in order to calculate the present value of the cash plant and equipment 7,902 1,243 flows.
Further information including carrying Release of government grants 128 123 values is set out in Note 13.
Operating lease expense b Useful lives of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment: - Plant and machinery 20,269 16,556 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are amortised or - Property 15,914 15,668 depreciated over their useful lives.
Useful lives are based on the Directors estimates of the period that the assets will generate revenue, which are Fees charged to the income statement periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness.
Changes to estimates relating to services by Group auditors can result in significant variations in the carrying value and amounts - Statutory audit fee relating to audit charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in specific periods.
More of Stobart Group Limited 80 75 details including carrying values are included in Notes 12 to 14.
- Statutory audit fee relating to c Share-Based Payment: Equity-settled transactions: The Group has equity audit of subsidiaries 164 135 settled share-based remuneration schemes for employees and directors.
- Other taxation services 2 27 Employee and director services received, and the corresponding increase - Other services 138 27 in equity, are measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date of grant, excluding the impact of any non-market 384 264 vesting conditions.
The fair value of share options granted without market based vesting conditions is estimated by using a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of share options granted with market based vesting conditions is estimated by using a Monte Carlo model.
These valuations are based on certain assumptions.
Those assumptions are described in Note 23 and include, among others, the dividend yield, expected volatility and expected life of the options.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 64 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 29 February 2012, continued New Territory and New Business Set Up Costs 2012 2011 New territory and new business set up costs of 3,415,000 2011: 2,654,000 Average number of persons employed comprise costs of investing in new major territories or significant areas of by the Group including Directors business to commence or accelerate development of our business presence.
during the period 5,615 5,322 These costs include establishment costs, legal and professional fees, losses and certain staff and training costs.
The current year exceptional costs were in relation to the development of businesses in Ireland and in relation to the major new business at London Southend Airport.
The prior year exceptional costs Directors Remuneration 2012 2011 were in relation to the development of businesses in Ireland and Spain.
000 000 Transaction Costs Written Off Directors emoluments 457 659 Transaction costs comprise costs of making investments in new businesses or Number of Directors accruing benefits costs of financing transactions that are not permitted to be debited to the cost of under defined contribution pension schemes 1 2 investment or as issue costs.
These costs include costs on any aborted transactions.
The costs are principally professional fees in relation to the acquisition of Stobart Biomass Products Limited 140,000 and WADI Properties Limited Further details of the Directors remuneration are set out in the Directors 994,000.
These costs also include costs on aborted transactions 682,000.
Restructuring Costs Restructuring costs comprise costs of major integration plans and other business 5.
Segmental Information reorganisation and restructuring undertaken by management.
Costs include cost rationalisation, brand harmonisation, site closure costs, certain short term As reported in May 2011, the Group has revised its internal reporting structure.
duplicated costs, directly related management time, asset write downs and The new operating segments within continuing operations are Stobart Air, other costs related to the reorganisation and integration of acquired and new Stobart Biomass, Stobart Transport & Distribution, Stobart Estates and Stobart businesses.
These are principally expected to be one-off in nature.
The prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly.
2012 2011 The Stobart Air segment specialises in operation of commercial airports 000 000 including air freight.
The Stobart Biomass segment specialises in supply of sustainable biomass for the generation of renewable energy.
Reorganisation of the UK Transport business 1,384 - Reorganisation and integration of Chilled business 182 319 The Stobart Transport & Distribution segment specialises in contract logistics including road haulage, rail freight, ports handling and warehousing.
Reorganisation of the Warehousing business 168 - Other - 160 The Stobart Estates segment specialises in management, development and realisation of Group land and buildings assets.
1,734 479 The Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Engineering segment specialises in delivering internal and external infrastructure and development projects including rail network operations.
Costs due to Extreme Weather The Executive Directors are regarded as the Chief Operating Decision Maker Costs due to extreme weather of nil 2011: 1,830,000 include incremental CODM.
The Directors monitor the results of its business units separately for the vehicle damages and running costs caused by weather that results in a substantial purposes of making decisions about resource allocation and performance part of our fleet being adversely affected for a prolonged period.
The main segmental profit measures are earnings before interest, include vehicle damages, drivers working unproductively and fuel inefficiency tax, depreciation and amortisation and also profit before tax both shown before costs.
The prior year exceptional costs were caused by the extreme weather in separately disclosed items.
November and December 2010 in the busy run up to Christmas.
Income taxes, non-fleet finance costs and certain central costs are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
Staff Costs included in Adjustments and Eliminations.
Notes 2012 2011 000 000 Staff costs including Directors comprise: Wages and salaries 165,995 150,936 Social security costs 14,343 13,824 Other pension costs 3,439 2,363 Share based payment 23 391 467 184,168 167,590 Included in staff costs are redundancy costs of 2,848,000 2011: 237,000.
Included in staff costs above are costs which have been capitalised as assets under construction and contract set up costs of 5,139,000 2011: 1,387,000.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 65 Period ended 29 February 2012 Stobart Stobart Stobart Stobart Stobart Adjustments Group Air Biomass Transport & Estates Infrastructure and Distribution & Civil Eng.
Included in adjustments and eliminations are central costs of 5,440,000 2011: 4,986,000, intra-Group profit of 2,589,000 2011: 1,068,000 and other costs attributable to internal capital developments not capitalised in the Group accounts of 1,773,000 2011: nil.
Also included in adjustments and eliminations are central assets and liabilities excluding assets and liabilities where it has been deemed appropriate to allocate to an operating segment.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 66 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 29 February 2012, continued Geographical Information 8.
Taxation Revenue from Non-current Tax charged in the income statement 2012 2011 external customers assets 000 000 2012 2011 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 Current income tax: UK Corporation tax United Kingdom 502,465 467,623 666,663 503,432 - Continuing operations 2,877 1,683 Europe and Ireland 49,456 32,772 313 515 Overseas tax 873 138 Adjustment in respect of prior years 2,705 1,423 551,921 500,395 666,976 503,947 Total current tax 1,045 398 The revenue from one customer amounts to more than 10% of the Groups total revenue.
The revenue from that customer was 159.4m for the year to 29 Deferred tax: February 2012 2011: 143.0m and this was reported in the Stobart Transport & Distribution segment.
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,591 7,155 Impact of change in rate 3,119 1,351 Adjustment in respect of prior years 1,827 27 Analysis of revenue Revenue recognised in the income statement is analysed as follows: Total deferred tax 299 5,831 2012 2011 Total charge in the income statement 1,344 6,229 000 000 Rendering of services Continuing operations 551,921 500,395 Reconciliation of income taxation charge Finance revenue 1,980 924 A reconciliation of the income tax charge applicable to the results from ordinary 553,901 501,319 activities at the statutory income tax rate to income tax expense at the Groups effective income tax rate for the year is as follows: 2012 2011 6.
Finance Income 000 000 2012 2011 000 000 Net profit before taxation 30,546 29,467 UK income tax at rate of 26.17% 2011: 28.00% 7,994 8,251 Bank interest receivable 1,980 924 Effects of: Total finance income 1,980 924 Income not taxable including interest receivable and share of profits of associates and joint ventures 724 22 Profit on disposal of non qualifying assets 12 46 7.
Finance Costs 2012 2011 Difference in overseas tax rate 954 171 000 000 Impact of change in tax rate 3,119 1,351 Expenses incurred not relievable against current tax 2,152 1,830 Bank loans, loan notes and overdraft 4,380 3,863 Distributions on income shares - 105 Adjustments in respect of prior years 878 1,396 Amortisation of income shares issue costs - 15 Losses brought forward utilised in current period 3,115 866 Finance charges payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 1,997 1,570 1,344 6,229 Total finance costs 6,377 5,553 Included in the statement of other comprehensive income is a credit of 114,000 2011: 30,000 charge in relation to a cash flow hedge instrument.
During the year 2,745,000 2011: 2,768,000 of interest was capitalised.
The deferred tax charge in the income statement is analysed as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 Accelerated allowances on plant & machinery 78 1,242 Rollover relief 224 844 Revaluation of properties to fair value on acquisition 1,302 651 Brands recognised on acquisition 1,200 600 Other temporary differences 3,103 6,684 299 5,831 Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 67 Stobart Group Limiteds affairs are conducted such that it is considered to be On 10 March 2008, 3 July 2008 and 20 August 2009 respectively, 2.79m, resident in the UK for tax purposes.
HM Revenue & Customs has agreed this 2.25m and 2.4m share options were granted to Directors and management position.
As a result, the company is liable to pay UK corporation tax on its profits.
under the Stobart Executive Incentive Plan with an exercise price of nil.
1,395,000 of these share options vested on 31 March 2010 and are included Factors that may affect the future tax charge as dilutive instruments for the year to 28 February 2011.
979,848 and 769,577 of these share options vested on 10 March 2011 and 3 July respectively and The deferred tax balances reflected in Note 24 have been calculated at 25% as are included as dilutive instruments for the year to 29 February 2012. this was the rate that was substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Following provisions announced in the budget on 21 March 2012, the main rate On 5 December 2008, 1.0m share options were granted to a senior manager of corporation tax reduced to 24% with effect from 1 April 2012.
Although there under a share option agreement.
On 10 August 2011, 250,000 of these options is no requirement to adjust the deferred tax balances, the impact of the additional vested.
The remaining share options under the above arrangements are not rate change would reduce the deferred tax liability by approximately 1.2m.
dilutive instruments as the vesting conditions have not been met unconditionally The Chancellor of the Exchequer has announced plans to reduce the corporate at the year-end date.
tax rate by 1% per annum in the future ultimately reducing to a rate of 22% by On 7 December 2011, 35m share options were granted to Directors and senior 1 April 2014.
These changes are not enacted in legislation.
As shown above a managers under a Long Term Incentive Plan.
These are potentially dilutive 1% reduction in the rate would reduce deferred tax balances by approximately instruments but were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per 1.2m per annum based on the current balance.
share because the vesting conditions have not been met unconditionally at the year-end date.
In addition, they would be anti-dilutive for the year as the average market price of the shares was lower than the exercise price attached to these 9.
Earnings Per Share share options.
Own shares held in an employee benefit trust are excluded from the weighted Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the average number of shares.
year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary 10p shares outstanding during the period.
Dividends Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average Dividends Paid 2012 2012 2011 2011 number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted on Ordinary Shares Rate Rate average number of shares that would have been issued on exercise of all the p 000 p 000 dilutive options into ordinary shares.
The following table reflects the income and share data used in the basic and Final dividend for 2011 diluted earnings per share calculations: paid 7 July 2011 4.0 10,607 - - 2012 2011 Interim dividend Numerator 000 000 paid 9 December 2011 2.0 6,971 - - Final dividend for 2010 Continuing operations paid 18 June 2010 - - 4.0 10,607 Profit used for basic earnings 29,202 23,238 Interim dividend Effect on earnings of dilutive potential paid 8 December 2010 - - 2.0 5,303 ordinary shares - 27 Diluted earnings 29,202 23,265 Dividends paid 6.0 17,578 6.0 15,910 A final dividend of 4.0p per share totaling 13,960,014 was declared on 17 May Denominator Number Number 2012 and will be paid on 6 July 2012.
This is not recognised as a liability as at 29 February 2012.
Weighted average number of shares used in basic EPS 325,115,491 257,330,462 Effects of convertible Income Shares - 339,555 Effects of employee share options 400,944 253,479 Weighted average number of shares used in diluted EPS 325,516,435 257,923,496 Own shares held and therefore excluded from weighted average number 4,885,411 6,634,836 On 21 September 2007 1,504,120 options, with an exercise price of 166.2p, were granted.
These are potentially dilutive instruments but were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because they were anti-dilutive for the year and prior period as the average market price of the shares was lower than the exercise price.
The Income Shareholders had an option to convert their Income Shares into Ordinary shares at a rate of 0.854 Ordinary shares for each Income Share around 31 March 2010.
These are therefore dilutive instruments at 28 February 2011.
On 9 April 2010, 3,628,158 Income Shares were converted into 3,098,440 Ordinary shares.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 68 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 29 February 2012, continued 11. Business Combinations Acquisition of Stobart Biomass Products Limited Acquisition of WADI Properties Limited On 19 May 2011 the Group acquired the remaining 50% of the voting rights of On 28 February 2012 the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Stobart Biomass Products Limited, an unlisted company based in the United WADI Properties Limited.
WADI Properties Limited is an unlisted company Kingdom, which has been set up to source and distribute biomass fuels for registered in the United Kingdom and is the holding company for a number of renewable energy production in the UK and Europe.
Following the transaction, companies whose principal activity is property investment.
Stobart Biomass Products Limited became a 100% owned subsidiary The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of WADI Properties Limited undertaking of the Group.
at the date of acquisition were as follows: The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Stobart Biomass Products Limited as at the date of acquisition were: Fair value Fair value recognised on recognised on on acquisition on acquisition 000 000 Intangible assets 1,794 Investment properties 91,093 Property, plant and equipment 212 Property, plant and equipment 2,037 Cash and cash equivalents 342 Trade and other receivables 187 Trade and other receivables 1,210 Cash and cash equivalents 207 Trade payables 1,052 Trade payables 157 Other payables and deferred income 2,260 Other payables and deferred income 1,687 Deferred tax 484 Corporation tax 725 Loans and borrowings 87,692 Net assets 238 Deferred tax 111, 54 Goodwill arising on acquisition 48,665 Net assets acquired 14,417 Excess of fair value of net assets acquired over cost 2,567 Total consideration 48,427 Total consideration 11,850 The fair value and gross amount of the trade receivables amounts to 1,210,000.
The fair value and gross amount of the trade receivables amounts to 187,000.
None of the trade receivables have been impaired and it is expected that the full None of the trade receivables have been impaired and it is expected that the full contractual amounts can be collected.
contractual amounts can be collected.
The total cost of the combination was 48,427,000 and comprised the following: The excess of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired over the cost 000 represents a bargain purchase and has been recognised in the income statement, presented as credit for business purchase.
Loan notes 11,000 Shares issued 7,247 The total cost of the combination was 11,850,000 and comprised the following: Previously held equity interest at fair value 30,180 000 Cash consideration 5,150 Total 48,427 Initial share consideration 6,700 In connection with the acquisition, the Group issued 5,806,452 ordinary Total 11,850 shares with a fair value of 1.24 each.
The price was the market price at the date of acquisition.
The goodwill of 48,665,000 represents the value of the future earning potential of the business and other intangible assets which cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their nature, The initial share consideration was satisfied by the issue of 5,399,742 ordinary in excess of the fair value of net assets identified.
There is no contingent shares at a fair value of 1.24 each.
This share price was the market price at consideration as defined in IFRS 3 Business Combinations in connection with the date of acquisition.
Deferred consideration of up to 500,000 is payable this acquisition but the vendor, AW Jenkinson, will remain in the business and and will be satisfied by the issue of further shares.
The amount of deferred participates in the Executive Share Incentives scheme.
consideration payable is dependent on the level of working capital and debt The amount of goodwill that is expected to be deductible for tax purposes is in the acquired companies, as determined by the completion accounts.
No 2,000,000. provision for deferred consideration has been made since the Directors do not believe any further consideration will be payable.
Immediately prior to the acquisition the fair value of the existing 50% equity interest in Stobart Biomass Products Limited was 30,180,000.
There was no resulting gain The fair value of the assets and liabilities identified, and the provision for or loss taken to the income statement following remeasurement of this.
deferred consideration payable, are both provisional due to the proximity of the acquisition to the Groups year end and also because the completion Transaction costs related to the acquisition of 140,000 have been recognised accounts process has not been formally completed.
as an expense in transaction costs written off in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Transaction costs related to the acquisition of 994,000 have been recognised as an expense in transaction costs written off in the Consolidated Income From the date of acquisition, Stobart Biomass Products Limited has contributed Statement.
8,404,000 of revenue and 1,170,000 to the net profit before tax of the Group.
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, Due to the timing of the acquisition, WADI Properties Limited has not contributed revenue from continuing operations would have been 1,432,000 higher and any revenue or profit to the Group results for the year.
If the combination had profit from continuing operations would have been 194,000 higher.
taken place at the beginning of the year, revenue from continuing operations would have been approximately 7,250,000 higher and profit from continuing operations would have been approximately 2,300,000 higher.
Bank borrowings are secured on the Group's freehold land and buildings.
Included in land and buildings at 29 February 2012 are assets under construction of 91.1m 2011: 38.9m.
The net carrying amount of property, plant and equipment includes the following amounts in respect of assets held under finance leases and are secured on the related assets: Land and Plant and Fixtures Commercial Total Buildings Machinery Fittings and Vehicles Equipment 000 000 000 000 000 Cost  Aggregate depreciation - 3,645 - 9,752 13,397 Net book value at 29 February 2012 1,164 8,008 117 21,870 31,159 Net book value at 28 February 2011 - 4,883 - 41,716 46,599 Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 70 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 29 February 2012, continued 13.
Intangible Assets Goodwill Brand Customer Total No internally generated intangible assets are recognised in the financial names relationships statements.
Brand names consist of the Eddie Stobart trademark and other 000 000 000 000 Stobart-associated trademarks and designs.
These are considered to have an indefinite useful life as there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which it Cost is expected to generate cash flows for the Group.
The Group invests significant At 1 March 2010 171,286 60,000 - 231,286 amounts to support the brand profile and development.
Customer relationships consist of contractual relationships with customers At 28 February 2011 171,286 60,000 - 231,286 recognised on acquisitions.
Acquisition of Stobart Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives Biomass Products Limited 48,665 - 1,794 50,459 The goodwill and brands with indefinite lives from business combinations have At 29 February 2012 219,951 60,000 1,794 281,745 been allocated to four cash generating units.
Carrying amounts of goodwill and brands with indefinite lives allocated to each cash generating unit are set out below: Amortisation and Impairment At 1 March 2011 - - - - Amortisation charge - - 222 222 At 29 February 2012 - - 222 222 Net Book Value At 1 March 2010 171,286 60,000 - 231,286 At 28 February 2011 171,286 60,000 - 231,286 At 29 February 2012 219,951 60,000 1,572 281,523 Eddie Stobart Stobart Stobart Total Stobart Rail Ports Biomass 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Carrying amount of goodwill 141,642 141,642 4,375 4,375 25,269 25,269 48,665 - 219,951 171,286 Carrying amount of brands with indefinite useful lives 60,000 60,000 - - - - - - 60,000 60,000 A sensitivity analysis has been performed, at the individual CGU level, in order to review the impact of changes in key assumptions.
For example, a 5 per cent decrease in volume, with all other assumptions held constant, or a 1 per cent decrease in margin, with all other assumptions held constant, did not identify any impairments.
Similarly, zero growth after the initial five-year period, with all other assumptions held constant or a 1 per cent increase in discount rate, did not identify any material impairments.
Eddie Stobart Cash-Generating Unit Stobart Ports Cash-Generating Unit The recoverable amount of the goodwill in the Eddie Stobart cash-generating unit The recoverable amount of the goodwill in the Stobart Ports cash-generating unit has been based on value in use calculations using projections from financial forecasts has been based on fair value less costs to sell calculations using estimated approved by senior management covering a 5 year 2011: 5 year period.
The main discounted cash flows after tax and direct selling costs.
The calculations are based assumptions on which the forecasts were based include sales volumes and profit on projections from financial forecasts approved by senior management covering margins.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 8.9% 2011: a 5 year 2011: 5 year period.
The main assumptions on which the forecasts were 8.1% based on the weighted average cost of capital of the CGU, taking in to account based were the ultimate disposal proceeds.
The discount rate applied to the cash the cost of equity and debt for the CGU, and adjusting for risk specific to the CGU.
flow projections is 10.9% 2011: 8.2% based on the weighted average cost of Cash flows beyond the 5-year period are deemed to be in perpetuity but an annual capital of the CGU, and adjusting for risk specific to the CGU.
Cash flows beyond growth rate of 2.5% 2011: 0% is assumed in the calculations.
the 5-year period are deemed to be in perpetuity but an annual growth rate of 2.5% 2011: 4% is assumed in the calculations.
No impairment losses have been recognised in the period or the prior period.
The calculation of the value in use is most sensitive to the discount rate and No impairment losses have been recognised in the period or the prior period.
With regard to the assessment of value in the Eddie Stobart unit, The calculation of the fair value less costs to sell is most sensitive to the discount management believes that no reasonably possible change in the discount rate rate, container volumes and development progress.
The recoverable amount or sales volumes would cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its exceeds the carrying amount by a significant amount.
With regard to the recoverable amount.
assessment of value in the Stobart Ports unit, management believes that no reasonably possible change in the discount rate would cause the carrying value Stobart Rail Cash-Generating Unit of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of the goodwill in the Stobart Rail cash-generating unit has Stobart Biomass Cash-Generating Unit been based on value in use calculations using projections from financial forecasts approved by senior management covering a 5 year 2011: 5 year period.
The main The recoverable amount of the goodwill in the Stobart Biomass cash-generating assumptions on which the forecasts were based include Network Rail work volumes.
unit has been based on value in use calculations using projections from financial The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 10.3% 2011: 10.0% forecasts approved by senior management covering a 5 year 2011: 5 year period.
based on the weighted average cost of capital for the CGU, taking in to account the The main assumptions on which the forecasts were based include sales volumes cost of equity and debt for the CGU, and adjusting for risk specific to the CGU.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections flows beyond the 5-year period are deemed to be in perpetuity but an annual is 10.9% based on the weighted average cost of capital for the CGU, taking in to growth rate of 2.5% 2011: 0% is assumed in the calculations.
account the cost of equity and debt for the CGU, and adjusting for risk specific to the CGU.
Cash flows beyond the 5-year period are deemed to be in perpetuity No impairment losses have been recognised in the period or the prior period.
but an annual growth rate of 2.5% is assumed in the calculations.
The calculation of the value in use is most sensitive to the discount rate.
With regard to the assessment of value in the Stobart Rail unit, management believes No impairment losses have been recognised in the period.
The calculation of that no reasonably possible change in the discount rate would cause the the value in use is most sensitive to the discount rate.
With regard to the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
assessment of value in the Stobart Biomass unit, management believes that no reasonably possible change in the discount rate would cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
Investment Property The fair value represents the amount at which the assets could be exchanged 2012 2011 between a knowledgeable, willing buyer and a knowledgeable, willing seller 000 000 in an arms length transaction at the date of the valuation.
The valuation was At 1 March 2,000 2,000 performed in accordance with the RICS Valuation Standards issued by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and is based on available market evidence.
Additions arising from business One of the properties acquired is leased to a Group company, and accordingly combination Note 11 91,093 - has been reclassified as land and buildings on acquisition.
Additions 6,010 - The investment property held at the beginning of the year was revalued at 29 Surplus on revaluation 500 - February 2012 by the Directors, on an open market value basis.
At 29 February 2012, there were no restrictions on the realisability of investment At 29 February 99,603 2,000 property or remittance of income and proceeds of disposal 2011: none.
At 29 February 2012, there were no contractual obligations to purchase investment property 2011: nil.
On 28 February 2012, the Group acquired a portfolio of 18 investment properties through the acquisition of WADI Properties Limited see Note 11.
The properties were all subject to an independent valuation as at that date by Knight Frank, on the basis of open market value, supported by market evidence.
Investments in Subsidiary Companies The Financial Statements include the Financial Statements of Stobart Group Limited and the principal subsidiaries listed in the following table: Name of Subsidiary Place of Proportion of Proportion of Business Incorporation Ordinary Ordinary Activity Shares held Shares held directly indirectly Stobart Holdings Limited England 100% Holding company Stobart Estates Holdings Limited England 100% Holding company Stobart Transport & Distribution Limited England 100% Holding company Eddie Stobart Group Limited England 100% Contract logistics Eddie Stobart Limited England 100% Contract logistics Eddie Stobart Promotions Limited England 100% Corporate Merchandising Eddie Stobart Belgium NV Belgium 100% Contract logistics Stobart Ireland Limited Ireland 100% Contract logistics Stobart Ireland Driver Services Limited Ireland 100% Contract logistics Stobart Rail Limited England 100% Rail services Stobart Rail Freight Limited England 100% Contract logistics Westlink Group Limited England 100% Holding company Westlink Holdings Limited England 100% Property investment Westlink Storage & Shipping Company Limited England 100% Contract logistics OConnor Group Management Limited England 100% Holding company OConnor Container Transport Limited England 100% Contract logistics OConnor Container Storage Limited England 100% Contract logistics Stobart Airports Limited England 100% Holding company London Southend Airport Company Limited England 100% Commercial airport Stobart Air Limited England 100% Commercial airport SAI 1 Ltd England 100% Holding company Stobart Properties Limited England 100% Property investment Stobart Biomass Products Limited England 100% Contract logistics Stobart Business Services Limited England 100% Shared services WADI Properties Limited England 100% Property investment Moneypenny Limited Guernsey 100% Property investment SPD Magna Park 1 Limited Guernsey 100% Property investment Stobart Group Brands LLP England 100% Brand management Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 72 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 29 February 2012, continued The analysis of trade receivables due but not impaired was as follows: 16.
Assets in Disposal Groups classified as Held For Sale 2012 2012 2011 2011 At the year end the Board was in the process of marketing for sale the units in 000 000 000 000 One Plantation Place Unit Trust and considering available offers.
Accordingly Receivable Provision Receivable Provision these assets are classified as held for sale.
In the year a gain in the value being a reversal of a previous writedown of this property held for sale of 5,740,000 Current 43,519 3 49,354 27 2011: 2,050,000 has been recorded and is included in the Income Statement 1 month 15,281 4 19,016 - as a separately disclosed item.
Following the year end on 2 May 2012 the assets 2 months 3,996 4 6,391 - were sold, realising net proceeds of 8.1m.
3 months 3,979 705 2,327 424 The major classes of assets and liabilities of the disposal groups classified as held for sale at 29 February 2012 are as follows: 66,775 716 77,088 451 2012 2011 000 000 The standard periods for credit sales vary from 30 days to 60 days.
The Group assesses credit worthiness of all trade debts on an ongoing basis.
New Assets customers are subject to stringent credit checks.
Investments in associates and joint ventures 7,790 2,050 19.
Trade and Other Payables Current 2012 2011 17.
Inventories 000 000 2012 2011 000 000 Trade payables 49,714 39,488 Other taxes and social security 11,570 6,356 Consumable supplies 2,240 2,196 Other payables, accruals and deferred income 34,309 19,631 Goods held for resale 254 161 Government grants 128 233 Loans from related parties - 103 2,494 2,357 Interest rate swap 1,975 1,501 Contingent consideration - 5,000 18.
Non-Current Payables Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 4,111 2,186 2012 2011 000 000 4,111 2,186 Other payables, accruals and deferred income 1,625 2,646 Government grants 3,810 3,321 Current Deferred lease liability 10,030 8,512 Trade receivables net 66,059 76,637 Other receivables and prepayments 39,642 30,819 15,465 14,479 Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures - 1,260 105,701 108,716 21.
Financial Assets and Liabilities Loans and Borrowings 2012 2011 Movement in the provision for doubtful debts: 000 000 2012 2011 000 000 Non-current Fixed rate At 1 March 451 793 - Obligations under finance leases Movement in year 265 342 and hire purchase contracts 15,750 12,153 - Loan notes 7,779 - At 29 February 716 451 - Bank loans 74,828 - Variable rate: - Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 2,402 10,490 - Bank loans 78,482 69,119 179,241 91,762 Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 73 Loans and Borrowings 2012 2011 For trade and other receivables payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the carrying amount is considered to reflect the fair value.
000 000 The fair values of loans and borrowings have been calculated by discounting Current the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
Fixed rate Fair Value Hierarchy - Obligations under finance leases The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair and hire purchase contracts 9,293 18,485 value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Variable rate: Level 1: Quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or - Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 1,404 3,917 liabilities.
Level 2: Other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect - Overdrafts 4,643 35,883 on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
- Bank loans 2,512 10,000 Level 3: Techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
17,852 68,285 Liabilities measured at Fair Value 2012 Total loans and borrowings 197,093 160,047 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Cash 31,044 3,937 000 000 000 000 Net Debt 166,049 156,110 Interest rate swap 1,975 - 1,975 - The obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are taken out with various lenders at fixed or variable interest rates prevailing at the inception Liabilities measured at Fair Value 2011 of the contracts.
2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 000 000 000 000 The bank loans at the year end include a 70m variable rate Group finance arrangement due for repayment in the following proportions: 25% May 2018, Interest rate swap 1,501 - 1,501 - 25% May 2019 and 50% May 2020.
Also included in bank loans is a 87.7m property loan following the acquisition of Moneypenny Limited on 28 February 2012 Note 11.
The property loan is due for repayment in quarterly installments During the reporting period ending 29 February 2012, there were no transfers ending April 2017.
This loan has fixed and variable elements of 74.8m and between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into 12.9m respectively at 29 February 2012. and out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
The overdraft facility is secured on working capital and bears interest at 1.7% Financial Instruments - Risk Management above the Bank of England base rate.
The Group is exposed through its operations to the following financial risks: The loan notes were issued in connection with the acquisition of Stobart Credit risk Fair value or cash flow interest rate risk Biomass Products Limited on 19 May 2011 and are repayable on 18 May 2014 Note 11.
The loan notes bear interest at 7% over the full term.
3.2m of loan Liquidity risk Capital risk notes were repayed on 12 January 2012.
In common with all other businesses, the Group is exposed to risks that arise The Group was in compliance with financial covenants throughout the year from its use of financial instruments.
This Note describes the Groups objectives, and the previous year.
policies and processes for managing those risks and the methods used to The book value and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are as follows: measure them.
Principal Financial Instruments Continuing Operations 2012 Book Value Fair Value The principal financial instruments used by the Group, from which financial 2012 2012 instrument risk arises, are as follows: 000 000 Trade receivables Cash at bank Financial assets Bank overdrafts Trade and other payables Cash 31,044 31,044 Floating-rate bank loans Finance leases Trade receivables 66,059 66,059 Loan notes Financial Liabilities General Objectives, Policies and Processes Trade payables 49,714 49,714 The Board has overall responsibility for the determination of the Groups risk Overdrafts 4,643 4,643 management objectives and policies.
Loans and borrowings 163,601 163,601 The overall objective of the Board is to set policies that seek to reduce risk as Finance leases and hire purchase arrangements 28,849 28,849 far as possible without unduly affecting the Groups competitiveness and Interest rate swap 1,975 1,975 flexibility.
Further details regarding these policies are set out below: Continuing Operations 2011 Book Value Fair Value Credit Risk 2011 2011 000 000 Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
The Group is Financial assets mainly exposed to credit risk from credit sales.
It is Group policy, implemented Cash 3,937 3,937 locally, to assess the credit risk of new customers before entering contracts.
Such credit ratings are taken into account by local business practices.
Trade receivables 76,637 76,637 All credit sales are made under Group payment and delivery terms and Financial Liabilities conditions and are mostly covered by insurance.
All credit limits are formally set Trade payables 39,488 39,488 and are in agreement with the bank.
Contingent consideration 5,000 5,000 The recoverability of the net trade receivables book is considered highly likely.
Overdrafts 35,883 35,883 This is supported by the history of collection by the Group.
Loans and borrowings 79,119 79,119 Finance leases and hire purchase arrangements 45,045 45,045 Interest rate swap 1,501 1,501 Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 74 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 29 February 2012, continued Interest Rate Risk Liquidity Risk The Group is exposed to cash flow interest risk from long-term borrowings and Liquidity risk arises from the Groups management of working capital and the cash at variable rates.
There are loan facilities at variable rates as well as amounts finance charges and principal repayments on its debt instruments.
It is the risk held on deposit.
These borrowing policies are managed centrally.
The Group that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as has one interest rate swap in place at the year end.
Although the Board accepts they fall due.
See also the maturity profile of loans and borrowings below.
that this policy neither protects the Group entirely from the risk of paying rates The Group prepares rolling weekly 3-month cash flow projections and daily in excess of current market rates nor eliminates fully cash flow risk associated cash forecasts for the following week.
Actual cash and debt positions along with variability in interest payments, it considers that it achieves an appropriate with available facilities and headroom are reported fortnightly.
Working capital balance of exposure to these risks.
levels including analyses of receivables and payables profiles are reported by During 2012 and 2011, the Groups borrowings at variable rate were denominated division weekly.
These are monitored by Group management.
For the largest in Pounds Sterling.
part of the business, cash is monitored against forecast and reported to Group At 29 February 2012, if interest rates on Pounds Sterling denominated borrowings management on a daily basis.
had been 100 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, In addition, full annual 5-year forecasts are prepared including cash flow and the annualised effect on the Groups profit before tax from continuing operations headroom forecasts.
These are full detailed forecasts built up by division and would be 858,000 2011: 11, 50,000.
The impact on retained earnings, reflecting consolidated for the Group.
the after tax impact, would not be materially different.
The financial statements have been prepared using the going concern basis as During the prior year the Group took out an interest rate swap to manage its the financial forecasts support the assumption that the Group will be able to exposure to interest rate risk.
The Group has chosen to hedge account for this meet its obligations when they fall due.
The table below summarises the maturity analysis of financial liabilities at 29 February 2012 based on contractual undiscounted payments: Cash Flow Hedge Financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are held at fair value in the statement of financial position.
At 29 February 2012, the Group held an interest 1 year 1 to 5 5 years Total rate swap contract which was designated as hedged against a proportion of the years 000 000 000 000 interest cash flow payable in respect of its LIBOR floating rate borrowings.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts at 29 February 2012 is 1,975,000 Period to 29 February 2012 2011: 1,501,000.
Loans and borrowings 7,530 18,601 190,555 216,686 The interest rate hedges of the expected future interest cash flows was assessed Finance lease borrowings 11,442 18,811 - 30,253 to be highly effective and an unrealised loss of 456,000 2011: profit 107,000, with a deferred tax credit of 114,000 2011: charge 30,000 was included in Trade payables 49,714 - - 49,714 other comprehensive income.
Capital Management Period to 28 February 2011 The objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains Loans and borrowings 49,846 13,459 80,745 144,050 a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business Finance lease borrowings 23,853 23,248 - 47,101 and maximise shareholder value.
The Group monitors capital using gearing ratios.
Gearing based on net debt Trade payables 39,488 - - 39,488 divided by capital was 35.1% at 29 February 2012 2011: 47.1%.
The Group includes the following within borrowings: bank loans and overdrafts, finance leases and hire purchase contracts, income shares and loan notes.
Capital comprises equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent.
The Group uses share capital to partly fund major acquisitions where considered appropriate.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital restraints.
Dividends are payable out of distributable profits after considering the forecast funding requirements and headroom.
Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Entity Year End Issued Residence Percentage of Ordinary nominal value of Shares of issued shares 1.00 each or members capital held Westbury Fitness Limited 31 December 10,000 Guernsey 50% Westbury Fitness Hull Limited 30 April 1 Isle of Man 50% 4 Westar Limited 31 December 10,000 Guernsey 50% 4 Westar 2 Limited 31 December 10,000 Guernsey 50% Burion Limited 31 December 2 Guernsey 50% The Synergy Gateshead Unit Trust 31 December n a Jersey 50% The Gateshead Unit Trust 31 December n a Jersey 50% 1 Endeavour Ware Limited 31 December 10,000 Guernsey 47.5% Convoy Limited 5 April 2 Isle of Man 50% Starion Tottenham Court Road Limited 30 April 1 Isle of Man 50% 1,2, 3 Everdeal Limited 31 December 35 Eire 5% Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 75 1 These entities are associates, all others are joint ventures.
Share-Based Payments 2 Treated as an associated company as the provisions in the shareholder 2012 2011 agreement and option to increase the shareholding by a further 27.5% are 000 000 considered to give the Group significant influence.
3 Expenses arising from equity-settled The Group owns a 5% interest in Everdeal Limited which owns Aer Arann Group.
share based payment transactions: The shareholding represents 35 preference shares of 1 each.
The Group has an option to increase the shareholding by a further 27.5%.
Consequently the Share options - 65 Group has equity accounted for 32.5% of the profit or loss of the investment in Stobart Executive Equity Incentive Plan 290 402 line with the guidance set out in IAS28 Investments in Associates.
Long Term Incentive Plan 101 - 4 In liquidation.
Total expense arising from Associates share-based payment transactions 391 467 The movement on investments in associates during the year was as follows: Amount capitalised within property, 2012 2011 plant and equipment 495 - 000 000 Total share based payment charge 886 467 Opening balance - - Investments acquired in period - 156 The share-based payment plans are described below.
Share of losses in period - 156 Share Options Closing balance - - On 21 September 2007 1,504,120 options over the 10p ordinary shares were granted with an exercise price of 1.66 each.
The options vest over a 3 year The following information is given in respect of the Groups share of all associates: period and there are no performance conditions attached.
These options lapse 2012 2011 in September 2017.
000 000 On 5 December 2008 a senior manager was allocated 1m shares conditional upon achieving a certain target with respect to the development of London Non-current assets 10,866 11,600 Southend Airport.
25% of these shares vested when the target was achieved Current assets 4,552 5,434 during the year and the remaining 75% of the shares will vest two years after Current liabilities 5,350 4,586 the date the target was achieved.
The amount charged to capital in the year in Non-current liabilities 10,068 12,448 respect of the shares in the year was 495,000.
Share of net assets - - Stobart Executive Equity Incentive Plan SEEIP On 10 March 2008, 3 July 2008 and 20 August 2009 2.79m share options, Share of associates revenue and profit: 2.25m share options and 2.4m share options respectively share were granted Revenue 27,834 24,485 to Directors and management under the Stobart Executive Equity Incentive Plan SEEIP.
The exercise price of the options is nil.
Loss after tax - 156 The SEEIP is designed to provide incentives to Executives and key employees of the Group who are selected to participate by the Groups remuneration The unrecognised share of losses in associates in the year is 1,150,000 committee.
Participants will be allocated units, each of which will represent one 2011: 1,075,000.
10p ordinary share and will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
Fifty, forty and forty percent of the units granted 10 March 2008, 3 July 2008 Joint Ventures and 20 August 2009 respectively vest subject to the total shareholder return TSR of the Group measured over a three year performance period from the The movement on investments in joint ventures during the year was as follows: date of grant relative to a comparator group.
Fifty, sixty and sixty percent of the 2012 2011 units granted 10 March 2008, 3 July 2008 and 20 August 2009 respectively 000 000 vest subject to the achievement of a specified increase in the Companys earnings per share EPS over two, three and three consecutive financial years Opening balance 30,780 - respectively starting in the year in which the grant is made.
Investments acquired in the year - 30,000 On 28 February 2010, 1,395,000 of the EPS related March 2008 options became Share of profits in year 500 780 fully vested and were exercised.
On 10 March 2011, 979,848 of the TSR related Disposal of joint venture interest Note 11 30,180 - March 2008 options became fully vested and were exercised.
On 3 July 2011, 131,205 of the EPS related July 2008 options became fully vested and were Closing balance 1,100 30,780 exercised and 638,372 of the TSR related July 2008 options became fully vested and were exercised.
All of the other March 2008 and July 2008 options lapsed.
The following information is given in respect of the Groups share of all joint ventures: Non-Executive Directors Share Scheme 2012 2011 The Non-Executive Directors are incentivised to purchase shares in the Group 000 000 under a scheme by which they are allocated one share for each share purchased by them in the 12 month period from 1 June 2011 up to a maximum value of Non-current assets 39,256 36,218 150% of their annual fees.
There are no performance conditions attached to the Current assets 416 1,467 share options and they will vest after three years from the date of grant.
Current liabilities 10,598 11,631 Non-current liabilities 27,974 25,274 During the year, 259,368 share options were granted under the scheme.
No performance targets apply but Non-Executive Directors must remain in place for three years from the date of allocation.
Share of net assets excluding goodwill 1,100 780 Share of Joint Ventures revenue and profit: Revenue 1,573 2,671 Profit after tax 500 780 Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 76 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 29 February 2012, continued Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP 2008 Share Options SEEP options SEEP Options subject to TSR subject to EPS On 7 December 2011, 35m share options were granted to Directors and management under a Long Term Incentive Plan.
These nil cost share options Dividend yield % 6.0 6.0 vest subject to the total shareholder return TSR of the Group measured three Expected volatility % 35 35 years after the grant date and thereafter at the end of each month in the Risk-free interest rate % 4.0 4.0 fourth year after the date of grant.
No share options will vest unless the TSR Expected life of options years 3 3 performance of the group exceeds that of the comparator group the TSR of Weighted average share price 1.21 1.17 the FTSE 250 by at least 40%.
For all the share options to vest the TSR performance must exceed that of the comparator group by at least 120%.
The Model Used Monte Carlo Black-Scholes base price for the measurement of TSR is 155p.
Further details are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 53.
2007 Share Options Share options Movements in the Period The following table illustrates the number No.
and weighted average exercise Dividend yield % 5.4 prices WAEP of, and movements in, share options during the period: Expected volatility % 30 Risk-free interest rate % 4.9 2012 2012 2011 2011 Expected life of options years 3.5 No.
'000 WAEP Weighted average share price 1.66 Outstanding at 1 March 8,537 0.29 9,932 0.29 Model Used Monte Carlo Granted during the period 35,238 nil - - Exercised during the period 1,999 nil 1,395 nil The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the Lapsed during the period 1,896 nil - - assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Deferred Tax The weighted average fair value, at date of grant, of the share options granted Deferred income tax liabilities 2012 2011 in the year is 5p.
No share options were granted in the prior year.
000 000 The weighted average share price at the date of share options exercised during the period was 146.2p 2011: 147.0p.
Accelerated allowances on plant & machinery 5,811 5,889 The weighted average contractual life of options outstanding at year end is 36 Rollover relief 3,740 4,111 months 2011: 8 months.
Revaluation of properties to fair value on acquisition 5,117 17,573 Brands recognised on acquisition 15,000 16,200 Valuation details Other temporary differences 215 3,893 The fair value of the options granted without market based performance conditions is estimated using a Black-Scholes model taking in to account the 29,453 39,880 terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The fair value of the options granted with market based performance conditions are estimated using a Monte Carlo model taking into account the terms and conditions upon Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of certain tax losses and which the options were granted.
other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is probable that the assets will be recovered.
The following table lists the inputs to the models used for the periods ended 29 February 2012 and 28 February 2011.
Deferred tax has not been provided on trading losses of 17.2m 2011: 24.3m carried forward in the Group on the basis that they may not be relievable against 2011 Share Options Long Term chargeable profits in future.
Incentive Plan The deferred tax balances reflected above have been calculated at 25% as this was the rate that was substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Following Dividend yield % 4.7 provisions announced in the budget on 21 March 2012, the main rate of Expected volatility % 25 corporation tax reduces to 24% with effect from 1 April 2012.
Although there Risk-free interest rate % 0.43 is no requirement to adjust the deferred tax balances above the impact of the Expected life of options years 3-4 additional rate would reduce the deferred tax liability by approximately 1.2m.
Weighted average share price 1.19 The Chancellor of the Exchequer has announced plans to reduce the corporate Model Used Monte Carlo tax rate by 1% per annum in the future ultimately reducing to a rate of 22% by 1 April 2014.
As shown above a 1% reduction in the rate would reduce deferred tax balances by approximately 2009 Share Options SEEP options SEEP Options 1.2m per annum based on the current balance.
subject to TSR subject to EPS Dividend yield % 5.7 5.7 Expected volatility % 23 23 Risk-free interest rate % 1.82 1.82 Expected life of options years 3 3 Weighted average share price 1.13 1.13 Model Used Monte Carlo Black-Scholes Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 77 25.
Lease Commitments 2012 2011 Group as Lessee 000 000 The Group has operating lease agreements for land and buildings, used primarily for the provision of warehousing facilities to customers and as vehicle Authorised share capital Ordinary Shares depot locations for the Groups transport vehicle and trailer fleet.
These leases Authorised 505,272,670 typically have terms of renewal but do not contain purchase options.
Property 2011: 300,000,000 shares of 10p each 50,527 30,000 leases typically include rent review clauses which allow for upward revision to the rental charge on a periodic basis, according to prevailing market conditions.
Where escalation clauses are present that stipulate specific increases to the rental amount the operating lease expense is recorded on a straight-line basis.
Similarly, lease incentives are recorded on a straight-line basis.
Authorised share capital Deferred Shares The Group has entered into commercial property leases on certain of its Authorised 1,000 shares of 0.1p each 1 1 properties.
These non-cancellable leases have remaining terms of between 1 and 30 years.
Certain leases include a clause to enable upward revision of the rental charge on annual periodic basis according to prevailing market Number of Share Number of Share conditions.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating shares Capital shares Capital leases are as follows: 2012 2011 '000 000 '000 000 Property Vehicles Property Vehicles Ordinary Shares of 10p each issued and fully paid plant and plant and At beginning of period 265,165 26,517 250,788 25,079 equipment equipment 2012 2012 2011 2011 Issued during the period 88,796 8,880 14,377 1,438 000 000 000 000 Total share capital 353,961 35,397 265,165 26,517 Within one year 13,185 24,694 13,349 21,432 After one year but not On 19 May 2011, 5,806,452 ordinary shares were issued upon the investment more than five years 74,276 68,671 47,782 34,982 in Stobart Biomass Products Limited.
These shares had a fair value of 124p each.
More than five years 85,033 74 85,793 127 On 19 May 2011, 77,339,766 ordinary shares were issued following a share placement.
These shares had a fair value of 155p each.
172,494 93,439 146,924 56,541 On 10 August 2011, 250,000 ordinary shares were issued in relation to vesting of share options.
Group as Lessor On 28 February 2012, 5,399,742 ordinary shares were issued upon the acquisition The Group has entered into commercial property leases on certain of its of WADI Properties Limited.
These non-cancellable leases have remaining terms of between 1 Voting Rights and 30 years.
All leases include a clause to enable upward revision of the rental charge on an annual basis according to prevailing market conditions.
Future Ordinary shareholders are entitled to vote at all general meetings.
minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as The Deferred Shares have no voting rights.
follows: Capital Entitlement 2012 2011 The deferred shareholders are entitled to the repayment of the amounts paid up 000 000 on the Deferred Shares after payment in respect of each Ordinary Share and 1m.
Within one year 6,841 374 Nature and purpose of other reserves After one year but not more than five years 39,389 5,923 Own shares held by EBT: This comprises the weighted average cost of own More than five years 25,011 10,453 shares held by the employee benefit trust.
Foreign currency exchange reserve: Gains losses arising on retranslating the 71,241 16,750 net assets of overseas operations into Sterling.
Hedge reserve: The hedge reserve is used to record the effect of a cashflow hedge.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 78 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 29 February 2012, continued Finance Lease and Hire Purchase Commitments: Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: Min.
Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 28.
Related Parties Cash generated from operations Notes Year to Year to Relationships of Common Control or Significant Influence 29.02.2012 28.02.2011 WADI Properties Limited was formerly owned by WA Developments 000 000 International Limited, a company owned by WA Tinkler and W Stobart who are significant shareholders, Directors and key management of the Group.
WA Tinkler is a Director of the Group.
On 28 February 2012, WADI Properties Profit before tax 30,546 29,467 Limited was acquired by the Group for a total potential consideration of Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows 11.9m see Note 11.
WA Developments International Limited is owned by WA Tinkler and W Stobart.
Non-cash: The Group made purchases totalling 72,000 2011: 93,000 from and sales Movement in unrealised gain on totalling 282,000 2011: 161,000 to WA Developments International Limited.
revaluation of investment properties 500 - 789,000 2011: nil was due from and 404,000 2011: nil was due to WA Developments International Limited at the year end.
Realised profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 7,902 1,243 WA Developments International GMBH is a subsidiary of WA Developments International Limited.
During the year, the Group made sales of 12,000 2011: Share of post tax profits of associates 12,000 to WA Developments International GMBH of which 20,000 2011: and joint ventures accounted for using nil was owed to the Group at the year end.
the equity method 100 124 Moneypenny Limited was a subsidiary of WADI Properties Limited until that Net reversal of writedown in held for sale assets 5,740 2,050 company was acquired by the Group on 28 February 2012.
Up until the date Reversal of writedown of loan to joint venture 400 500 of acquisition the Group made sales of nil 2011: 230,000 and purchases of 250,000 2011: 237,000 from Moneypenny Limited.
nil 2011: nil was Depreciation of property, plant owed by the Group at the year end.
and equipment 12 16,269 18,064 VLL Limited is a subsidiary of WA Developments International Limited.
During Finance income 6 1,980 924 the year, the Group made sales of 57,000 2011: 70,000 and made purchases Interest expense 6,377 5,538 of 569,000 2011: 809,000 relating to the provision of passenger transport from VLL Limited.
86,000 2011: nil was owed to the Group at the year end.
Amortisation of income share issue costs - 15 STA 2006 LLP is a joint venture of WA Developments International Limited.
Amortisation of intangible assets 13 222 - During the year the Group made sales of nil 2011: 22,000 to STA 2006 LLP of which 32,000 2011: nil was owed to the Group at the year end.
Credit for business purchase 2,567 - Share option charge 23 391 467 Associates and Joint Ventures The Group had loans outstanding from its joint venture interest, Starion Working capital adjustments: Tottenham Court Road Limited of 2,053,000 2011: 2,053,000 at the year Increase in inventories 135 798 end of which 1,053,000 2011: 1,553,000 has been provided for.
Decrease increase in trade The Group had loans due to its associated interest, Ropewalks One LLP of nil and other receivables 4,287 22,222 2011: 18,000 at the year end of which nil 2011: 18,000 has been provided Increase in trade and other payables 18,866 1,981 for.
The Group had loans outstanding from its joint venture interest, Westbury Fitness Cash generated from operations 57,634 27,671 Hull Limited of 471,000 2011: 471,000 at the year end of which 471,000 2011: 471,000 has been provided for.
Issue of ordinary shares 119,876 - The Group had loans outstanding from its joint venture interest Westar Limited Issue costs paid on issuance of of 2,022,000 2011: 2,022,000 of which 1,922,000 2011: 1,822,000 has ordinary shares 5,349 277 been provided for.
114,527 277 Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 79 On 19 May 2011 the Group acquired the remaining 50% of the voting rights of Stobart Biomass Products Limited see note 11.
Up until the date of acquisition the Group made sales of 191,000 2011: 304,000 to Stobart Biomass Products Limited.
The Group had loans outstanding from Stobart Biomass Products Limited of nil 2011: 1,038,000 at the year end.
The Group had loans outstanding from its associate interest, Everdeal Limited of 4,111,000 2011: 2,251,000 at the year end.
There were no other transactions between the Group and the joint ventures and associates during the year ended 29 February 2012 and the year ended 28 February 2011.
Key Management Personnel Key management personnel are the Executive and Non-Executive Directors as well as William Stobart Chief Operating Officer and Richard Butcher Deputy Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
William Stobart stepped down as a director in the prior year and his remuneration as a Director in 2011 is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Total aggregate remuneration during the year for William Stobart and Richard Butcher was 515,332 2011: 427,565.
During the year, WA Tinkler made purchases of nil 2011: nil, of which nil 2011: 84,000 was owed to the Group at the year end.
This was at an arms length rate.
Post Balance Sheet Events After the year end, between 2 March 2012 and 16 March 2012, the Group purchased 4.1m of its own shares at prevailing market prices ranging between 128.9p and 139.0p.
