Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Stobart Group Limited We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Stobart In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Group Limited for the year ended 29 February 2012 which comprise Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial the Company Income statement, the Statement of Comprehensive statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Income, the Company Statement of Financial Position, the Company or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Statement of Changes in Equity, the Company Cash flow statement and the related Notes A to M. The financial reporting framework Opinion on Financial Statements that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements: European Union.
Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 29 February 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the adopted by the European Union: and Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Have been properly prepared in accordance with the in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for Matters on which we are required to report by exception our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 requires us to report to you in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement on page 44, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Proper accounting records have not been kept: Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they The Parent Companys Financial Statements are not in give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an agreement with the accounting records: or opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance We have not received all the information and explanations we with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and require for our audit.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other Matter Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Stobart Group Limited for the year ended 29 February 2012. disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Gary Harding assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Manchester the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and 18 May 2012 adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
