26 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 7 Operating Responsibly SuperGroup strives to operate in a responsible manner Since the end of the financial period the Group has and to be a sustainable business.
It has made significant launched a supplier manual.
Containing the ethical trading progress during the year and has agreed upon key projects terms of engagement, it forms a key element of the for the year ahead.
ethical trading communication and is designed to foster collaboration and transparency.
Governance and structure The Group uses audits, self-assessments, and factory visits Accountability for Group corporate responsibility sits with and work collaboratively with suppliers to continuously the Chief Executive Officer, Julian Dunkerton.
Matters improve conditions in line with the SuperGroup ethical particular to ethical trading in the supply chain are now led trading code of practice.
Information is continually fed back by the Chief Operating Officer, Susanne Given.
to sourcing and buying teams to assist with responsible purchasing practices.
A sustainability team is responsible for delivering and managing all work streams associated with the SuperGroup has engaged with other retailers, Nonenvironmental policy and ethical trading policy statements.
Governmental Organisations NGOs and trade unions in This team operates independently of the sourcing and order to get a wider understanding of issues.
The Ethical buying teams, and progress on the key issue of ethical Trading Initiative ETI board has acknowledged the trading is monitored by the Groups audit committee.
Other continuous improvement and commitment to ethical trade Group functions, including health and safety and human and upgraded SuperGroup to full membership status.
resources, ensure the wellbeing of the Groups employees.
Factory conditions The approach to ethical trading is designed to promote safe and fair working conditions wherever the Group operates.
At the heart of this are the rights and welfare of all workers in the supply chain and also the wider community.
21339.04 12 07 2012 Proof 3 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 27 7 Operating Responsibly In 2012 the Group: Recognising communities As part of the Welsh carrier bag regulations introduced Audited 61% of the main production factories for in 2011 the Group has raised 2,888 for its chosen good autumn winter 2012: cause More Trees, More Good for the Woodland Trust.
Implemented an audit programme to achieve more This campaign aims to plant six million trees across the than 90% coverage by mid-2013: UK in 2012 and the Group is proud to contribute: Provided training to key internal design, sourcing and During the year the Group contributed 7,500 to buying employees at SuperGroup: Care International, an aid agency that works globally Participated in a tri-partite ETI apparel and textiles to provide relief against poverty and after natural programme focusing on supply chain working disasters: and conditions in South India: and Since the end of the financial year a donation of Communicated the anti-corruption and bribery policy 25,000 was made to a Gloucestershire charity that and guidelines to the suppliers.
helps young people develop their skills so that they are better equipped to find employment.
Creating environmental value Health and safety The Group recognises the responsibility to minimise the impact on the natural environment and that efficient use of A key objective of the Group is to provide a working resources leads to direct cost savings for the Group.
The environment where the health, safety and wellbeing of sustainability team collaborates with departments across employees is continually maintained and improved.
The the Group to identify opportunities to reduce energy and Group also seeks to ensure the safety of its customers and waste.
Improvements implemented during the year include a To provide assurance to the board, there is a formal health continued reduction in the carbon footprint of new stores, and safety audit and assessment process, conducted by the implementation of head office energy reduction trained staff, that ensures all the premises are assessed on measures, an increase in Group-wide waste recycling, a regular and frequent basis.
including textile recycling, and the implementation of lower carbon, reduced cost logistics routes.
Details of some of Employees these are provided below.
The Group has implemented an employee assistance programme, called EmployeeCare a third party product, The Groups carbon footprint calculations are being offering round the clock counselling on a range of matters.
independently assured by an external specialist environmental consultant, providing the Group with To encourage wider share ownership for employees, a Save confidence in the carbon figures and a benchmark from as You Earn scheme was introduced during the financial which to set targets.
This has provided a secure saving platform for employees as they are not obliged to purchase shares at This year, the Group signed a contract with sustainable the end of the term.
energy providers, Good Energy Limited, to provide over 92% of all UK stores and office buildings with a 100% renewable electricity tariff through to October 2013.
This partnership supports over 35,000 independent solar, wind and water energy generators all around the UK.
In 2012 the Group: Created a new low-energy lighting solution for the Regent Street flagship store reducing lighting energy use by 68%: Reduced waste to landfill from all head office buildings by 55%: and Generated over 6,500 in net revenue through the warehouse recycling programme.
21339.04 12 07 2012 Proof 3 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction 28 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 21339.04 12 07 2012 Proof 3 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 29 Governance Board of Directors 30 - 31 Directors Report 32 - 35 Corporate Governance Statement 38 - 42 Audit Committee Report 43 - 45 Directors Remuneration Report 48 - 55 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 57 21339.04 12 07 2012 Proof 3 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
