Business Review: Additional Financial Information As announced in the prior year, the Group Basis of preparation Adjusted profit before tax increased signed an agreement with Amyris Inc to Adjusted performance by 23% to 323 million.
manufacture farnesene using assets that Adjusted profit is reported as it provides had previously been impaired at our Decatur, both management and investors with Energy costs Illinois plant.
Commercial viability of the new valuable additional information on the Energy costs for the year of 171 million process was proven during the financial performance of the business.
The following were broadly in line with the prior year year, resulting in a 7 million reversal of the items are excluded from adjusted profit: 2011 170 million at actual rates though write-down recognised previously.
results of discontinued operations, there has been a slight increase in energy An exceptional charge of 15 million including gains and losses on disposal costs year on year at constant currency.
was recognised in relation to business Note 12 and Note 37 : This was mainly due to price increases, transformation costs: 9 million in relation exceptional items from continuing partially offset by lower consumption and to the implementation of a common global operations Note 7 : and favourable input mix.
We have covered IS IT platform and global Shared Service amortisation of intangible assets acquired approximately 70% of our estimated energy Centre, 5 million in relation to the relocation through business combinations Note 15. needs for year ending 31 March 2013, and of employees and restructuring associated while contracts have been secured at higher This adjusted information is used internally with the new Commercial Food and prices than in the year ended 31 March for analysing the performance of the Innovation Centre in Chicago, and 1 million 2012, we will look to mitigate this partially business.
A reconciliation of reported of further restructuring costs relating to the through further efficiencies.
and adjusted information is included in Food Systems business.
From the financial year ending The tax impact on continuing operations Exceptional items from 31 March 2013 we will also exclude the net exceptional items is a charge of post-retirement benefit interest result from continuing operations 31 million.
In addition, there has been adjusted measures.
Year ended 31 March an exceptional tax credit of 10 million 2012 2011 Impact of changes in exchange rates which represents the recognition of a m m Our reported financial performance was deferred tax asset in respect of foreign Reversal of fixed asset adversely impacted this year by exchange tax credits recognised in association with impairments McIntosh rate translation, in particular due to the the disposal of the ethanol facility in Fort and Decatur assets 60 weakening of the average US dollar Dodge, Iowa.
Reversal of provision exchange rate against sterling which has McIntosh 23 Exceptional items from continuing reduced profits.
The average and closing Business transformation operations in the prior year comprised exchange rates used to translate reported costs 15 15 a 15 million charge relating to business results were as follows: Gain on disposal, net of transformation costs and a net exceptional Average rates Closing rates pre-disposal costs gain of 10 million in respect of the sale 2012 2011 2012 2011 Fort Dodge 10 of the ethanol facility at Fort Dodge, Iowa.
US dollar:sterling 1.60 1.55 1.60 1.60 Exceptional gain loss 68 5 The tax impact on continuing operations Euro:sterling 1.15 1.19 1.20 1.13 net exceptional items was a 10 million Exceptional items within continuing charge and the Group also recognised an operations generated a net gain of exceptional tax credit of 8 million in respect Central costs 68 million on a pre-tax basis.
In May 2011, of unrealised profit in inventory following the Central costs, which include head the Group made the decision to restart restructuring of the business organisation.
office, treasury and reinsurance activities, production at the mothballed SPLENDA decreased by 4 million to 38 million.
Sucralose facility in McIntosh, Alabama, The prior year included one-off costs of Net finance expense resulting in the reversal of 53 million of the 6 million relating to the review of the Net finance expense from continuing impairment charge previously recognised.
Groups activities, while the current year operations decreased significantly from In addition, 23 million of provisions in includes costs of 2 million associated 58 million to 25 million.
Our underlying respect of obligations relating to the with the relocation of the Head Office.
interest charge was 17 million lower mainly mothballed facility were no longer required driven by the repayment of our US$300 and these have also been reversed.
million bond at its maturity in June 2011 and lower average net debt.
The credit within interest relating to post-retirement benefit plans was 5 million which compares with a charge of 4 million in the prior year.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 22
