Financial statements: Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 7 Exceptional items Exceptional items are as follows: Year to 31 March 2012 2011 m m Continuing operations Reversal of fixed asset impairment McIntosh & Decatur assets Note a 60 Reversal of provision McIntosh Note a 23 Business transformation costs Note b 15 15 Gain on disposal, net of pre-disposal costs Fort Dodge Note c 10 Total 68 5 Discontinued operations Gain on disposal of minority holdings International Sugar Trading Note d 11 Loss on disposal EU Sugars Note e 55 Gain on disposal Molasses Note f 12 Total 11 43 Continuing operations a On 26 May 2011, the Group took the decision to re-open the mothballed facility in McIntosh, Alabama and restart the production of sucralose.
This decision has resulted in the reversal of 53 million of impairment charge previously recognised against property, plant and equipment.
In addition, 23 million of the provision in respect of obligations relating to the mothballed facility was no longer required and has also been reversed.
These exceptional items are reported within the Speciality Food Ingredients segment.
In addition, in November 2010 the Group signed an agreement with Amyris Inc. to manufacture Trans-beta-Farnesene using redundant assets located at the Decatur, Illinois plant that were previously impaired.
Commercial viability of the new process was proven during the current financial year, resulting in a 7 million reversal of the write down previously recognised against property, plant and equipment.
This exceptional item is reported within the Bulk Ingredients segment.
b T he Group has recognised an exceptional charge of 15 million in relation to business transformation costs.
The Group incurred 9 million 2011 6 million of charges in relation to costs which did not meet the capitalisation criteria for the implementation of a common global IS IT platform and Global Shared Service Centre, 5 million 2011 4 million in relation to the relocation of employees and restructuring associated with the new Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, Illinois, and 1 million 2011 5 million of restructuring costs relating to the Food Systems business.
These costs are reported in the Speciality Food Ingredients segment 6 million, 2011 7 million and within Central costs 9 million, 2011 7 million.
In addition, in the prior year there was a charge of 1 million recognised within the Bulk Ingredients segment.
c I n the prior year, the Group recorded a net exceptional gain of 10 million in respect of the sale of the previously impaired ethanol facility at Fort Dodge, Iowa.
This exceptional item was reported in the Bulk Ingredients segment.
The tax impact on net exceptional items is a 31 million charge 2011 10 million.
In addition, there has been an exceptional tax credit of 10 million which represents the recognition of a deferred tax asset in respect of foreign tax credits recognised in association with the disposal of the ethanol facility in Fort Dodge, Iowa.
In the year ended 31 March 2011, the Group recognised an exceptional tax credit of 8 million within continuing operations which represented the recognition of a deferred tax asset on unrealised profit in inventory following the restructuring of the Group.
Discontinued operations d O n 12 October 2011, the Group completed the sale of its minority holdings in Egypt and Saudi Arabia relating to the former International Sugar Trading business and received 18 million in cash consideration.
After recycling revaluation gains to the Income Statement, the Group has recorded an exceptional gain of 11 million.
e In the prior year, the Group recorded a loss of 55 million in relation to the disposal of EU Sugars.
Further details are set out in Note 37. f In the prior year, the Group recorded a gain of 12 million in relation to the disposal of Molasses businesses.
Further details are set out in Note 37.
The tax impact on net exceptional items is nil in the current financial year 2011 19 million credit.
Tax credits on exceptional costs are only recognised to the extent that losses incurred will result in tax recoverable in the future.
There has also been an exceptional tax charge within discontinued operations of 15 million in respect of outstanding tax matters associated with the starch facilities that formed part of the former Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe segment, which are in the process of litigation.
These facilities were disposed of by the Group in the year ended 31 March 2008.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 78
