Financial Statements 20 Derivative financial instruments continued Fair value hedges The Group employs interest rate swap contracts to hedge interest rate risks associated with its borrowings.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts applied in fair value hedging relationships as of 31 March 2012 were 353 million 2011 353 million.
Net investment hedges The Group employs currency swap contracts to hedge the currency risk associated with its net investments in subsidiaries located primarily in the USA and Europe.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding currency swap contracts applied in net investment hedging relationships as of 31 March 2012 were 152 million 31 March 2011 290 million.
Within net investment hedging gains, a fair value gain of 4 million 2011 7 million gain on translation of the currency swap contracts to pounds sterling at the statement of financial position date was recognised in the translation reserve in shareholders equity Note 25.
In addition, at 31 March 2012, of the Groups borrowings, a total of 369 million 2011 351 million is designated as hedges of the net investments in overseas subsidiaries.
Debt-related derivatives held for trading The notional amounts of the outstanding currency swap contracts not designated within hedge relationships as at 31 March 2012 were 321 million 2011 192 million.
Some of the Groups interest rate swap contracts hedge the Groups exposure to interest rate risk, but do not qualify for hedge accounting.
The notional amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts not designated within hedge relationships as of 31 March 2012 were 219 million 2011 218 million.
Trading contracts Commodity pricing contracts held for trading relate to the Groups commodity trading activities which are undertaken for the purposes of supporting underlying operations.
21 Financial risk factors Management of financial risk The key financial risks faced by the Group are credit risk, liquidity risk, and market risks, which include interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and certain commodity price risks.
The Board regularly reviews these risks and approves written policies covering the use of financial instruments to manage these risks and sets overall risk limits.
The Chief Financial Officer retains the overall responsibility for management of financial risk for the Group.
Most of the Groups financing, interest rate and foreign exchange risk are managed through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, whose operations are controlled by its board.
The treasury company is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and has other board members who are independent of the treasury function.
The board of Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC approves policies and procedures setting out permissible funding and hedging instruments, and a system of authorities for the approval of transactions and exposures within the limits approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Group interest rate and currency exposures are concentrated either in the treasury company or in appropriate holding companies through market-related transactions with Group subsidiaries.
These positions are managed by the treasury company within its authorised limits.
Commodity price risks are managed through divisional commodity trading functions in the USA and Europe.
These functions are controlled by divisional management who are responsible for ratifying general strategy and overseeing performance on a monthly basis.
Commodity price contracts are categorised as being held either for trading or for hedging price exposures.
Commodity contracts held for trading within the Group are limited, confined only to tightly controlled areas within corn pricing.
The derivative financial instruments approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC to manage financial risks include swaps, both interest rate and currency, swaptions, caps, forward rate agreements, financial and commodity forward contracts and options, and commodity futures.
Market risks Foreign exchange management Tate & Lyle operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risks arising from commercial transactions transaction exposure, and from recognised assets, liabilities and investments in overseas operations translation exposure.
Transaction exposure The Groups policy requires subsidiaries to hedge transactional currency exposures against their functional currency once the transaction is committed or highly probable, mainly through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
The amounts deferred in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are released to the income statement and offset against the movement in underlying transactions only when the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
Translation exposure The Group manages the foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations, particularly in the USA and Europe, by maintaining a percentage of net debt in US dollars and euro to mitigate the effect of these risks.
This is achieved by borrowing principally in US dollars and euro, which provide a partial match for the Groups major foreign currency assets.
The Group also manages its foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations through the use of currency swap contracts.
The amount deferred in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges is offset against the foreign currency translation effect of the net investment in overseas operations, and is released to the income statement upon disposal of those investments.
A weakening of the US dollar and euro against sterling would result in exchange gains on net debt denominated in these currencies which would be offset against the losses on the underlying foreign currency assets.
At the year end, net debt amounting to 476 million 2011 464 million was held in the following currencies: net borrowings of US dollars 113% 2011 98%, euro nil% 2011 35%, net deposits of pounds sterling 8% 2011 28% and other currencies 5% 2011 5%.
The Groups interest cost through the income statement is impacted by changes in the relevant exchange rates.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 91 Financial statements: Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 21 Financial risk factors continued The following table illustrates only the Groups sensitivity to the fluctuation of the major currencies on its financial assets and liabilities, as defined and set out in Note 19: 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Income Income statement Equity statement Equity m m m m Sterling US dollar 5% change 27 1 23 Sterling euro 5% change 3 11 Interest rate management The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk, arising principally from changes in US dollar, sterling and euro interest rates.
This risk is managed by fixing or capping portions of debt using interest rate derivatives to achieve a target level of fixed floating rate net debt, which aims to optimise net finance expense and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
The Groups policy is that between 30% and 75% of Group net debt excluding the Groups share of joint-venture net debt is fixed or capped excluding out-of-the-money caps for more than one year and that no interest rates are fixed for more than 12 years.
At 31 March 2012, the longest term of any fixed rate debt held by the Group was until November 2019 2011 November 2019.
The proportion of net debt at 31 March 2012 excluding the Groups share of joint-venture net debt that was fixed or capped for more than one year was 56% 2011 85%.
In the prior year, a derogation of the maximum percentage of fixed rate debt was approved by the Tate & Lyle PLC Board until 30 June 2011.
The Group considers a 100 basis point change in interest rates a reasonably possible change except where rates are less than 100 basis points.
In these instances it is assumed that the interest rates increase by 100 basis points and decrease to zero for the purpose of performing the sensitivity analysis.
The impact is calculated with reference to the gross debt and cash held as at 31 March 2012 assuming that other variables remain unchanged.
If interest rates increase by 100 basis points, there will be no impact on the Groups profit before tax 2011 2 million increase.
If interest rates decrease by 100 basis points, or less where applicable, Group profit before tax will increase by 1 million 2011 1 million decrease.
Price risk management Tate & Lyle participates mainly in four markets: food and beverage: industrial ingredients: pharmaceutical and personal care: and animal feed.
Food and beverage and industrial ingredients are the most significant.
All ingredients are produced from renewable crops, predominantly corn maize.
Tate & Lyle is exposed to movements in the future prices of commodities in those domestic and international markets where the Group buys and sells corn and energy for production.
Commodity futures, forwards and options are used where available to hedge inventories and the costs of raw materials for unpriced and prospective contracts not covered by forward product sales.
In most cases, these hedging contracts mature within one year and are either traded on recognised exchanges or over the counter.
The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the Groups commodity pricing contracts as at 31 March to the price movement of commodities: 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Income Income statement Equity statement Equity m m m m Corn 50% change 3 4 The majority of the Groups commodity pricing contracts are held for trading and changes in mark-to-market values of these contracts are taken directly into the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity from commodity pricing contracts designated as cash flow hedges are released to the income statement and offset against the movement in underlying transactions when they occur.
Credit risk management Counterparty credit risk arises from the placing of deposits and entering into derivative financial instrument contracts with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures inherent within the Groups outstanding receivables.
The Group manages credit risk by entering into financial instrument contracts only with highly credit-rated authorised counterparties which are reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
The Group has Board approved maximum counterparty exposure limits for specified banks and financial institutions based on the long-term credit ratings of Standard & Poors and Moodys typically single A long-term credit ratings or higher.
Trading limits assigned to commercial customers are based on ratings from Dun & Bradstreet and Credit Risk Monitor.
In cases where published financial ratings are not available or inconclusive, credit application, reference checking, and obtaining of customers confidential financial information such as liquidity and turnover ratio, are required to evaluate customers credit worthiness.
Counterparties positions are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that they are within the approved limits and there are no significant concentrations of credit risks.
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is as follows: 31 March 2012 2011 m m Cash and cash equivalents 424 654 Trade and other receivables 323 274 Derivative financial instruments assets 137 183 Available-for-sale financial assets 23 19 Held for sale assets 51 26 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 92 Financial Statements 21 Financial risk factors continued The Groups trade receivables are short term in nature and largely comprise amounts receivable from business customers.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups having a number of key quality customers and a customer base which is large, unrelated and internationally dispersed.
Liquidity risk management The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk and ensures maximum flexibility in meeting changing business needs, by maintaining access to a wide range of funding sources, including capital markets and bank borrowings.
Capital market issues outstanding at 31 March 2012 include the 100 million 6.50% bond maturing in June 2012, the US$500 million 5.00% 144A bond maturing in November 2014, the US$250 million 6.625% 144A bond maturing in June 2016, and the 200 million 6.75% bond maturing in November 2019.
The Group ensures that it has sufficient undrawn committed bank facilities to provide liquidity back-up to cover its funding requirements for the foreseeable future.
The Group has a core committed bank facility of US$800 million which matures in July 2016.
This facility is unsecured and contains common financial covenants for Tate & Lyle and its subsidiary companies that the pre-exceptional and amortisation interest cover ratio should not be less than 2.5 times and the multiple of net debt to EBITDA, as defined in our financial covenants, should not be greater than 3.5 times.
The Group monitors compliance against all its financial obligations and it is Group policy to manage the consolidated statement of financial position so as to operate well within these covenanted restrictions.
In both the current and comparative reporting period, the Group complied with its financial covenants at all measurement points.
The majority of the Groups borrowings are raised through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, and are then on-lent to the business units on an arms length basis.
Current Group policy is to ensure that, after subtracting the total of undrawn committed facilities, no more than 10% of gross debt matures within 12 months and no more than 35% has a maturity within two and a half years.
At 31 March 2012, after subtracting total undrawn committed facilities, there was no debt maturing within two and a half years 2011 none.
The average maturity of the Groups gross debt was 4.9 years 2011 4.8 years.
At the year end the Group held cash and cash equivalents of 424 million 2011 654 million and had committed facilities of 500 million 2011 623 million of which 500 million 2011 623 million was undrawn.
These resources are maintained to provide liquidity back-up and to meet the projected maximum cash outflow from debt repayment, capital expenditure and seasonal working capital needs foreseen for at least a year into the future at any one time.
The table below analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities based on the remaining period at the statement of financial position date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
31 March 2012 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Liquidity analysis m m m Borrowings including finance leases 142 491 273 Interest on borrowings 46 122 44 Trade and other payables 382 4 Derivative contracts: receipts 693 313 payments 699 282 Commodity contracts 21 31 March 2011 1 year 1-5 years 5 years m m m Borrowings including finance leases 229 436 418 Interest on borrowings 52 151 68 Trade and other payables 406 1 Derivative contracts: receipts 361 970 payments 346 990 Commodity contracts 5 Included in borrowings are 2,394,000 of 6.5% cumulative preference shares.
Only one years worth of interest payable on these cumulative preference shares is included in the less than one year category above.
Interest on borrowings is calculated based on borrowings held at year end without taking into account future issues.
Floating-rate interest is calculated using forward interest rates derived from interest rate yield curves as at year end.
Derivative contracts include currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps.
All commodity pricing contracts such as options and futures are shown separately under commodity contracts.
Commodity contracts include only net settled commodity derivative contracts and gross settled commodity purchase contracts with negative fair values.
Purchase contracts outflows represent actual contractual cash flows under the purchase contracts and not their fair values.
Cash outflows from the purchase contracts are offset by cash inflows received from sale contracts: however, these inflows are not included as part of this analysis.
Financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are converted to pounds sterling using year end exchange rates.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 93
