Financial Statements Financial statements: Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Use of adjusted measures discount rate to the net defined benefit 1 Presentation of financial Tate & Lyle presents adjusted profit before tax obligation.
For the year ended 31 March 2012, statements and adjusted earnings per share information.
calculating the finance charge in accordance General information These measures are used by Tate & Lyle for with the new requirements would have As set out on page 60, the principal activity internal performance analysis and incentive increased finance costs by 11 million 2011 of Tate & Lyle PLC is the global provision of compensation arrangements for employees.
Under its current accounting policies ingredients and solutions to the food, beverage The terms adjusted and exceptional items the Group recognises actuarial gains and and other industries.
It operates from more are not defined terms under IFRS and may losses directly in other comprehensive income, than 30 production facilities around the world.
therefore not be comparable with similarly as required by the new standard.
The adoptions titled measures reported by other companies.
of the other standards may affect disclosures The Company is a public limited company They are not intended to be a substitute for, or in the Groups financial statements.
incorporated and domiciled in the United superior to, GAAP measurements of profit.
The Company has its primary listing In May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 11 term adjusted refers to the relevant measure on the London Stock Exchange.
Joint Arrangements which, subject to EU being reported, excluding exceptional items endorsement, is effective for accounting periods Basis of preparation and the amortisation of intangible assets arising beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
While the These consolidated financial statements are on acquisition of businesses.
Exceptional items net result and net assets will remain unchanged, presented on the basis of International Financial are explained in Note 7.
A reconciliation of the presentation of the Consolidated Income Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the statutory to adjusted information is provided Statement, Consolidated Statement of Financial European Union and interpretations issued in Note 43.
Position and Consolidated Statement of by the International Financial Reporting New IFRS standards and interpretations Cash Flow will change significantly as IFRS 11 Interpretations Committee IFRIC and have adopted prohibits proportionate consolidation of been prepared in accordance with the Listing From 1 April 2011 the Group has adopted the joint ventures which is the Groups current Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority following new and amended IFRSs and IFRIC accounting policy, as allowed under IAS 31. and the Companies Act 2006, as applicable interpretations: Under IFRS 11, joint ventures will be equity to companies reporting under IFRS.
Operating segment results will IAS 24 revised Related party disclosure These consolidated financial statements remain unchanged and continue to Amendment to IFRS 1 First time adoption have been prepared in accordance with the proportionately consolidate joint ventures on financial instrument disclosure accounting policies set out in Note 2 and reflecting internal reporting to the Groups Amendment to IFRS 3 revised Business under the historical cost convention modified Chief Operating Decision Maker.
combinations to include revaluation of certain financial Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: The parent company, Tate & Lyle PLC, has not instruments and commodities, share options Disclosures on Fair Value hierarchy adopted IFRS as its statutory reporting basis.
and pension assets and liabilities.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Audited financial statements for the parent These consolidated financial statements are financial statements company, prepared in accordance with UK presented in pounds sterling, which is the Amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and GAAP, are set out on pages 115 to 121. functional currency of the Parent and the separate financial statements presentational currency of the Group.
Amendment to IAS 34 Interim financial 2 Group accounting policies reporting The preparation of financial statements in Basis of consolidation Amendment to IFRIC 14 Pre-payment conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain a Subsidiaries of a minimum funding requirement critical accounting estimates.
It also requires Subsidiaries are all entities over which the IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities management to exercise its judgement in the Group has the power to govern the financial with equity instruments.
process of applying the Companys accounting and operating policies, generally accompanying policies.
The areas involving a higher degree The adoption of these revised standards has a shareholding of more than one half of the of judgement or complexity and areas where not had a material impact on the Groups profit voting rights and taking into account the assumptions and estimates are significant for the year and equity.
existence of potential voting rights.
Subsidiaries to the consolidated financial statements are are fully consolidated from the date on which New IFRS standards and interpretations disclosed in Note 3. control is transferred to the Group.
They are not adopted fide-consolidated from the date that control The Group operates two divisions within The following standards, amendments and ceases.
The purchase method of accounting continuing operations: Speciality Food interpretations are not yet effective and have is used to account for the acquisition of Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients.
These not been adopted early by the Group: subsidiaries by the Group.
The recognised divisions meet the definition of an operating identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements segment under IFRS 8.
Central costs, which liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their IFRS 12 Disclosure of interest in other entities include head office, treasury and reinsurance fair values at the date of acquisition.
The Amendments to IAS 19 Employee benefits activities, do not meet the operating segment interest of minority shareholders is stated at Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of definition under IFRS 8 but have been disclosed the non-controlling interests proportion of the financial statements other comprehensive as a reportable segment in Note 4 to be fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities income consistent with internal management reporting.
Where Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Following the disposal of the EU Sugar Refining necessary, adjustments are made to the instruments presentation operations EU Sugars to American Sugar financial statements of subsidiaries to bring Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Holding, the sale of Molasses to W&R Barnett the accounting policies used into line with Disclosures on offsetting Ltd and the announcement of the conditional those used by the Group.
All inter-company IFRS 9 Financial instruments sale of Vietnam Sugar, the Sugars segment transactions and balances between Group IFRS 13 Fair Value measurement was reclassified as discontinued operations entities are eliminated on consolidation.
The adoption of these standards, amendments in the comparative period.
In the current year, and interpretations is not expected to have a the assets and liabilities of Vietnam Sugar material impact on the Groups result for the and the legacy sugar trading contracts have year or equity other than the amendment to been included within assets and liabilities held IAS 19.
This changes the basis on which the for sale.
Sugar operations in Israel ceased in financing charge is calculated by applying the the year.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69 Financial statements: Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Foreign currency translation items.
Subsequent costs are included in the 2 Group accounting policies a Functional and presentational currency assets carrying amount or recognised as continued Items included in the financial statements a separate asset, as appropriate, only when b Transactions and non-controlling of each of the Groups entities are measured it is probable that future economic benefits interests using the currency of the primary economic associated with the expenditure will flow to The group treats transactions with nonenvironment in which the entity operates the Group and the cost of the item can be controlling interests as transactions with equity the functional currency.
All repairs and maintenance owners of the group.
For purchases from nonfinancial statements are presented in pounds expenditures are charged to the income controlling interests, the difference between sterling, which is the functional currency of statement during the financial year in which any consideration paid and the relevant share the Parent and the presentational currency they are incurred.
acquired of the carrying value of net assets of of the Group.
the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line losses on disposals to non-controlling interests b Transactions and balances method to allocate the cost or revalued amount are also recorded in equity.
Foreign currency transactions are translated of each asset to its residual value over its useful into the functional currency using the exchange economic life as follows: c Joint ventures rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
An entity is regarded as a joint venture if the Freehold land: No depreciation Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting Group has joint control over its operating and Freehold buildings: 20 to 50 years from the settlement of such transactions and financial policies.
The Groups interests in Leasehold property: Period of the lease from the translation at period end exchange jointly controlled entities are accounted for Bulk liquid storage tanks: 12 to 20 years rates of monetary assets and liabilities by proportionate consolidation, whereby the Plant and machinery: 3 to 28 years denominated in foreign currencies are Groups share of the joint ventures income and recognised in the income statement, except The assets residual values and useful lives are expenses, assets and liabilities and cash flows when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow reviewed at each statement of financial position are combined on a line-by-line basis with similar hedges, qualifying equasi-equity balances date and adjusted if appropriate.
An assets items in the Groups financial statements.
or qualifying net investment hedges.
carrying amount is written down immediately Where necessary, adjustments are made to the to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying financial statements of joint ventures to bring c Group entities amount is greater than its estimated the accounting policies used into line with those From 1 April 2004, the results and financial recoverable amount.
The Group recognises the position of all the Groups entities that have portion of gains or losses on the sale of assets a functional currency different from the Gains and losses on disposals are determined to the joint venture that is attributable to the presentational currency are translated into by comparing the disposal proceeds with other venturers.
The Group does not recognise the presentation currency as follows: the carrying amount and are included in the its share of profits or losses from the joint income statement.
i assets and liabilities, including goodwill and venture that result from the Groups purchase fair value adjustments for each statement of Leased assets of assets from the joint venture until it resells financial position presented, are translated Leases of property, plant and equipment where the assets to an external entity.
However, if a at the closing rate at the date of that the Group assumes substantially all the risks loss on the transaction provides evidence of a statement of financial position: and rewards of ownership are classified as reduction in the net realisable value of current finance leases.
Assets held under finance assets, or an impairment loss, the loss is ii income and expenses for each income leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair recognised immediately.
statement including components of value of the leased asset and the present comprehensive income are translated at d Associates value of the minimum lease payments.
The weighted average exchange rates as a An entity is regarded as an associate if the corresponding leasing commitments, net reasonable approximation to the rates Group has significant influence, but not control, of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
prevailing on the transaction dates: and over its operating and financial policies.
Leasing payments are analysed between Significant influence generally exists where the iii a ll resulting exchange differences are capital and interest components so that the Group holds more than 20% and less than 50% recognised as a separate component interest element is charged to the income of the shareholders voting rights.
statement over the period of the lease at a are accounted for under the equity method Prior to 1 April 2004, exchange differences constant periodic rate of interest on the whereby the Groups income statement were recognised in retained earnings.
remaining balance of the liability outstanding.
includes its share of their profits and losses and the Groups statement of financial position On consolidation, exchange differences Depreciation on assets held under finance includes its share of their net assets.
Where arising from borrowings and other currency leases is charged to the income statement, necessary, adjustments are made to the instruments designated as hedges of such and depreciated over the shorter of the lease financial statements of associates to bring the investments, are taken to equity.
accounting policies used into line with those When a foreign operation is sold, such All other leases are treated as operating leases used by the Group.
When the Groups share exchange differences that have accumulated with annual rentals charged to the income of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its since 1 April 2004 are recognised in the income statement, net of any incentives granted to interest in the associate, including any other statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
the lessee, over the term of the lease with unsecured receivables, the Group does not These exchange differences comprise the incentives recognised over the period of the recognise further losses, unless it has incurred exchange differences on all amounts deemed lease at a constant periodic rate.
obligations or made payments on behalf of the to be part of the net investment in the foreign associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions Intangible assets operation, which are recycled to the income between the group and its associates are a Goodwill statement when a disposal occurs.
eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest Goodwill is calculated as the difference in the associate.
Unrealised losses are also Property, plant and equipment between the fair value of the consideration eliminated on the same basis unless the Land and buildings mainly comprise exchanged in a business combination, transaction provides evidence of an impairment manufacturing sites and administrative facilities.
excluding directly attributable acquisition costs, of the asset transferred.
The Groups share and the net fair values of the identifiable assets of post-acquisition movements in other Property, plant and equipment is stated at and liabilities acquired and is capitalised if comprehensive income is recognised in other historical cost less depreciation and impairment.
Where the acquired interest in the net comprehensive income.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities directly attributable to the acquisition of the Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 70 Financial Statements amounts may not be recoverable.
An e Commodity and treasury hedging 2 Group accounting policies impairment loss is recognised for the amount instruments continued by which the assets carrying amount exceeds Under IAS 39, hedging relationships are exceeds the cost of the business combination, its recoverable amount.
Non-financial assets categorised by type and must meet strict the excess is recognised immediately in the other than goodwill that suffered an impairment criteria to qualify for hedge accounting.
Goodwill is tested for in previous periods are reviewed for possible i Cash flow hedges impairment annually and whenever there is reversal of the impairment at each reporting Hedges of firm commitments and highly an indication of impairment and is carried at date.
The recoverable amount is the higher probable forecast transactions, including cost less accumulated impairment losses.
of an assets fair value less costs to sell and forecast intra-group transactions that are value in use.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business expected to affect consolidated profit or component include the carrying amount of For the purposes of assessing impairment, loss, are designated as cash flow hedges.
goodwill relating to the entity sold.
assets other than goodwill are grouped at the To the extent that movements in the fair lowest levels for which there are separately values of these instruments effectively offset Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units identifiable cash inflows cash-generating units.
the underlying risk being hedged they are for the purpose of impairment testing.
The Goodwill is allocated to units expected to recognised in other comprehensive income allocation is made to those cash generating benefit from the synergies of the business until the period during which the hedged units or groups of cash-generating units that combinations.
Further details are given forecast transaction affects profit or loss, are expected to benefit from the business in Note 3. at which point the cumulative gain or loss combination in which the goodwill arose.
is recognised in operating profit, offsetting Financial instruments the value of the hedged transaction.
b Patents and other intellectual property a Available-for-sale financial assets Patents and other intellectual property are Equity instruments held by the Group and ii Fair value hedges shown at historical cost less accumulated designated as available-for-sale are carried Hedges against the movement in fair value amortisation and impairment losses.
Where at fair value, with movements in fair value of recognised assets and liabilities are the assets are acquired as part of a business recognised directly in equity.
Where fair value designated as fair value hedges.
To the combination, historical cost is based on their cannot be reliably measured, the assets are extent that movements in the fair values fair values as at the date of the combination.
Cumulative fair value of these instruments effectively offset the Amortisation of the assets is recognised gains or losses on an asset are recycled through underlying risk being hedged, they are on a straight-line basis over the period of the income statement when the asset is recognised in net finance expense by their expected benefit which ranges from disposed or impaired.
A significant or prolonged offset against the hedged transaction.
decline in the fair value of the security below iii Hedges of net investments its cost is considered as an indicator that the c Other acquired intangible assets Hedges of a net investment in a foreign securities are impaired.
Impairments are Other acquired intangible assets are intangible operation are designated as net investment recognised in the income statement.
assets arising on consolidation of acquired hedges.
To the extent that movements in the businesses and include brands, recipes, b Loans and receivables fair values of these instruments effectively customer relationships and supplier networks.
Non-current and current receivables and loans offset the underlying risk being hedged, they Amortisation of the assets is recognised granted are recognised initially at fair value are recognised in the translation reserve until on a straight-line basis over the period of and thereafter carried at amortised cost less the period during which a foreign operation their expected benefit which ranges from provisions for impairment.
Movements in is disposed of or partially disposed of, at 3 to 15 years.
carrying value are recognised in the income which point the cumulative gain or loss is statement.
recognised in profit or loss, offsetting the d Other intangible assets cumulative difference recognised on the Other intangible assets mainly include certain c Borrowings translation of the net investment.
development expenditure and software costs.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, Costs incurred on development projects net of transaction costs incurred.
Where Hedge accounting is discontinued at the relating to the development design and testing borrowings are designated as hedged items point when the hedging relationship no longer of new or improved products are recognised as under fair value hedges, they are subsequently qualifies for hedge accounting.
In the case of intangible assets when the IAS 38 recognition remeasured for fair value changes in respect of cash flow hedging relationships, the cumulative criteria are met.
Capitalised development costs the hedged risk with such changes recognised movement in the fair value of the hedging are amortised from the commencement of in the income statement.
Otherwise, borrowings instrument previously recognised in equity up the commercial production of the product are subsequently stated at amortised cost: to that point is retained there until the forecast on a straight-line basis over the period of any difference between the proceeds net of transaction affects profit or loss, unless the its expected benefit.
Research and other transaction costs and the redemption value is hedged transaction is no longer expected to development expenditures are recognised as recognised in the income statement over the occur, in which case the cumulative movement an expense as incurred.
Development costs period of the borrowings using the effective in fair value is transferred to profit or loss previously recognised as an expense are not interest rate method.
Movements in the fair value of recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
as current liabilities unless the Group has an hedging instruments where the relationship fails Amortisation of the assets is recognised on unconditional right to defer settlement of the to meet the IAS 39 hedge accounting criteria or a straight-line basis over the period of their liability for at least 12 months after the where the movement represents the ineffective expected benefit which ranges from 3 to 7 years.
statement of financial position date.
Preference portion of a qualifying hedging relationship shares, which are mandatorily redeemable are recognised in the income statement Impairment on a specific date, are classified as liabilities.
immediately as other income and expense Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not The dividends on these preference shares or net finance expense, as appropriate.
subject to amortisation and are tested at least are recognised in the income statement as annually for impairment.
No intangible assets interest expense.
other than goodwill have an indefinite life.
In addition, assets in the course of construction d Derivatives held for trading are not depreciated and are subject to annual Commodity instruments acquired for trading impairment review where there is an indication purposes are initially recognised at fair value of impairment.
Assets that are subject to on the date a derivative contract is entered into amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for and are subsequently re-measured at their fair impairment whenever events or changes in value.
Movements in fair value are recognised circumstances indicate that their carrying in the income statement.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71 Financial statements: Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Cash and cash equivalents Deferred tax is accounted for using the 2 Group accounting policies Cash and cash equivalents include cash in statement of financial position liability method continued hand, deposits held at call with banks and other in respect of temporary differences arising from f Embedded derivatives short-term highly liquid investments with original differences between the carrying amount of Where an embedded derivative is not closely maturities of three months or less and, for the assets and liabilities in the financial statements related to the host contract and where the host purposes of the cash flow statement only, bank and the corresponding tax basis used in the contract itself is not already recognised at fair overdrafts where the legal right of offset exists.
In principle, value, movements in the fair value of the deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all embedded derivative are separated from the Share capital taxable temporary differences except as noted associated transaction and, except where the Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
below and deferred tax assets are recognised embedded derivative is designated as a cash Incremental costs directly attributable to the to the extent that it is probable that taxable flow hedging instrument, recognised in the issue of new shares are shown in equity as profits will be available against which deductible income statement.
a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
temporary differences can be utilised.
Such g Fair values assets and liabilities are not recognised if the Where any Group company purchases the Fair values are based on market values where temporary differences arise from goodwill Companys equity share capital and holds they are available.
For unlisted securities the or from the initial recognition other than in that share either directly as treasury shares Group establishes fair value using valuation a business combination of other assets and or indirectly within an ESOP trust, the techniques.
These include the use of recent liabilities in a transaction which affects neither consideration paid, including any directly arms length transactions, reference to other the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
attributable incremental costs net of income similar instruments and discounted cash taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for flow analysis.
the Companys owners until the shares are taxable temporary differences arising on cancelled, reissued or disposed.
Where such Where no market prices are available, the fair investments in subsidiaries and associates, shares are subsequently sold or reissued, value of financial liabilities is calculated with and interests in joint ventures, except where any consideration received, net of any directly reference to discounted expected future the Group is able to control the reversal of the attributable incremental transaction costs and cash flows.
temporary difference and it is probable that the related income tax effects, is included in the temporary difference will not reverse in Inventories equity attributable to the Companys owners.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost These shares are used to satisfy share options and net realisable value with the exception of and long term share incentive plans granted Deferred tax is calculated using the enacted or certain items of merchandisable agricultural to employees under the Groups share option substantively enacted rates that are expected commodities which are stated at market schemes.
The trustee of the ESOP trust to apply when the asset or liability is settled.
value, in line with regional industry purchases the Companys shares on the open Deferred tax is charged or credited in the accounting practices.
market using loans made by the Company income statement, except when it relates to or other loans guaranteed by the Company.
items credited or charged directly to equity, Cost comprises direct materials and, where in which case the deferred tax is also dealt applicable, direct labour costs and those Trade payables with in equity.
overheads that have been incurred in bringing Non-current and current trade payables the inventories to their present location and are recognised initially at fair value and Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset condition.
Cost is calculated using the first in subsequently measured at amortised cost when they relate to income taxes levied by the first out or weighted average cost methods, using the effective interest rate method, less same taxation authority and the Group intends appropriate to the materials and production provision for impairment.
to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on processes involved.
Net realisable value a net basis.
Provisions represents the estimated selling price less all Provisions for liabilities and charges are Revenue recognition estimated costs to completion and costs to be recognised when the Group has a present legal a Sales of goods and services incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
or constructive obligation as a result of past Sales comprise the amount receivable in the Trade receivables events, it is more likely than not that an outflow ordinary course of business, net of value added Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair of resources will be required to settle the and sales taxes, for goods and services value and subsequently measured at amortised obligation and the amount can be reliably provided.
Sales are recognised at the point or cost using the effective interest method, less measured.
If the effect is material, provisions points at which the Group has performed its provision for impairment.
A provision for are measured using expected future cash flows obligations in connection with the contractual impairment of trade receivables is established discounted at a pre-tax rate that reflects current terms of the sales agreement primarily at the when there is objective evidence that the market assessments of the time value of money point of delivering to the customer, and in group will not be able to collect all amounts and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the exchange obtains the right to consideration.
due according to the original terms of the liability.
The impact of unwinding any discount b Interest income receivables.
Significant financial difficulties is taken to finance expense.
Interest income is recognised on a timeof the debtor, probability that the debtor will Provisions are not recognised for future proportion basis using the effective interest enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, operating losses.
A provision for onerous rate method.
and default or delinquency in payments are contracts is recognised when the expected considered indicators that the trade receivable c Dividend income benefits to be derived by the Group from a is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the Dividend income is recognised when the right contract are lower than the unavoidable cost difference between the assets carrying amount to receive payment is established.
of meeting its obligations under the contract.
and the present value of estimated future cash Employee benefits flows, discounted at the original effective Income taxes a Pension obligations interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset The charge for current tax is based on the Group companies operate various pension is reduced through the use of an allowance results for the year as adjusted for items which schemes.
The schemes are generally funded account, and the amount of the loss is are non-taxable or disallowed.
It is calculated through payments to insurance companies, recognised in the income statement within using rates that have been enacted or or trustee payments to insurance companies operating costs.
When a trade receivable substantively enacted by the statement or through trustee-administered funds, is uncollectible, it is written off against the of financial position date.
determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
allowance account for trade receivables.
The Group has both defined benefit and Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously defined contribution plans.
written off are credited against operating costs in the income statement.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 72
