Financial statements: Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 35 Contingent liabilities Trade guarantees 31 March 2012 2011 m m Trade guarantees 1 1 Trade guarantees have been given in the normal course of business by the Group at both 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011.
These are in respect of Revenue and Customs and the Rural Payments Agency for Agricultural Produce bonds, ECGD recourse agreements, letters of credit and tender and performance bonds.
Sale of EU Sugars In May 2011, the Group announced that the process to agree completion statements on the sale of EU Sugars to American Sugar Holdings ASR was ongoing and that items totalling 54 million were outstanding and were expected to be submitted for adjudication by an independent expert.
Those items related to the impact of major turbulence in the supply of raw sugar to the EU during the period prior to closing which resulted in an increase in certain rolling re-export commitments of the business arising under the EU Sugar Regime.
The experts decision, notified to the parties on 8 May 2012, strongly supported the Groups position and as a result, substantially all of the working capital adjustments proposed by ASR were reversed, and there is no further adjustment to the loss on disposal previously recognised.
The experts decision is final and binding on both parties and therefore finalises the completion statements.
Separately, ASR has set out a number of claims it believes it has under certain other provisions of the Sale and Purchase Agreement.
These claims have not been fully quantified, but in large part also relate to the turbulence in the supply of raw sugar to the EU during the period prior to closing and the increase in certain rolling re-export commitments of the business.
The claims notified by ASR, and the validity of the notification itself, are under review by our legal advisers.
Whitefox Technologies Whitefox Technologies Whitefox supplied certain equipment and technology intended for use in certain of the Groups ethanol production facilities in 2007 which the Group believes was not fit for purpose.
Tate & Lyle is seeking damages from Whitefox of approximately US$20 million.
Whitefox claims damages exceeding 100 million for breach of contract, damage to certain equipment and other losses.
The dispute with Whitefox has been listed for a jury trial in the Supreme Court of the State of New York in June 2012.
Whilst we are confident in the merits of our legal position, given that this is a jury trial, the outcome is uncertain.
Other claims In addition to the above, the Group is subject to claims and litigation generally arising in the ordinary course of its business, some of which are for substantial amounts.
Such claims and litigation are strenuously defended, but provision is made for liabilities that are considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice and after taking into account the Groups insurance arrangements.
While there is always uncertainty as to the outcome of any claim or litigation, it is not expected that claims and litigation existing at the statement of financial position date will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
36 Commitments Capital commitments 31 March 2012 2011 m m Commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets 10 9 Commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 21 15 Total 31 24 Operating lease arrangements Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its land, buildings, plant and equipment.
Certain operating lease agreements allow for renewal at the end of the original term at the option of the Group.
At the statement of financial position date the Group has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases which fall due as follows: 31 March 2012 2011 m m Within one year 31 24 Later than one year and no later than five years 79 68 After five years 95 81 Total 205 173 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 108
