Financial Statements Financial statements: Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC We have audited the Group financial statements Scope of the audit of the financial Matters on which we are required to report statements by exception of Tate & Lyle PLC for the year ended 31 March 2012 which comprise the Consolidated income An audit involves obtaining evidence about We have nothing to report in respect of the the amounts and disclosures in the financial following: statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated statements sufficient to give reasonable Under the Companies Act 2006 we are assurance that the financial statements are free statement of financial position, the Consolidated required to report to you if, in our opinion: statement of cash flows, the Consolidated from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: statement of changes in shareholders equity certain disclosures of Directors and the related Notes to the consolidated whether the accounting policies are appropriate remuneration specified by law are not made: to the Groups circumstances and have been financial statements.
The financial reporting or framework that has been applied in their consistently applied and adequately disclosed: we have not received all the information the reasonableness of significant accounting preparation is applicable law and International and explanations we require for our audit.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as estimates made by the Directors: and the Under the Listing Rules we are required overall presentation of the financial statements.
adopted by the European Union.
to review: In addition, we read all the financial and Respective responsibilities of directors nonfinancial information in the Annual Report the Directors statement, set out on page and auditors 2012 to identify material inconsistencies with 26, in relation to going concern: As explained more fully in the Directors the audited financial statements.
If we become the part of the Corporate governance statement of responsibilities set out on page 62, aware of any apparent material misstatement statement relating to the Companys the Directors are responsible for the preparation or inconsistencies we consider the implications compliance with the nine provisions of the of the Group financial statements and for being for our report.
UK Corporate Governance Code specified satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
for our review: and Opinion on financial statements Our responsibility is to audit and express an certain elements of the report to opinion on the Group financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: shareholders by the Board on Directors in accordance with applicable law and give a true and fair view of the state of the remuneration.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Groups affairs as at 31 March 2012 and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Other matter of its profit and cash flows for the year with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical We have reported separately at page 115 on then ended: Standards for Auditors.
the Parent company financial statements of have been properly prepared in accordance Tate & Lyle PLC for the year ended 31 March This report, including the opinions, has been with IFRSs as adopted by the European 2012 and on the information in the Directors prepared for and only for the Companys Union: and remuneration report that is described as having members as a body in accordance with have been prepared in accordance with the been audited.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act requirements of the Companies Act 2006 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
in giving these opinions, accept or assume Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor Opinion on other matter prescribed by the responsibility for any other purpose or to any for and on behalf of Companies Act 2006 other person to whom this report is shown or  LLP In our opinion the information given in the into whose hands it may come save where Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Directors report for the financial year for which expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
London the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
30 May 2012 Note: a the maintenance and integrity of the Tate & Lyle PLC website, and any other electronic media used to present the financial statements, is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website or any other electronic media.
b l egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63
