Financial Statements is usually conditional on the employee Dividend distribution 2 Group accounting policies remaining in service up to retirement age and Final dividend distributions to the Companys continued the completion of a minimum service period.
owners are recognised as a liability in the A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that The expected costs of these benefits are Groups financial statements in the period defines an amount of pension benefit that an accrued over the period of employment using in which the dividends are approved by the employee will receive on retirement, usually an accounting methodology similar to that for Companys shareholders, while interim dividend dependent on one or more factors such as age, defined benefit pension plans.
Actuarial gains distributions are recognised in the period in years of service and compensation.
and losses arising from experience adjustments which the dividends are declared and paid.
and changes in actuarial assumptions are Where a scrip alternative is offered and taken, A defined contribution plan is a pension plan charged or credited immediately to the the distribution is effected through an issue under which the Group pays fixed contributions consolidated statement of comprehensive of bonus shares.
The Group has no legal income.
These obligations are valued annually or constructive obligations to pay further Segment reporting by independent qualified actuaries.
contributions once these contributions have IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires that been paid.
c Share-based compensation entities identify and report the financial The Group operates a number of equity-settled, performance of these operating segments.
The amounts recognised in the statement of share-based compensation plans.
The fair Segment information is reported for those financial position in respect of defined benefit value of employee services received in components for which separate financial pension plans are the net deficit or the net exchange for the grant of the options is information is available and which management surplus being the present value of the defined recognised as an expense.
The total amount uses internally for allocating resources and benefit obligation at the statement of financial to be expensed over the vesting period is assessing performance.
In addition to receiving position date less the fair value of plan assets, determined by reference to the fair value of the information relating to the operating performance together with adjustments for actuarial gains or options granted, excluding the impact of any of the business, principally sales and adjusted losses charged or credited to equity and past non-market vesting conditions for example, operating performance, the Chief Operating service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is earnings targets.
Non-market vesting Decision Maker, which is determined to be the calculated annually by independent qualified conditions are included in assumptions about Board, receives information on the segmental actuaries using the projected unit credit the number of options that are expected to net working capital in order to assess the method.
The present value of the defined become exercisable.
At each statement of performance of the segments.
benefit obligation is determined by discounting financial position date, for options granted the estimated future cash outflows using Discontinued operations and assets held with non-market vesting conditions, the Group interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds for sale revises its estimates of the number of options that are denominated in the currency in which Business components that represent separate that are expected to become exercisable.
It the benefits will be paid, and that have terms major lines of business or geographical areas recognises the impact of the revision of original to maturity approximating to the terms of the of operations are recognised as discontinued estimates, if any, in the income statement, related pension liability.
Past service costs are if the operations have been disposed of, or and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
recognised immediately in income, unless the meet the criteria to be classified as held for The proceeds received net of any directly changes to the pension plan are conditional sale under IFRS 5. attributable transaction costs are credited to on the employees remaining in service for a share capital and share premium when the Assets and disposal groups are classified as specified period of time the vesting period.
held for sale if their carrying amount will be this case, the past service costs are amortised principally recovered through a sale transaction on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Borrowing costs rather than through continuing use.
This Borrowing costs directly arising from the Any gains or losses from settlement or condition is regarded as met only when the sale purchase, construction or production of an curtailment are recognised in the income is highly probable, expected to be completed asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that statement when the curtailment or within one year and the asset or disposal asset.
During the year 1 million of borrowing settlement occurs.
group is available for immediate sale in its costs have been capitalised 2011: nil at a present condition.
Operations held for sale are rate of 3.7% 2011: 5.0%.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from held at the lower of their carrying amount on the experience adjustments and changes in Exceptional items date they are classified as held for sale and fair actuarial assumptions are charged or credited Exceptional items comprise items of income value less costs to sell.
immediately through the consolidated and expense, including tax items, that are statement of comprehensive income.
material in amount and unlikely to recur and 3 Critical accounting estimates which merit separate disclosure in order to Where the actuarial valuation of a scheme and judgements provide an understanding of the Groups demonstrates that the scheme is in surplus, In order to prepare these consolidated financial underlying financial performance.
Examples of the recognised asset is limited to that for statements in accordance with the accounting events giving rise to the disclosure of material which the Group expects to benefit in future policies set out in Note 2, management has items of income and expense as exceptional by refunds or a reduction in contribution.
used estimates and judgements to establish the items include, but are not limited to, impairment For defined contribution plans, the Group amounts at which certain items are recorded.
events, significant business transformation pays contributions to publicly or privately Critical accounting estimates and judgements activities, disposals of operations or significant administered pension insurance plans on are those that have the greatest impact on the individual assets, litigation claims by or against a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
financial statements and require the most the Group and the restructuring of components The Group has no further payment obligations difficult, subjective and complex judgements of the Groups operations.
See Note 7 for once the contributions have been paid.
The about matters that are inherently uncertain.
contributions are recognised as employee Estimates are based on factors including Government grants benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid historical experience and expectations of A government grant is recognised when there contributions are recognised as an asset to future events that management believe to be is reasonable assurance that any conditions the extent that a cash refund or a reduction reasonable.
However, given the judgemental attached to the grant will be satisfied and the in the future payments is available.
nature of such estimates, actual results could grants will be received.
A government grant is be different from the assumptions used.
The b Other post-employment obligations recognised at its fair value and is accounted for critical accounting estimates and judgements Some Group companies provide postas a deduction against the cost concerned or are set out below.
employment healthcare benefits to their within other income over the periods necessary retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits to match the grants with the related costs that they are intended to compensate.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 73 Financial statements: Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements assumptions involved in calculating the Deferred tax assets mainly arise from asset 3 Critical accounting estimates expected liabilities are mortality rates and the impairments and retirement benefit obligations and judgements continued discount rate used to calculate the present that the Group expects to recover at some time Impairment of assets value.
If the mortality rates assumption in the future and by their nature the amounts Asset impairments have the potential to changed, a one year increase to longevity recorded are therefore dependent on significantly impact operating profit.
In order at age 65 would increase the liability by managements judgement about future events.
to determine whether impairments are required 57 million.
The main financial assumption the Group estimates the recoverable amount Further details are set out in Notes 11 and 29. is the real discount rate, being the excess of the asset.
This calculation is usually based of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
on projecting future cash flows over a five-year If this assumption decreased by 1%, the gross period and using a terminal value to incorporate plan liabilities would increase by approximately expectations of growth thereafter.
factor is applied to obtain a current value value in use.
The fair value less costs to sell The income statement generally comprises of an asset is used if this results in an amount a regular charge to operating profit for open in excess of value in use.
defined benefit plans, which represents the service cost of providing the benefit for the Estimated future cash flows for impairment year, and a finance result, which represents calculations are based on managements the net of expected income from plan assets expectations of future volumes and margins and an interest charge on plan liabilities.
These based on plans and best estimates of the calculations are based on expected outcomes productivity of the assets in their current at the start of the financial year.
Future cash flows therefore exclude statement is most sensitive to changes in benefits from major expansion projects expected returns from plan assets and the requiring future capital expenditure where discount rate used to calculate the interest that expenditure has not been approved at charge on plan liabilities.
A 1% increase in the the statement of financial position date.
assumption of the discount rate would increase Future cash flows are discounted using a the net finance expense by approximately discount rate based on the Groups weighted 1.6 million.
average cost of capital, adjusted if appropriate Full details of these assumptions, which are for circumstances specific to the asset being based on advice from the Groups actuaries, tested.
The weighted average cost of capital is are set out in Note 30. impacted by estimates of interest rates, equity returns and market and country-related risks.
Provisions The Groups weighted average cost of capital The Group recognises a provision where is reviewed on an annual basis.
a legal or constructive obligation exists at the statement of financial position date and If the cash flow or discount rate assumptions a reliable estimate can be made of the likely were to change because of market conditions, outcome.
Where appropriate, future cash the level of impairment could be different and outflows that are expected to arise over a could result in the asset impairment being number of years are discounted to a present increased or reversed, in part or in full, at a future value using a relevant discount rate.
Goodwill impairment is never reversed.
At the statement of financial position date, Further details are set out in Notes 15 and 16. provisions included amounts for insurance Retirement benefits claims payable by the Groups reinsurance Among the range of retirement benefits company, legal matters, employee termination provided in businesses around the Group are and other restructuring costs.
a number of defined benefit pension plans Although provisions are reviewed on a regular and an unfunded healthcare benefit scheme basis and adjusted for managements best in the US.
The amounts recorded in the current estimates, the judgemental nature of financial statements for both of these types these items means that future amounts settled of arrangement are based on a number of may be different from those provided.
assumptions, changes to which could have a material impact on the reported amounts.
Further details are set out in Note 31.
Any net deficit or surplus arising on defined Taxation benefit plans and the liability under the The Group operates in a large number of tax healthcare plan is shown in the statement of jurisdictions around the world.
The amount recorded is the generally are complex and in some jurisdictions difference between plan assets and liabilities agreeing tax liabilities with local tax authorities at the statement of financial position date.
The can take several years.
Consequently, at the group only recognises a surplus to the extent statement of financial position date, tax liabilities it has an unconditional right to a refund or a and assets are based on managements best reduction in future contributions.
Plan assets estimate of the future amounts that will be are based on market value at that date.
While the Group aims to ensure that liabilities, including healthcare liabilities, are the estimates recorded are accurate, the actual based on actuarial estimates of the present amounts could be different from those expected.
value of future pension or other benefits that will be payable to members.
The most sensitive Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 74
