Financial Statements Financial statements: Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Use of adjusted measures discount rate to the net defined benefit 1 Presentation of financial Tate & Lyle presents adjusted profit before tax obligation.
For the year ended 31 March 2012, statements and adjusted earnings per share information.
calculating the finance charge in accordance General information These measures are used by Tate & Lyle for with the new requirements would have As set out on page 60, the principal activity internal performance analysis and incentive increased finance costs by 11 million 2011 of Tate & Lyle PLC is the global provision of compensation arrangements for employees.
Under its current accounting policies ingredients and solutions to the food, beverage The terms adjusted and exceptional items the Group recognises actuarial gains and and other industries.
It operates from more are not defined terms under IFRS and may losses directly in other comprehensive income, than 30 production facilities around the world.
therefore not be comparable with similarly as required by the new standard.
The adoptions titled measures reported by other companies.
of the other standards may affect disclosures The Company is a public limited company They are not intended to be a substitute for, or in the Groups financial statements.
incorporated and domiciled in the United superior to, GAAP measurements of profit.
The Company has its primary listing In May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 11 term adjusted refers to the relevant measure on the London Stock Exchange.
Joint Arrangements which, subject to EU being reported, excluding exceptional items endorsement, is effective for accounting periods Basis of preparation and the amortisation of intangible assets arising beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
While the These consolidated financial statements are on acquisition of businesses.
Exceptional items net result and net assets will remain unchanged, presented on the basis of International Financial are explained in Note 7.
A reconciliation of the presentation of the Consolidated Income Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the statutory to adjusted information is provided Statement, Consolidated Statement of Financial European Union and interpretations issued in Note 43.
Position and Consolidated Statement of by the International Financial Reporting New IFRS standards and interpretations Cash Flow will change significantly as IFRS 11 Interpretations Committee IFRIC and have adopted prohibits proportionate consolidation of been prepared in accordance with the Listing From 1 April 2011 the Group has adopted the joint ventures which is the Groups current Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority following new and amended IFRSs and IFRIC accounting policy, as allowed under IAS 31. and the Companies Act 2006, as applicable interpretations: Under IFRS 11, joint ventures will be equity to companies reporting under IFRS.
Operating segment results will IAS 24 revised Related party disclosure These consolidated financial statements remain unchanged and continue to Amendment to IFRS 1 First time adoption have been prepared in accordance with the proportionately consolidate joint ventures on financial instrument disclosure accounting policies set out in Note 2 and reflecting internal reporting to the Groups Amendment to IFRS 3 revised Business under the historical cost convention modified Chief Operating Decision Maker.
combinations to include revaluation of certain financial Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: The parent company, Tate & Lyle PLC, has not instruments and commodities, share options Disclosures on Fair Value hierarchy adopted IFRS as its statutory reporting basis.
and pension assets and liabilities.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Audited financial statements for the parent These consolidated financial statements are financial statements company, prepared in accordance with UK presented in pounds sterling, which is the Amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and GAAP, are set out on pages 115 to 121. functional currency of the Parent and the separate financial statements presentational currency of the Group.
Amendment to IAS 34 Interim financial 2 Group accounting policies reporting The preparation of financial statements in Basis of consolidation Amendment to IFRIC 14 Pre-payment conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain a Subsidiaries of a minimum funding requirement critical accounting estimates.
It also requires Subsidiaries are all entities over which the IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities management to exercise its judgement in the Group has the power to govern the financial with equity instruments.
process of applying the Companys accounting and operating policies, generally accompanying policies.
The areas involving a higher degree The adoption of these revised standards has a shareholding of more than one half of the of judgement or complexity and areas where not had a material impact on the Groups profit voting rights and taking into account the assumptions and estimates are significant for the year and equity.
existence of potential voting rights.
Subsidiaries to the consolidated financial statements are are fully consolidated from the date on which New IFRS standards and interpretations disclosed in Note 3. control is transferred to the Group.
They are not adopted fide-consolidated from the date that control The Group operates two divisions within The following standards, amendments and ceases.
The purchase method of accounting continuing operations: Speciality Food interpretations are not yet effective and have is used to account for the acquisition of Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients.
These not been adopted early by the Group: subsidiaries by the Group.
The recognised divisions meet the definition of an operating identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements segment under IFRS 8.
Central costs, which liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their IFRS 12 Disclosure of interest in other entities include head office, treasury and reinsurance fair values at the date of acquisition.
The Amendments to IAS 19 Employee benefits activities, do not meet the operating segment interest of minority shareholders is stated at Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of definition under IFRS 8 but have been disclosed the non-controlling interests proportion of the financial statements other comprehensive as a reportable segment in Note 4 to be fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities income consistent with internal management reporting.
Where Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Following the disposal of the EU Sugar Refining necessary, adjustments are made to the instruments presentation operations EU Sugars to American Sugar financial statements of subsidiaries to bring Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Holding, the sale of Molasses to W&R Barnett the accounting policies used into line with Disclosures on offsetting Ltd and the announcement of the conditional those used by the Group.
All inter-company IFRS 9 Financial instruments sale of Vietnam Sugar, the Sugars segment transactions and balances between Group IFRS 13 Fair Value measurement was reclassified as discontinued operations entities are eliminated on consolidation.
The adoption of these standards, amendments in the comparative period.
In the current year, and interpretations is not expected to have a the assets and liabilities of Vietnam Sugar material impact on the Groups result for the and the legacy sugar trading contracts have year or equity other than the amendment to been included within assets and liabilities held IAS 19.
This changes the basis on which the for sale.
Sugar operations in Israel ceased in financing charge is calculated by applying the the year.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69
