Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Notice of Annual General Meeting This notice of meeting is important and requires your immediate i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, be practicable to their existing holdings: and you are recommended to seek your own financial advice immediately ii to holders of other equity securities as required by from a stockbroker, solicitor, bank manager, accountant, or other the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services considers necessary: and Markets Act 2000. and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Taylor and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or Wimpey plc the Company, please pass this document together appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these the laws of, any territory or any other matter, documents to the person who now holds the shares.
If you have sold or transferred part only of your holding of shares in the Company, such authorities to apply until the end of the Annual General please consult the person who arranged the sale or transfer.
Meeting of the Company in 2014 or, if earlier, until the close of business on 24 July 2014 but, in each case, so that the Company Notice is hereby given of the seventy eighth Annual General may make offers and enter into agreements during this period Meeting of the Company to be held on 25 April 2013 at 11:00 am which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to at The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after London, WC1H 9JP for the following purposes: the authority ends: and the Board may allot shares or grant rights Ordinary Business to subscribe for or convert securities into shares under any such Ordinary Resolutions: offer or agreement as if the authority had not ended.
To receive the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors and the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012.
That, if resolution 13 is passed, the Board be given the power 2.
To declare due and payable on 21 May 2013 a final dividend of to allot equity securities as dened in the Companies Act 2006 0.43 pence per ordinary share of the Company for the year ended for cash under the authority given by that resolution and or to sell 31 December 2012 to shareholders on the register at close of ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash, business on 19 April 2013. free of the restriction in Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, 3.
To re-elect as a Director, Kevin Beeston.
To re-elect as a Director, Pete Redfern.
A to the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury shares for cash in connection with an offer of or invitation to apply for 5.
To re-elect as a Director, Ryan Mangold.
equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under 6.
To re-elect as a Director, James Jordan.
paragraph B of resolution 13, by way of a rights issue only : 7.
To re-elect as a Director, Kate Barker CBE.
i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and 8.
To re-elect as a Director, Mike Hussey.
ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by 9.
To re-elect as a Director, Anthony Reading MBE.
the rights of those securities, or as the Board otherwise 10.
To re-elect as a Director, Robert Rowley.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company, to hold and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions ofce until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or accounts are laid before the Company.
appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or 12.
Subject to the passing of resolution 11, to authorise the Audit under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditors on behalf of the Board.
B in the case of the authority granted under paragraph A of resolution 13 and or in the case of any sale of treasury 13.
That the Board be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot shares for cash, to the allotment otherwise than under shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or paragraph A above of equity securities up to a nominal convert any security into shares in the Company: amount of 1,615,288, A up to a nominal amount of 10,768,587 such amount to be such power to apply until the end of the Annual General Meeting reduced by the nominal amount of any equity securities as of the Company in 2014 or, if earlier, until the close of business dened in the Companies Act 2006 allotted under paragraph on 24 July 2014, but during this period the Company may make B below in excess of 10,768,587 : and offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require B comprising equity securities as dened in the Companies Act equity securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after 2006 up to a nominal amount of 21,537,174 such amount the power ends: and the Board may allot equity securities and sell to be reduced by any shares and rights to subscribe for or treasury shares under any such offer or agreement as if the power convert any security into shares allotted under paragraph A had not ended.
above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: 112 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 15.
That the Company be authorised for the purposes of Section 701 18.
That the amendments to the Taylor Wimpey Savings-Related of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases within the Share Option Plan the Sharesave Plan, as summarised in the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of the Notes to the Notice of Meeting including to extend the term for ordinary shares of 1p each of the Company ordinary shares, operation of the Sharesave Plan be and are hereby approved and provided that: adopted and the Board be and is hereby authorised to do all acts and things as it may consider necessary or desirable to implement A the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised the same.
That the amendments to the Taylor Wimpey Share Incentive Plan B the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is the SIP, as summarised in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting 1p per ordinary share: including to extend the term for operation of the SIP be and are hereby approved and adopted and the Board be and is hereby C the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid authorised to do all acts and things as it may consider necessary for an ordinary share is the highest of: i an amount equal to or desirable to implement the same.
105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange 20.
That the sale of an apartment and parking space at The Mill Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately Apartments, West Hampstead, London by Taylor Wimpey UK preceding the date on which such ordinary share is purchased: Limited for the sum of 709,599 to Mr Pete Redfern, a Director and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and of the Company, be hereby approved.
the highest independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out: Special Resolution: 21.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting D the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the earlier of the of the Company may continue to be called on not less than conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 14 clear days notice.
2014 and 24 October 2014 unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and Explanatory notes relating to each of the above resolutions are set out on pages 116 to 119.
E the Company may make contracts to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such Action to be taken If you wish to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may purchase ordinary shares person, please bring with you the attendance card accompanying this document and retain it until the end of the meeting.
It will authenticate in pursuance of any such contracts, as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
your right to attend, speak and vote, and will help us to register your attendance without delay.
Registration will be available from 9:30 am Special Business on the day of the meeting.
For the safety and comfort of those Ordinary Resolutions: attending the meeting, large bags, cameras, recording equipment 16.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended and similar items will not be allowed into the building.
The meeting 31 December 2012. will commence at 11:00 am and light refreshments will be available from 9:30 am and also after the conclusion of the meeting.
That in accordance with Sections 366 and 367 of the Companies wheelchair access to the venue for shareholders who require it or those Act 2006, the Company and all companies which are its with reduced mobility.
However, attendees are strongly advised to bring subsidiaries when this resolution is passed are authorised to: their own carers to assist with their general mobility around the venue.
A make political donations to political parties and or independent An induction loop system operates in the meeting room.
Directions election candidates not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate: to the venue can be found on the reverse of your attendance card.
B make political donations to political organisations other than If you would like to vote on the resolutions but cannot come to the political parties not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate: and Annual General Meeting, please ll in the proxy form sent to you with this notice and return it to our registrar as soon as possible.
They C incur political expenditure not exceeding 250,000 must receive it by no later than 11:00 am on 23 April 2013.
If you in aggregate, prefer, you can submit your proxy electronically either via the internet during the period beginning with the date of passing this resolution at www.
com or, if you are a CREST member, through and ending at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the the CREST system by completing and transmitting a CREST proxy Company in 2014. instruction as described in the procedural notes below.
For the purposes of this resolution the terms political donations, Recommendation political parties, independent election candidates, political Your Directors are of the opinion that the resolutions to be proposed organisation and political expenditure have the meanings at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company given by Sections 363 to 365 of the Companies Act 2006. and its shareholders as a whole and recommend you to vote in favour of them.
Each Director will be doing so in respect of his or her own beneficial shareholding.
co. uk 113 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Inspection of documents The following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce, Gate House, Turnpike Road, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR, during normal business hours from the date of this notice of meeting until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9JP from 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting until it ends: t copies of the Executive Directors service contracts: t copies of the letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Independent Non Executive Directors: t rules of the proposed new Taylor Wimpey Savings-Related Share Option Plan, as amended as proposed: and t rules of the proposed new Taylor Wimpey Share Incentive Plan, as amended as proposed, and incorporating the amended Taylor Wimpey Share Incentive Plan Trust Deed.
The rules of the proposed new Taylor Wimpey Savings-Related Share Option Plan, established 6 August 2004, and the rules of the proposed new Taylor Wimpey Share Incentive Plan incorporating the amended Taylor Wimpey Share Incentive Plan Trust Deed, both rules amended as proposed, will also be available for inspection at the ofce of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY during normal business hours from the date of this notice of meeting until the date of the Annual General Meeting.
A copy of the full Annual Report and Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012, including the Directors Remuneration Report referred to in resolution 16, is also available on our Web site plc.
co. uk By Order of the Board James Jordan Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Taylor Wimpey plc Registered Ofce: Gate House Turnpike Road High Wycombe Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR Registered in England and Wales under number 296805 28 February 2013 114 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Notes to the Notice of Meeting Procedural notes 6.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person 1.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under votes which shareholders may cast, shareholders must be an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6:00 pm he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have on 23 April 2013 or, in the event of any adjournment, on the date someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment Shareholders then on the Register of Members shall be entitled right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the exercise of voting rights.
Such persons should direct any to entries on the relevant Register of Members after that deadline communications and enquiries to the registered holder of the shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to shares by whom they were nominated and not to the Company attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
As at 28 February 2013 being the last business day prior to the 7.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital appointment of proxies in notes 3 and 4 above does not apply to consisted of 3,230,576,218 ordinary shares, carrying one vote Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these notes can only each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by 3.
If you are a shareholder of the Company at the time and date set out in note 1 above, you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and all or any of your rights to attend and to speak and vote on your behalf at the meeting.
Shareholders may appoint more than one those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
share or shares held by that shareholder.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the shareholder of the Company but must attend the Annual General CREST service to be valid, it must be properly authenticated in Meeting to represent you.
A proxy form which may be used to accordance with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds specications, make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies and must contain the information required for such instruction, as this notice.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you described in the CREST Manual available via www.
com should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact CREST.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction plus network extras: lines are open 8:30 am to 5:30 pm Monday given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, to Friday.
be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 4.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a by 11:00 am on 23 April 2013.
For this purpose, the time of receipt proxy must be received by post to Freepost RSBH-UXKS-LRBC, will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, or applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from during normal business hours only by hand at Capita Registrars, which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time BR3 4TU, or, if you prefer, electronically via the internet at any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST www.
com or, if you are a member of CREST, should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
via the service provided by Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited at 10.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors the electronic address provided in note 9, in each case no later or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK and than 11:00 am on 23 April 2013.
All forms of proxy received after Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in this time will be void.
A form of proxy sent electronically at any CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and time that is found to contain any virus will not be accepted.
limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST 5.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member any CREST Proxy Instruction as further described in notes 8 and 9 concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal below will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
co. uk 115 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Notes to the Notice of Meeting continued 11.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction Explanatory notes to the resolutions in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Ordinary Business Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more Resolution 1: To receive the annual report and financial statements corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its English company law requires the Directors to lay the Financial powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012 to the same shares.
and the reports of the Directors and Auditors before a general meeting of the Company.
Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to Resolution 2: To declare a final dividend require the Company to publish on a Web site a statement setting The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 0.43 out any matter relating to: pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors on 21 May 2013 to shareholders who are on the Register of Members report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before at the close of business on 19 April 2013. the Annual General Meeting: or Dividend Re-Investment Plan ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company Subject to shareholders approving the dividend as set out in ceasing to hold ofce since the previous meeting at which Resolution 2 at the Annual General Meeting scheduled for 25 April annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with 2013, the Company will be offering a Dividend Re-Investment Plan the Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
For 2013 and in future years, the DRI Plan will be provided The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any and administered by the DRI Plan administrator, Capita IRG Trustees Limited, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services such Web site publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
The DRI Plan will offer shareholders the opportunity to elect to invest cash dividends received on their ordinary shares, in Company is required to place a statement on a Web site under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the purchasing further ordinary shares of the Company.
These shares would be bought in the market, on competitive dealing terms.
statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the Web site.
The business Full details of the terms and conditions of the DRI Plan and the which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes actions required to participate in it are available on the Companys any statement that the Company has been required under Section Web site: plc.
co. uk or on request from the registrar, 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a Web site.
Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, e-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions UK or 44 20 8639 3399 overseas.
and participate in the meeting.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt Resolutions 3 to 10: Election of Directors with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: i to do In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code which so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or states that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject involve the disclosure of condential information: ii the answer to annual election by shareholders, the Board has resolved that all has already been given on a Web site in the form of an answer Directors of the Company save for Brenda Dean, who retires at the to a question: or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company conclusion of the AGM will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by Section Details of the Directors service contracts, remuneration and interests 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at plc.
in the Companys shares and other securities are given in the Directors taylorwimpey.
Remuneration Report to shareholders on pages 41 to 56 of the Report 16.
Voting on all resolutions at this years Annual General Meeting and Accounts.
Full biographical information concerning each Director is on pages 28 and 29 of the Report and Accounts.
will be conducted by way of a poll, rather than on a show of hands.
The Board believes that a poll is more representative of The following summary information is given in support of the Boards shareholders voting intentions because it gives as many proposal for the re-election of the Directors of the Company: shareholders as possible the opportunity to have their votes counted whether their votes are tendered by proxy in advance Kevin Beeston offers himself for re-election.
of, or in person at, the Annual General Meeting.
The results of Kevin has been Chairman of the Board since July 2010.
The Board the poll will be announced via a Regulatory News Service and is satisfied that he continues to carry out his duties to a very high made available at plc.
co. uk as soon as practicable standard including at meetings of the Board and of the Nomination after the Annual General Meeting.
Committee which he Chairs and the Remuneration Committee, and that his other commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which he is able to devote to the Company.
His biography appears on page 28.
116 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Pete Redfern offers himself for re-election.
Resolution 12: Authorisation of the Audit Committee to agree Pete has been Chief Executive since July 2007 and was previously on behalf of the Board the remuneration of Deloitte as auditors Group Chief Executive of George Wimpey Plc.
His biography appears The Board seeks shareholders authority for the Audit Committee on page 28. to determine on behalf of the Board the remuneration of Deloitte for their services.
The Board has adopted a procedure governing the Ryan Mangold offers himself for re-election.
appointment of Deloitte to carry out non-audit services, details of Ryan has been Group Finance Director since November 2010.
His which are given in the Audit Committee Report.
Details of non-audit biography appears on page 28. services performed by Deloitte in 2012 are given in Note 5 on page 75 of the Report and Accounts.
James Jordan offers himself for re-election.
James has been Group Legal Director since July 2011 and is also Resolution 13: Authority to allot shares the Group Company Secretary, a position he has held since 2007.
Your Directors wish to renew the existing authority to allot unissued His biography appears on page 28. shares in the Company, which was granted at the Companys last Annual General Meeting held on 26 April 2012 and is due to expire Kate Barker CBE offers herself for re-election.
at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Kate has been an Independent Non Executive Director since Paragraph A of resolution 13 would give the Directors the authority April 2011.
The Board is satisfied that she continues to be independent to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any in character and judgement in applying her expertise at meetings of the securities into ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount Board and of the Audit and Nomination Committees, and that her other equal to 10,768,587 representing 1,076,858,739 ordinary shares.
commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which This amount represents approximately one-third of the issued ordinary she is able to devote to the Company.
Her biography appears on share capital of the Company as at 14 March 2013, the latest page 29. practicable date prior to publication of this notice of meeting.
Mike Hussey offers himself for re-election.
In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI, Mike has been an Independent Non Executive Director since paragraph B of resolution 13 would give the Directors authority to allot July 2011.
The Board is satisfied that he is independent in ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities character and judgement and that his other commitments do not into ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of detract from the extent or quality of time which he is able to ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to devote to the Company.
His biography appears on page 29.
21,537,174 representing 2,153,717,478 ordinary shares, as reduced Anthony Reading MBE offers himself for re-election.
by the nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph A of Tony has been an Independent Non Executive Director since July 2007. resolution 13.
This amount before any reduction represents He has been subjected to a rigorous annual appraisal, having served approximately two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of the for seven years in that capacity including previously for George Wimpey Company as at 14 March 2013, the latest practicable date prior Plc and will have completed eight years by the time of the Annual to publication of this notice of meeting.
The Board is satisfied that he continues to be The authorities sought under paragraphs A and B of resolution independent in character and judgement in applying his expertise at 13 will expire at the earlier of 24 July 2014 and the conclusion of meetings of the Board and of the Remuneration Committee which he the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2014.
Chairs and the Audit and Nomination Committees, and that his other commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which he The Directors have no present intention to exercise either of the is able to devote to the Company.
His biography appears on page 29. authorities sought under this resolution.
However, if they do exercise the authorities, the Directors intend to follow ABI recommendations Robert Rowley offers himself for re-election.
concerning their use including as regards the Directors standing for Rob has been an Independent Non Executive Director since re-election in certain cases.
January 2010 and the Senior Independent Director since April 2010.
The Board is satisfied that he continues to be independent in character Special Resolutions and judgement in applying his expertise at meetings of the Board and Resolution 14: Authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights of the Audit Committee which he Chairs and the Nomination and The Board wishes to renew the existing authority from shareholders Remuneration Committees, and that his other commitments do not to allot shares or sell any shares held in treasury for cash otherwise detract from the extent or quality of time which he is able to devote than to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
His biography appears on page 29. which will be proposed as a special resolution and therefore requires a 75% majority of votes to be cast in favour, would give the Directors the The Board confirms that each of the above Directors has recently authority to allot ordinary shares or sell any ordinary shares which the been subject to formal performance evaluation, details of which are set Company elects to hold in treasury for cash without first offering them out in the Corporate Governance Report, and that each continues to to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
demonstrate commitment and to be an effective member of the Board.
This authority would be, similar to previous years, limited to Resolution 11: Re-appointment of Deloitte LLP Deloitte as auditors allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers and offers of the Company to holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those In accordance with English company law, the Company is required shares or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise to appoint auditors at each general meeting at which accounts are laid up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,615,288 representing before the shareholders.
It is therefore proposed that the auditors are 161,528,810 ordinary shares.
This aggregate nominal amount appointed from the conclusion of the 2013 Annual General Meeting represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before shareholders.
The Board recommends the re-appointment the Company as at 14 March 2013, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice.
In respect of this aggregate nominal of Deloitte as the Companys auditors.
amount, the Directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
co. uk 117 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Notes to the Notice of Meeting continued The authority will expire at the earlier of 24 July 2014 and the Resolution 17: Authority to make political donations conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held In order to comply with its obligations under the Companies Act 2006 in 2014. and to avoid any inadvertent infringement of that Act, the Board wishes to renew its existing authority for a general level of political donation Resolution 15: Authority to make market purchases of shares and or expenditure.
Resolution 17 seeks to renew the existing authority This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and therefore for the Company to make political donations and incur political requires a 75% majority of votes to be cast in favour.
The Companies Act 2006 requires this authority to be divided into three heads as set out in Resolution 17 with a separate Any purchases under this authority would be made in one or amount specified as permitted for each.
An amount not exceeding more tranches and would be limited in aggregate to 10% of the 250,000 for each head of the authority has been proposed.
In ordinary shares of the Company in issue at the close of business accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Resolution 17 extends on 14 March 2013. approval to all of the Companys subsidiaries.
The maximum price to be paid on any exercise of the authority This authority will last until the conclusion of the Annual General would not exceed the highest of i 105% of the average of the Meeting of the Company in 2014, unless renewal is sought at middle market quotations for the Companys ordinary shares for the that meeting.
five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the The Company and the Group do not make any donations to political highest current independent bid on the trading venues where the parties or organisations but do support certain industry-wide initiatives purchase is carried out.
Shares purchased pursuant to these authorities such as those of the Home Builders Federation in the UK.
Whilst could be held as treasury shares, which the Company can re-issue the Board does not regard this as political in nature, in certain quickly and cost-effectively, and provides the Company with additional circumstances donations made for charitable or similar purposes exibility in the management of its capital base.
The total number of could possibly be treated as a donation to a political organisation shares held as treasury shall not at any one time exceed 10% of the under the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
For example, Companys issued share capital.
Accordingly, any shares bought back a donation to a humanitarian charity which may also operate as a over the 10% limit will be cancelled.
The Company currently holds no political lobby, sponsorship, subscriptions, paid leave to employees shares in treasury.
fullling public duties and payments to industry representative bodies could constitute a donation to a political organisation within the current This is a standard resolution, sought by the majority of public listed companies at Annual General Meetings.
The Boards current intention denitions in the Companies Act 2006. of utilising this authority is generally limited to acquiring shares for the Details of the Companys and the Groups charitable donations various share scheme arrangements.
The Board would only consider a appear on page 59 of the Report and Accounts.
more formal share purchase programme if it would result in an increase in earnings per share and was in the best interests of shareholders Resolution 18: Taylor Wimpey Savings-Related Share Option Plan generally, having regard to all relevant circumstances.
The Taylor Wimpey Savings-Related Share Option Plan Sharesave Plan was last adopted by shareholders at the Companys AGM in The total number of options, conditional share awards and 2004, for a period not exceeding ten years.
The Company is now warrants to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding as at seeking approval to extend the life of the Sharesave Plan for a further the close of business on 14 March 2013 was 110,699,895, ten years.
representing approximately 3.4% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at that date and approximately 3.8% The existing Sharesave Plan, which is approved by HM Revenue & of the Companys issued ordinary share capital following any exercise Customs HMRC, is open to all employees and offers the benets in full of this authority to make market purchases.
set out on page 48 of this Annual Report.
The Company first offered a Sharesave Plan in 1982 and it has proved extremely popular with The Company has warrants over 24,037,392 ordinary shares, employees.
Almost half of our UK employees currently participate in representing 0.7% of the Companys ordinary issued share capital either the Sharesave Plan, or the Taylor Wimpey Share Incentive as at close of business on 14 March 2013.
If the authority given by Plan SIP described in Resolution 19, or in both.
Both plans Resolution 15 were to be fully used, these would represent 0.8% encourage employees to take an interest in the Companys share of the Companys ordinary issued share capital at that date.
price performance, and help to align their interests with those of This authority will last until the earlier of 24 October 2014 and the other shareholders.
conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2014.
Shareholder approval is being sought to extend the life of the Sharesave Plan until 20 April 2024 the twentieth anniversary of its Special Business adoption to enable the Company to continue to operate the Sharesave Ordinary Resolutions Plan and to reduce the retirement age under the Sharesave Plan from Resolution 16: Approval of the Directors Remuneration Report 65 to 60.
The Remuneration Committee has also taken the opportunity for the year ended 31 December 2012 to update the Rules of the Sharesave Plan in some respects, taking The Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended into account modern practice.
31 December 2012 has been prepared in accordance with Sections Resolution 18 seeks approval for the amendment of the 420 and 421 of the Companies Act 2006.
Section 439 of said Act Sharesave Plan.
requires the Company to give shareholders notice of an ordinary resolution approving the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Resolution 19: Taylor Wimpey Share Incentive Plan Directors Remuneration Report is on pages 41 to 56 of the The Taylor Wimpey Share Incentive Plan SIP was last adopted Report and Accounts.
The Board considers that appropriate executive by shareholders at the Companys AGM in 2004, for a period not remuneration plays a vital part in helping to achieve the Companys exceeding ten years.
The Company is now seeking approval to overall objectives.
The vote on the Remuneration Report has advisory extend the life of the SIP for a further ten years.
status in respect of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages and is not specic to individual levels of remuneration.
118 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 The existing SIP, which is approved by HMRC, is open to all The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 have employees and offers the benets set out on page 48 of this Annual increased the notice period required for general meetings of the Report.
The Company first offered a SIP in 2004 and it has proved Company to 21 clear days unless shareholders agree to a shorter extremely popular with employees, as described in the notes to notice period, which cannot be less than 14 clear days.
At the 2012 the preceding Resolution.
Annual General Meeting, a resolution was passed approving the Companys ability to call general meetings other than Annual General Shareholder approval is being sought to extend the life of the SIP Meetings, which will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days until 20 April 2024 the twentieth anniversary of its adoption to enable notice on not less than 14 clear days notice.
As this approval will the Company to continue to operate the SIP and for the retirement expire at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting, Resolution age under the SIP to be reduced from 65 to 50.
In addition, a fide 21 proposes its renewal.
The shorter notice period of 14 clear days minimis payment threshold of 2.50 is to be introduced to reduce would not be used as a matter of routine for any general meeting, the administrative burden of paying very small amounts to employees but only where the exibility is merited by the business of a particular which result from a corporate action or rights issue and wording is meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a to be added to clarify that the SIP trustees have a 12-month period whole.
The renewed approval will be effective until the Companys in which to notify employees of their shareholdings.
Provisions allowing Annual General Meeting in 2014, when it is intended that a similar the SIP trustees to insure against loss and breach of trust, except resolution will be proposed.
where such loss or breach of trust is due to the Trustees wilful wrongdoing or for loss only negligence, are also to be included Note that in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than in the SIP trust deed.
The Remuneration Committee has also taken 21 clear days notice, the Company must in respect of that meeting the opportunity to update the Rules of the SIP in some respects, make available electronic voting to all shareholders.
taking into account modern practice.
Resolution 19 seeks approval for the amendment of the SIP.
Resolution 20: Substantial Property Transaction Mr Pete Redfern, a Director of the Company, intends to enter into a contract to purchase an apartment at The Mill Apartments, West Hampstead, London once approval has been obtained for the transaction from the shareholders of the Company, from Taylor Wimpey UK Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
Pete Redfern is also a Director of Taylor Wimpey UK Limited.
As the transaction is in excess of 100,000, it constitutes a substantial property transaction with a Director of the Company under sections 190 and 191 of the Companies Act 2006 and therefore requires the prior approval of shareholders, which is being sought at this Annual General Meeting.
The Mill Apartments development comprises a residential scheme built by Taylor Wimpey UK Limited.
The purchase price being paid by Pete Redfern is 709,599 for an apartment including one parking space.
The purchase price was xed following a rigorous review of the prices already obtained in the open market for apartments at The Mill Apartments adjusted for differentiating factors, less a discount of five per cent.
pursuant to the Companys employee purchase scheme.
Otherwise, the price being paid by Pete Redfern assumes that the transaction is an arms length sale.
The agreement between Taylor Wimpey UK Limited and Pete Redfern will be a standard form sale and purchase agreement used by Taylor Wimpey UK Limited for The Mill Apartments development.
Pete Redfern has paid a standard reservation fee to Taylor Wimpey UK Limited prior to the Annual General Meeting, but the transaction shall be subject to obtaining shareholder approval.
The Board believes the terms of the proposed agreement are fair and reasonable and that the price being paid by Pete Redfern will be the market value of the apartment and parking space less the discount of five per cent.
as described above as at the date of exchange of contracts.
Special Resolution Resolution 21: Notice of general meetings This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and therefore requires a 75% majority of votes to be cast in favour.
