Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Shareholder Facilities Annual General Meeting Shareholders Services 11:00 am on 25 April 2013 at: Web communications Shareholders have previously passed a resolution enabling The British Medical Association, BMA House, the Company to make documents and information available to Tavistock Square, London WC1H 9JP shareholders by electronic means and via a Web site, rather than Latest date for receipt of proxy instructions for the 2013 by sending hard copies.
This way of communicating is enabled in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Rule 6 of the Disclosure Annual General Meeting: 11:00 am on 23 April 2012. and Transparency Rules and the Companys Articles of Association.
Group Legal Director and Company Secretary and Making documents and information available electronically: Registered Ofce James Jordan t enables the Company to reduce printing and postage costs: Gate House Turnpike Road t allows faster access to information and enables shareholders to High Wycombe access documents on the day they are published on the Companys Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR Web site: Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 t reduces the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, Fax: 44 0 1494 885663 and lessens the impact of printing and mailing activities on E-mail: james.
Registrar The Company provides hard copy documentation to those For any enquiries concerning your shareholding or details shareholders who have requested this and is, of course, happy of shareholder services, please contact: to provide hard copies to any shareholders upon request.
Capita Registrars The Companys Web site url is plc.
co. uk and shareholder The Registry documentation made available electronically is generally accessible 34 Beckenham Road at plc.
Beckenham Kent Electronic communications BR3 4TU The Company also encourages shareholders to elect to receive E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com notication of the availability of Company documentation by means Tel: 0871 664 0300 UK of an e-mail.
Shareholders can sign up for this facility by logging onto our Web site at plc.
Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open 8:30 am to 5:30 pm Mon-Fri. On-line facilities for shareholders You can access our Annual and Interim Reports and copies Tel: 44 20 8639 3399 overseas of recent shareholder communications on-line at: Auditors plc.
Deloitte LLP To register for on-line access, go to Solicitors plc.
co. uk , Slaughter and May and click on the service you require.
To access some of these services you will first be required to apply on-line.
Stockbrokers J. P. Morgan Cazenove Once you have registered for access, you can make on-line enquiries Jefferies Hoare Govett about your shareholding and advise the Company of changes in personal details.
Dividend Re-Investment Plan You can choose to invest your cash dividends in purchasing Taylor Wimpey shares on the market under the terms of the Dividend Re-Investment Plan.
For further information on the Plan and how to join, contact Capita Registrars.
Dividend mandates We strongly encourage all shareholders to receive their cash dividends by direct transfer to a bank or building society account.
This ensures that dividends are credited promptly to shareholders without the cost and inconvenience of having to pay in dividend cheques at a bank.
If you wish to use this cost-effective and simple facility, complete and return the dividend mandate form attached to your dividend cheque.
Additional mandate forms may be obtained from Capita Registrars.
Duplicate share register accounts If you are receiving more than one copy of our Annual Report, it may be that your shares are registered in two or more accounts on our Register of Members.
You might wish to consider merging them into one single entry.
Please contact Capita Registrars who will be pleased to carry out your instructions in this regard.
120 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Principal Operating Addresses Low-cost share dealing services UK We have arranged both telephone and on-line share dealing services Taylor Wimpey plc for UK resident Taylor Wimpey shareholders to buy or sell up to Gate House 25,000 worth of Taylor Wimpey plc shares.
The services are operated Turnpike Road by Capita Registrars.
To use the services either visit www.
High Wycombe com or telephone 44 0 871 664 0446 calls cost 10p per minute plus Buckinghamshire network extras: lines open 8:00 am to 4:30 pm Mon-Fri. To deal, you HP12 3NR will need to provide your surname, postcode, date of birth and investor Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 code which can be found on your share certicate or any form of proxy Fax: 44 0 1494 885663 you have been sent.
Shareholders are not in any way obliged to use this service when dealing in the Companys shares.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey and CREST Taylor Wimpey shares can be held in CREST accounts, which do Registered in England and Wales number 296805 not require share certicates.
This may make it quicker and easier for Taylor Wimpey UK Limited some shareholders to settle stock market transactions.
Shareholders Gate House who deal infrequently may, however, prefer to continue to hold their Turnpike Road shares in certicated form and this facility will remain available for the High Wycombe time being, pending the likely general introduction of dematerialised Buckinghamshire shareholdings in due course.
HP12 3NR Taylor Wimpey share price Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 Our share price is printed in many of the UK daily newspapers and Fax: 44 0 1494 885663 is also available on our Web site plc.
It appears on BBC Text and other digital television interactive services.
It may Spain also be obtained by telephoning the FT Cityline service, telephone: Taylor Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U.
44 0 9058 171690 and ask for Taylor Wimpey on the voice C Aragon, 223-223A activated response calls cost 75p per minute from a BT landline, 07008 Palma fide Mallorca other networks may vary.
Mallorca Spain Gifting shares to charity If you have a small holding of Taylor Wimpey plc shares, you may Tel: 00 34 971 706 570 wish to consider gifting them to charity.
You can do so through Fax: 00 34 971 706 565 ShareGift, which is administered by a registered charity, Orr Details of all our operating locations are available Mackintosh Foundation Limited.
Shares gifted are re-registered into on our Web site plc.
co. uk the name of the charity, combined with other donated shares and then sold through stockbrokers who charge no commission.
The proceeds are distributed to a wide range of recognised charities.
For further details, please contact Capita Registrars or approach ShareGift directly on www.
Unsolicited approaches to shareholders We have received reports from a number of Taylor Wimpey shareholders who have each received what appear to be fraudulent approaches from third parties during recent months with respect to their shareholding in the Company.
In some cases these are cold calls and in others correspondence.
They generally purport to be from a rm of solicitors or an investment company and offer, or hold out the prospect of, large gains on Taylor Wimpey shares or other investments you may hold.
The approaches normally include the seeking of an advance payment from the shareholder, the disclosure of the shareholders bank details or the sale of an unrelated investment.
Shareholders are advised to be extremely wary of such approaches and advised to only deal with rms authorised by the UK Financial Services Authority FSA.
You can check whether an enquirer is properly authorised and report scam approaches by contacting the FSA on www.
uk Pages Doing Regulated Law Alerts form.
shtml or by calling 0845 606 1234 and you can contact the Taylor Wimpey Investor Relations Department at twplc@taylorwimpey.
co. uk 121 Taylor Wimpey plc SHAREHOLDER ATTENDANCE CARD Notes Form of Proxy Every member of the Company has a right to appoint some other person s of their choice to exercise all or any of his her rights to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
If you cannot attend the meeting but still wish to vote, you may do so by appointing a proxy or proxies to attend and vote instead of you by completing and returning the Form of Proxy below in accordance with these notes.
A pr oxy need not be a member of the Company.
You can also appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by you.
The following options are available: a To appoint the Chairman as your sole proxy in respect of all your shares, simply fill in any voting instructions in the appropriate boxes and sign and date the Form of Proxy.
b T o appoint a person other than the Chairman as your sole proxy in respect of all your shares, delete the words the Chairman of the meeting or and insert the name of your proxy in the space provided.
Then fill in any voting instructions in the appropriate boxes and sign and date the Form of Proxy.
c To appoint more than one proxy, please sign and date the Form of Proxy and attach a schedule listing the names in block letters of all of your proxies, the number of shares in respect of which each proxy is appointed which, in aggregate, should not exceed the number of shares held by you and indicating how you wish each proxy to vote or abstain from voting.
If Taylor Wimpey plc Annual General Meeting you wish to appoint the Chairman as one of your multiple proxies, simply To be held at The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London write the Chairman of the meeting.
No proxy may be authorised to WC1H 9JP on 25 April 2013 at 11:00 am.
If it is your intention to attend the meeting exercise votes that any other proxy has been authorised to exercise.
in person please bring this card with you and hand it in at the shareholder reception 2.
Unless otherwise indicated the pr oxy will vote as he thinks fit or, at his desk on arrival.
This will help us to register your attendance without delay.
Registration discretion, abstain from voting on the specified resolutions and, unless will be available from 9:30 am.
Please try and arrive by 10:30 am to allow time for instructed otherwise, on any other business including amendments to registration.
For the safety and comfort of those attending the meeting, large bags, resolutions which may properly come before the meeting.
cameras, recording equipment and similar items will not be allowed into the building.
You may submit your proxy electronically at www.
You will continued overleaf need your Investor Code below.
Signature of person attending AREA FOR BARCODE Investor Code Taylor Wimpey plc Annual General Meeting FORM OF PROXY AREA FOR BARCODE, AREA FOR PERSONALISATION INVESTOR CODE AND EVENT CODE I We the undersigned being a shareholder s of Taylor Wimpey plc hereby appoint the Chairman of the meeting or the person named below see Note 1 above as my our proxy to exercise all of my our rights to attend, speak and vote in Name of proxy No.
of shares to be voted respect of my our voting entitlement at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 25 April 2013 at 11:00 am and at any adjournment thereof.
I we have indicated with an X how I we wish my our votes to be cast on the following resolution s. Please mark this box if you attach a schedule of multiple proxies to this Form of Proxy see Note 1 c above.
Resolutions Please mark X to indicate how you wish your proxy to vote see Note 2 above.
Ordinary Business Ordinary Business Cont.
1 To receive the 2012 Directors and Auditors Reports 12 To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the auditors fees and Financial Statements 13 To give the Directors authority to allot shares 2 To approve a dividend 14 To dis-apply pre-emption rights 3 To re-elect Kevin Beeston 15 To empower the Company to make market purchases of its shares 4 To re-elect Pete Redfern Special Business 5 To re-elect Ryan Mangold 16 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report 6 To re-elect James Jordan 17 To authorise political expenditure 7 To re-elect Kate Barker CBE 18 To approve the Taylor Wimpey Savings-Related Share Option Plan 8 To re-elect Mike Hussey 19 To approve the Taylor Wimpey Share Incentive Plan 9 To re-elect Anthony Reading MBE 20 To approve a substantial property transaction by Pete Redfern, Director 10 To re-elect Robert Rowley 21 To approve the calling of General Meetings on 14 clear days notice 11 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor This card should not be used for any comments, change of address or other queries.
Signature Date see Note 5 overleaf see Note 5 overleaf For Against Vote Withheld For Against Vote Withheld 9.
Shar eholders wishing to vote on-line should visit www.
com Notes continued and follow the instructions.
T o be valid, the Form of Proxy overleaf must arrive at Capita Registrars, 10.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not preclude you from The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU during usual attending and voting in person at the meeting should you subsequently business hours accompanied by any power of attorney under which it is decide to do so.
executed if applicable no later than 11:00 am on 23 April 2013.
Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting and the number of votes which 4.
If you prefer, you may return the proxy form in an envelope to FREEPOST may be cast at that meeting will be determined by reference to the Register RSBH-UXKS-LRBC, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
of Members of the Company at 6:00 pm on 23 April 2013.
The Form of Proxy must be signed and dated by the member or his her duly Register of Members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the appointed attorney.
A corporation must execute the Form of Proxy under rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
either its common seal or the hand of a duly authorised officer or attorney stating their capacity e. g. director, secretary.
In the case of joint holdings, any one holder may sign this form.
The vote of the senior joint holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority will be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of the joint holding.
The Form of Proxy is for use in respect of the shareholder account specified overleaf only and should not be amended or submitted in respect of a different account.
The Vote Withheld option is to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution.
Such a vote is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the votes For and Against a resolution.
Shares held in uncertificated form i. e. in CREST may be voted through the CREST Proxy Voting Service in accordance with the procedures set out in the CREST manual available at www.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 11:00 am on 23 April 2013.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Location map for the Taylor Wimpey plc Annual General Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Meeting to be held at 11:00 am on 25 April 2013 Business Reply Licence Number RSBH-UXKS-LRBC 1 PXS 34 BECKENHAM ROAD BECKENHAM BR3 4TU plc.
co. uk Explorer offset is FSC certied stock sourced from carefully managed and renewed forests.
It is produced in a mill that is certied to the ISO 1400 environmental management standard.
The printing of this report is CarbonNeutral.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.
com Printed by CPI Colour
