BUSINESS DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors' Report, the Directors' Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
They are also responsible for ensuring that the annual report includes information required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with those standards.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's transactions, to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company's website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements and other information included in annual reports may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors confirm, to the best of their knowledge: that the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and that the management report set out in the Chairmans Statement, Business Review and Financial Review on pages 7 to 24 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The names and functions of all the directors are stated on pages 4 and 5.
43 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
