OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Tesco PLC for the Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 52weeks ended 25 February 2012 which comprise the Group income In our opinion: statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group balance sheet, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group the information given in the Directors Report for the 52 weeks ended cashflow statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting 25 February 2012 for which the Group financial statements are prepared framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law is consistent with the Group financial statements.
andInternational Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted bytheEuropean Union.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, out on page 88, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the inouropinion: Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are theGroup financial statements in accordance with applicable law and notmade: or International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards we have not received all the information and explanations we require require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards forour audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for theCompanys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 the Directors statement, set out on page 49, in relation to of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving goingconcern: these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose ortoany other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the itmay come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and Scope of the audit of the financial statements certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Directors remuneration.
inthe financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Other matter by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been of Tesco PLC for the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2012 and on the consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall having been audited.
presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Financial Richard Winter Senior Statutory Auditor Statements to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial for and on behalf of  LLP statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
London 4 May 2012 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 25February 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for the 52 weeks thenended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by theEuropean Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 89
