Group cash flow statement 52 weeks 52 weeks 2012 2011 Year ended 25 February 2012 notes m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 29 5,688 5,613 Interest paid 531 614 Corporation tax paid 749 760 Net cash generated from operating activities 4,408 4,239 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 65 89 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, investment property and non-current assets classified as held for sale 1,141 1,906 Purchase of property, plant and equipment and investment property 3,374 3,178 Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 3 Purchase of intangible assets 334 373 Net decrease increase in loans to joint ventures 122 194 Investments in joint ventures and associates 49 174 Investments in short-term and other investments 1,972 683 Proceeds from sale of short-term and other investments 1,205 719 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 40 62 Interest received 103 128 Net cash used in investing activities 3,183 1,873 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 69 98 Increase in borrowings 2,905 2,217 Repayment of borrowings 2,720 4,153 Repayment of obligations under finance leases 45 42 Purchase of non-controlling interests 89 Dividends paid to equity owners 1,180 1,081 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 3 2 Own shares purchased 303 31 Net cash used in financing activities 1,366 2,994 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 141 628 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 2,428 3,102 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 24 46 Cash and cash equivalents including cash held in disposal group at the end of the year 2,311 2,428 Cash held in disposal group 6 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 18 2,305 2,428 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt note 52 weeks 52 weeks 2012 2011 Year ended 25 February 2012 note m m Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 141 628 Elimination of net decrease increase in Tesco Bank cash and cash equivalents 126 219 Investment in Tesco Bank 112 446 Debt acquired on acquisition 98 17 Net cash outflow to repay Retail debt and lease financing 262 2,870 Dividend received from Tesco Bank 100 150 Increase decrease in Retail short-term investments 221 292 Decrease increase in Retail joint venture loan receivables 122 159 Other non-cash movements 330 480 Elimination of other Tesco Bank non-cash movements 46 42 Increase decrease in net debt for the year 48 1,139 Opening net debt 30 6,790 7,929 Closing net debt 30 6,838 6,790 NB.
The reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt note is not a primary statement and does not form part of the cash flow statement but forms part of the notes to the financial statements.
See Note 1 Accounting policies for details of reclassifications.
The notes on pages 95 to 141 form part of these financial statements.
94 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements Basis of consolidation Note 1 Accounting policies The consolidated Group financial statements consist of the financial General information statements of the ultimate Parent Company Tesco PLC, all entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share Tesco PLC the Company is a public limited company incorporated anddomiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 ofitsinterests in joint ventures and associates.
The address of the registered office is Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire, EN8 9SL, UK.
Subsidiaries The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated The financial year represents the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2012 prior financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
financial year 52 weeks ended 26 February 2011.
For the UK, the Republic of Ireland and the US, the results are for the 52 weeks ended 25 February Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and 2012 prior financial year 52 weeks ended 26 February 2011.
For all other operations, the results are for the calendar year ended 29 February 2012 expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Joint ventures and associates The main activities of the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group are those of retailing and retail banking.
The Groups share of the results of joint ventures and associates is included in the Group Income Statement using the equity method of accounting.
Basis of preparation Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the Group Balance Sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net The consolidated Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS assets of the entity, less any impairment in value.
The carrying values of investments in joint ventures and associates include acquired goodwill.
andIFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as endorsed by the European Union, and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 If the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated Group financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, generally rounded exceeds its investment in the joint venture or associate, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments, share-based payments, customer loyalty ormade payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
programmes and pensions that have been measured at fair value.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Discontinued operations During the financial year, the Board approved a plan to dispose of its Use of assumptions and estimates operations in Japan which is consistent with the Groups long-term strategic priority to drive growth and improve returns by focusing on its The preparation of the consolidated Group financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect larger businesses in the region.
In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the net results for the the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are year are presented within discontinued operations in the Group Income Statement for which the comparatives have been reclassified and the based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed assets and liabilities of the business are presented separately in the to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from GroupBalance Sheet.
See Note 7 for further details.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Cash and cash equivalents reclassification During the financial year, the Group identified certain assets held by Critical estimates and assumptions that are applied in the preparation Tesco Bank that had a maturity profile of less than three months that ofthe consolidated financial statements include: would be more appropriately classified as cash and cash equivalents in accordance with IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows.
The assets identified Depreciation and amortisation comprised loans and advances to banks, certificates of deposit included The Group exercises judgement to determine useful lives and residual within other investments and other receivables.
The amounts relating to values of intangibles, property, plant and equipment and investment these balances have accordingly been reclassified in the Group Balance property.
The assets are depreciated down to their residual values over Sheet and the Group Cash Flow Statement as cash and cash equivalents.
The impact of these reclassifications, with no change to net assets, is to: Impairment increase cash and cash equivalents by 558m and 283m at 26 February i Impairment of goodwill 2011 and 27 February 2010 respectively: The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating units has been decrease other investments by 170m and 165m at 26 February 2011 determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require and 27 February 2010 respectively, such that other investments were the use of estimates as set out in Note 10.
698m at 27 February 2010: decrease loans and advances to banks by 404m and 144m at ii Impairment of assets 26February 2011 and 27 February 2010 respectively, such that loans The Group has determined each store as a separate cash-generating unit and advances to banks were nil at 27 February 2010: for impairment testing.
Where there are indicators for impairment, the Group performs an impairment test.
increase trade and other receivables by 16m and 26m at 26 February 2011 and 27 February 2010 respectively, such that trade and other Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are based on the higher receivables were 1,914m at 27 February 2010: and ofvalue in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Value in use is calculated increase cash flows from operating activities by 270m and increase from cash flow projections for five years using data from the Groups netcash used in investing activities by 5m for the 52 weeks ended latestinternal forecasts.
These calculations require the use of estimates 26February 2011. asset out in Note 11.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to allperiods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 95 Notes to the Group financial statements Adoption of new International Financial Reporting Standards Note 1 Accounting policies continued The Group has adopted the following amended standards and interpretations as of 27 February 2011. iii Impairment of loans and advances to customers and banks The Groups loan impairment provisions are established to recognise incurred IAS 24 amended Related party disclosures impairment losses in its portfolio of loans classified as loans and receivables and carried at amortised cost.
These calculations require the use of estimates IFRIC 14 amended Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement as set out in the accounting policy note for Financial instruments.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments Provisions The Group has adopted all amendments published in Improvements to IFRSs Provisions have been made for onerous leases, dilapidations, restructuring, issued in May 2010.
The adoption of the above standards, interpretations pensions, customer redress and claims.
These provisions are estimates and and amendments has not had any significant impact on the amounts the actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future reported in the Group financial statements but may impact the accounting events.
The difference between expectations and the actual future liability for future transactions and arrangements.
will be accounted for in the period when such determination is made.
Revenue The Group has a provision for potential customer redress.
In the prior year, Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or receivable for the Financial Services Authority FSA formally issued Policy Statement the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the Groups activities.
10 12 PS 10 12, which introduced new guidance in respect of Payment Protection Insurance PPI customer redress and evidential provisions to Sale of goods the FSA Handbook with an implementation date of 1 December 2010.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership TheGroup will continue to handle complaints and redress customers in of the goods have transferred to the buyer and the amount of revenue can accordance with PS 10 12.
This will include ongoing analysis of historical be measured reliably.
claims experience in accordance with the guidance.
Revenue is recorded net of returns, discounts offers and value added taxes.
The calculation of this provision involves estimating a number of variables, principally the level of customer complaints which may be received and Provision of services the level of any compensation which may be payable to customers.
The Revenue from the provision of services is recognised when the service is number of cases on which compensation is ultimately payable may also be provided and the revenue can be measured reliably, based on the terms influenced by the outcome of the analysis of historical claims referred to of the contract.
A change in the estimate of any of the key variable in this calculation could have the potential to significantly impact the provision recognised.
Where the Group acts as an agent selling goods or services, only the commission income is included within revenue.
Insurance reserves The Group recognises insurance commission arising from the sale Financial services of general insurance policies sold under the Tesco brand.
The level Revenue consists of interest, fees and income from the provision of commission is dependent upon the profitability of the underlying ofinsurance.
insurance policies, which is in turn dependent on the level of reserves held by the insurance trading partner to underwrite the policies in place.
Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and Calculation of the required level of insurance claims reserves is dependent receivables is determined using the effective interest rate method.
Management also undertakes an assessment of other risks which are outside the scope of this review Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees receivable, but that are inherent in assessing potential claims liabilities including that are an integral part of the instruments yield, premiums or discounts court legal rulings on individual large losses, the extent to which claims on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
developments impact the reinsurance protection in place and the proportion of claims settling with periodic payment orders.
A change Fees in respect of services such as credit card interchange, late payment, in the estimate of any of the key variables in this calculation could have balance transfer fees and ATM revenue are recognised as the right to the potential to significantly impact the reserve balance recognised consideration accrues through the provision of the service to the customer.
which would therefore also impact the insurance commission revenue The arrangements are generally contractual and the cost of providing the recognised in the income statement.
The nature of these factors is such service is incurred as the service is rendered.
that it is not possible at this time to quantify the uncertainty around the eventual cost.
The Group generates commission from the sale and service of Motor and Home insurance policies underwritten by Tesco Underwriting Limited, or in Post-employment benefit obligations a minority of cases by a third party underwriter.
This is based on commission The present value of the post-employment benefit obligations depends rates which are independent of the profitability of underlying insurance ona number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using policies.
Similar commission income is also generated from the sale of anumber of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the white label insurance products underwritten by other third party providers.
netcost income for pensions include the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of post-employment The Group continues to receive insurance commission arising from the benefit obligations.
sale of insurance policies sold under the Tesco brand through the legacy arrangement with RBS.
This commission income is variable and dependent Key assumptions for post-employment benefit obligations are disclosed upon the profitability of the underlying insurance policies.
Clubcard, loyalty and other initiatives The cost of Clubcard and loyalty initiatives is part of the fair value of the consideration received and is deferred and subsequently recognised over the period that the awards are redeemed.
The deferral is treated as a deduction from revenue.
The fair value of the points awarded is determined with reference to the fair value to the customer and considers factors such as redemption via Clubcard deals versus money-off-in-store and redemption rate.
96 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Property, plant and equipment Note 1 Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated Tesco for Schools & Clubs vouchers are issued by Tesco for redemption depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
by participating schools clubs and are part of our overall Community Plan.
The cost of the redemption i. e meeting the obligation attached to the Property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis to its residual value over its anticipated useful economic life.
The following vouchers is treated as a cost rather than a deduction from sales.
depreciation rates are applied for the Group: Rental income Rental income is recognised in the period in which it is earned, in freehold and leasehold buildings with greater than 40 years unexpired at 2.5% of cost: accordance with the terms of the lease.
leasehold properties with less than 40 years unexpired are depreciated Finance income by equal annual instalments over the unexpired period of the lease: and Finance income, excluding income arising from financial services, is plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings and motor vehicles at rates recognised in the period to which it relates using the effective interest ratemethod.
Finance costs Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, when shorter, over the term of Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Qualifying assets are those that the relevant lease.
necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Group Income Impairment of non-financial assets Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually by assessing the Statement in finance costs, excluding those arising from financial services, in the period in which they occur.
For Tesco Bank, finance cost on financial recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell, liabilities is determined using the effective interest rate method and is recognised in cost of sales.
When the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Business combinations and goodwill Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The Group accounts for all business combinations by applying the purchase method.
All acquisition-related costs are expensed.
For all other non-financial assets including intangible assets and property, On acquisition, the assets including intangible assets, liabilities and plant and equipment the Group performs impairment testing where there are indicators of impairment.
If such an indicator exists, the recoverable contingent liabilities of an acquired entity are measured at their fair value.
Non-controlling interest is stated at the non-controlling interests amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the net fair value of the Groups share of the The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and net assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate and the fair value of the non-controlling interest value in use.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying in the acquiree.
If the consideration is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired amountof the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable entity i. e. a discount on acquisition, the difference is credited to the amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Group Group Income Statement in the period of acquisition.
At the acquisition date of a subsidiary, goodwill acquired is recognised as Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of an asset and is allocated to each of the cash-generating units expected to the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of benefit from the business combinations synergies and to the lowest level the recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does at which management monitors the goodwill.
Goodwill arising on the not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included within the carrying impairment loss had been recognised for the asset or cash-generating value of the investment.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately as a credit to the Group Income Statement.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss Investment property ondisposal.
Investment property assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
The depreciation Intangible assets policies for investment property are consistent with those described for Acquired intangible assets owner-occupied property.
Separately acquired intangible assets, such as software, pharmacy licences, customer relationships, contracts and brands are measured initially at cost.
Short-term and other investments Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair Short-term and other investments in the Group Balance Sheet comprise value at the acquisition date.
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are receivables, loan receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
carried at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, at 2%-100% of cost per annum.
Receivables and loan receivables are recognised at amortised cost.
Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised at fair value.
Internally-generated intangible assets Research and development expenditure Refer to the financial instruments accounting policy for further detail.
Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Development expenditure incurred on an individual project is capitalised only if specific criteria Inventories are met including that the asset created will probably generate future Inventories comprise goods and properties held for resale and properties economic benefits.
held for, or in the course of, development with a view to sell.
Inventories arevalued at the lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell using the Following the initial recognition of development expenditure, the cost weighted average cost basis.
isamortised over the assets estimated useful life at 10%-25% of cost perannum.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 97 Notes to the Group financial statements Share-based payments Note 1 Accounting policies continued The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the grant Cash and cash equivalents date using the Black-Scholes model.
The resulting cost is charged to the Group Income Statement over the vesting period.
The value of the charge Cash and cash equivalents in the Group Balance Sheet consist of cash at bank, in hand, demand deposits with banks, loans and advances to banks, is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
certificate of deposits and other receivables together with short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Taxation The tax expense included in the Group Income Statement consists of Non-current assets held for sale current and deferred tax.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through sale rather than Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair Tax expense is recognised in the Group Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in the Group Statement of Other value less costs to sell.
Comprehensive Income or directly in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, in which case it is recognised in the Group Statement of Other Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease Comprehensive Income or directly in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, respectively.
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing The Group as a lessor for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables at the amount of the Groups net investment in the leases.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Groups net investment in the lease.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
orcredited in the Group Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive income, The Group as a lessee inwhich case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity, or other Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group comprehensive income, respectively.
at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that The corresponding liability is included in the Group Balance Sheet as taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between differences can be utilised.
finance charges and a reduction of the lease obligations so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance Finance charges are charged to the Group Income Statement.
Rentals sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that payable under operating leases are charged to the Group Income sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Sale and leaseback Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when A sale and leaseback transaction is one where the Group sells an asset thereis a legally enforceable right to set-off current taxation assets and immediately reacquires the use of the asset by entering into a lease againstcurrent taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these with the buyer.
The accounting treatment of the sale and leaseback depends upon the Foreign currencies substance of the transaction by applying the lease classification principles Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on described above and whether or not the sale was made at the assets the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets fairvalue.
and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated atthe rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken For sale and finance leasebacks, any profit from the sale is deferred to the Group Income Statement.
and amortised over the lease term.
For sale and operating leasebacks, generally the assets are sold at fair value, and accordingly the profit or loss The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries denominated in from the sale is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
foreign currencies are translated into Pound Sterling at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the Group Balance Sheet: profits and losses are Post-employment and similar obligations translated ataverage exchange rates for the relevant accounting periods.
For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present Exchange differences arising are recognised in the Group Statement of value using the projected unit credit method whilst plan assets are Comprehensive Income and are included in the Groups translation recorded at fair value.
The operating and financing costs of such plans are reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or recognised separately in the Group Income Statement: service costs are expensesin the period in which the operation is disposed of.
spread systematically over the expected service lives of employees and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense as they fall due.
98 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Loan impairment provisions are established on a portfolio basis taking Note 1 Accounting policies continued into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit scores Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most significant factors in establishing these provisions are the expected loss rates.
The portfolios entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
include credit card receivables and other personal advances.
The future credit quality of these portfolios is subject to uncertainties that could cause Financial instruments actual credit losses to differ materially from reported loan impairment provisions.
These uncertainties include the economic environment, notably Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual interest rates and their effect on customer spending, the unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
Interest-bearing borrowings Trade receivables Trade receivables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial fair value, and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between proceeds and redemption value being recognised Investments in the Group Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Investments are recognised at trade date.
Investments are classified as either held for trading or available-for-sale, and are recognised at fair value.
Trade payables For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in the other comprehensive income, until Trade payables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive interest method.
income is included in the Group Income Statement for the period.
Interest calculated using the effective interest rate method is recognised in the Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds Group Income Statement.
Dividends on an available-for-sale equity instrument are recognised in the Group Income Statement when the received, net of direct issue costs.
entitys right to receive payment is established.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Loans and advances to customers The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure Loans and advances to customers are not classified as held for trading nor toforeign exchange, interest rate and commodity risks arising from designated as fair value through profit and loss.
Loans and advances are operating, financing and investing activities.
The Group does not hold initially recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
orissue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes, however, Subsequent to initial recognition, these assets are carried at amortised cost ifderivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting they are accounted for using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
from these financial assets is calculated on an effective yield basis and is recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value.
Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses Impairment of loans and advances to customers on remeasurement are immediately recognised in the Group Income At each balance sheet date the Group reviews the carrying amounts of Statement.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of its loans and advances to determine whether there is any indication that any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
and the item being hedged.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document from inception the relationship between If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also orgroup of financial assets classified as loans and advances has been required to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship incurred, the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets and the the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of testing is performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains assets discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial highly effective.
Impairment losses are assessed individually for financial assets that are individually significant and collectively for assets that are not Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of more than one year individually significant.
In making collective assessments of impairment, from the balance sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
financial assets are grouped into portfolios on the basis of similar risk characteristics.
Future cash flows from these portfolios are estimated on Fair value hedging the basis of the contractual cash flows and historical loss experience for Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
Historical loss experience is when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a adjusted, on the basis of current observable data, to reflect the effects recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that of current conditions not affecting the period of historical experience.
aredesignated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Group Income Statement together with any changes in the fair value of the Impairment losses are recognised in the Group Income Statement and hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
thecarrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets is reduced by establishing an allowance for impairment losses.
If in Cash flow hedging a subsequent period the amount of the impairment loss reduces and Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when the reduction can be ascribed to an event after the impairment was they hedge the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that are either recognised, the previously recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or allowance.
Once an impairment loss has been recognised on a financial liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
The effective element asset or group of financial assets, interest income is recognised on the of any gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative instrument is carrying amount using the rate of interest at which estimated future recognised directly in the other comprehensive income.
cash flows were discounted in measuring impairment.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 99 Notes to the Group financial statements IAS 19 Amended Employee benefits is effective from periods Note 1 Accounting policies continued commencing on or after 1 January 2013.
It eliminates the corridor The associated cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from the other approach and requires immediate recognition of all actuarial gains and losses in the other comprehensive income, immediate recognition of all comprehensive income and recognised in the Group Income Statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction past service costs and the replacement of interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by affects the Group Income Statement.
The classification of the effective portion when recognised in the Group Income Statement is the same applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability asset.
as the classification of the hedged transaction.
Any element of the IFRS 9 Financial instruments is effective from periods commencing remeasurement of the derivative instrument which does not meet the on or after 1 January 2015.
It is the first standard issued as part of a criteria for an effective hedge is recognised immediately in the Group wider project to replace IAS 39.
It retains but simplifies the mixed Income Statement within finance income or costs.
measurement model and establishes two primary measurement categories for financial assets: i amortised cost and ii fair value.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires The basis of classification depends on the entitys business model or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements is effective from periods hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity until the forecasted transaction occurs commencing on or after 1 January 2013.
It builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in or the original hedged item affects the Group Income Statement.
If a forecasted hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements of the parent company.
It also provides additional guidance cumulative gain or loss recognised in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity is reclassified to the Group Income Statement.
to assist in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements is effective from periods commencing Net investment hedging onor after 1 January 2013.
It is a more realistic reflection of joint Derivative financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of the when they hedge the Groups net investment in an overseas operation.
arrangement rather than its legal form.
There are now only two The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from typesofjoint arrangement: joint operations and joint ventures.
remeasuring the derivative instrument is recognised directly in other IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities is effective from comprehensive income.
Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in other periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013.
It includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, comprehensive income are included in the Group Income Statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
Treatment of agreements to acquire non-controlling interests IFRS 13 Fair value measurement is effective from periods commencing The Group has entered into a number of agreements to purchase the on or after 1 January 2013.
It aims to improve consistency and reduce remaining shares of subsidiaries with non-controlling interests.
complexity by providing precise definition of fair value and single sourceof fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for The net present value of the expected future payments are shown as a useacross IFRSs.
At the end of each period, the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any changes recognised in the Group Income Statement IAS 27 Amended Separate financial statements is effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013.
It includes the within finance income or costs.
provisions on separate financial statements that are left after the Provisions control provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new IFRS 10.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected IAS 28 Amended Associates and joint ventures is effective from to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013.
It includes the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, to be equity specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage accounted following the issue of IFRS 11. of time is recognised as interest expense.
IFRS 7 Amended Financial instruments: Disclosures and IAS 32 Provisions for onerous leases are recognised when the Group believes Amended Financial instruments: Presentation are effective from that the unavoidable costs of meeting the lease obligations exceed the 1 January 2013 and 2014 respectively.
The IAS 32 amendment clarifies economic benefits expected to be received under the lease.
Provisions some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial for dilapidation costs are recognised on a lease by lease basis.
liabilities on the statement of financial position while the IFRS 7 amendment will require more extensive disclosures than are Other recent accounting developments required under IFRS.
As of the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards were in issue but not yet effective and not yet been endorsed by Use of non-GAAP profit measures underlying profit before tax the EU.
The Group has not applied these standards in the preparation of The Directors believe that underlying profit before tax and underlying the financial statements: diluted earnings per share measures provide additional useful information for shareholders on underlying trends and performance.
These measures IAS 1 Amended Financial statement presentation regarding other are used for performance analysis.
Underlying profit is not defined by IFRS comprehensive income Presentation of financial statements is effective and therefore may not be directly comparable with other companies from periods commencing on or after 1 July 2012.
The main change adjusted profit measures.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or from this amendment is to require entities to group items presented superior to IFRS measurements of profit.
in other comprehensive income OCI on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to the Group Income Statement subsequently reclassification adjustments.
The amendments do not address which items are presented in OCI.
100 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes fair value of awards.
Note 1 Accounting policies continued The interpretation requires the fair value of customer loyalty awards The adjustments made to reported profit before tax are: to be measured as a separate component of a sales transaction.
The underlying profit measure removes this fair value allocation to present IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements.
underlying business performance, and to reflect the performance of the operating segments as measured by management.
Under IAS 32 and IAS 39, the Group applies hedge accounting to its various hedge relationships when allowed under IAS 39 and when IAS 36 Impairment of Intangibles impairment of goodwill arising practical to do so.
Sometimes the Group is unable to apply hedge on acquisitions.
The remaining carrying value of goodwill relating to accounting to the arrangements but continues to enter into these Japan was not fully recoverable and was fully impaired during the prior arrangements as they provide certainty or active management of the financial year.
The resulting non-cash charge does not reflect the exchange rates and interest rates applicable to the Group.
The Group underlying performance of the Group.
believes these arrangements remain effective and economically and commercially viable hedges despite the inability to apply hedge Restructuring and other one-off costs.
These relate to certain costs associated with the Groups restructuring activities and certain one-off accounting.
Where hedge accounting is not applied to certain hedging arrangements, the reported results reflect the movement in fair value costs including costs relating to fair valuing the assets of a disposal group.
These have been excluded from underlying profit as they do not reflect of related derivatives due to changes in foreign exchange and interest rates.
In addition, at each year end, any gain or loss accruing on open the underlying performance of the Group.
contracts is recognised in the Group Income Statement for the financial year, regardless of the expected outcome of the hedging contract on termination.
This may mean that the Group Income Statement charge is highly volatile, whilst the resulting cash flows may not be as volatile.
The underlying profit measure removes this volatility to help better identify underlying performance of the Group.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits non-cash Group Income Statement charge for pensions.
Under IAS 19, the cost of providing pension benefits in the future is discounted to a present value at the corporate bond yield rates applicable on the last day of the previous financial year.
Corporate bond yield rates vary over time which in turn creates volatility in the Group Income Statement and Group Balance Sheet.
IAS 19 also increases the charge for young pension schemes, such as the Groups, by requiring the use of rates which do not take into account the future expected returns on the assets held in the pension scheme which will fund pension liabilities as they fall due.
The sum of these two effects can make the IAS 19 charge disproportionately higher and more volatile than the cash contributions the Group is required to make in order to fund all future liabilities.
Therefore, within underlying profit the Group has included the normal cash contributions for pensions but excluded the volatile element of IAS 19 to represent what the Group believes to be a fairer measure of the cost of providing post-employment benefits.
IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods.
The amount charged to the Group Income Statement in respect of operating lease costs and incentives is expected to increase significantly as the Group expands its international business.
The leases have been structured in a way to increase annual lease costs as the businesses expand.
IAS 17 requires the total expected cost of a lease to be recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, irrespective of the actual timing of the cost.
This adjustment also impacts the Groups operating profit and rental income within the share of post-tax profits ofjoint ventures and associates.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations intangible asset amortisation charges and costs arising from acquisitions.
Under IFRS 3 intangible assets are separately identified and fair valued.
The intangible assets are required to be amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives and as such is a non-cash charge that does not reflect the underlying performance of the business acquired.
Similarly, the standard requires all acquisition costs to be expensed in the Group Income Statement.
Due to their nature, these costs have been excluded from underlying profit as they do not reflect the underlying performance of the Group.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 101 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 2 Segmental reporting The Groups reporting segments are determined based on the Groups internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The CODM has been determined to be the Executive Committee as it is primarily responsible for the allocation of resources to segments and the assessment of performance of the segments.
During the financial year, the Group announced its decision to sell its operations in Japan previously reported as part of the Asia segment.
Accordingly, these operations have been treated as discontinued as described in more detail in Notes 1 and 7.
The segment results do not include any amounts for these discontinued operations.
The segment assets and other segment information sets out continuing operations separately from discontinued operations.
The CODM now considers the principal activities of the Group to be: Retailing and associated activities in: the UK: Asia China, India, Malaysia, South Korea, Thailand: Europe Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Republic of Ireland, Slovakia, Turkey: and the United States of America US Retail banking and insurance services through Tesco Bank in the UK.
The CODM uses trading profit, as reviewed at monthly Executive Committee meetings, as the key measure of the segments results as it reflects the segments underlying trading performance for the financial year under evaluation.
Trading profit is a consistent measure within the Group.
Segment trading profit is an adjusted measure of operating profit and measures the performance of each segment before profits losses arising on property-related items, the impact on leases of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods, intangible asset amortisation charges and costs arising from acquisitions, and goodwill impairment and restructuring and other one-off costs.
The IAS 19 pension charge is replaced with the normal cash contributions for pensions.
An adjustment is also made for the fair value of customer loyalty awards.
Inter-segment revenue between the operating segments is not material.
The segment results, the reconciliation of the segment measures to the respective statutory items included in the Group Income Statement, the segment assets and other segment information are as follows: Total at Total Tesco constant Foreign at actual Year ended 25 February 2012 UK Asia Europe US Bank exchange exchange exchange At constant exchange rates m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Sales including VAT excluding IFRIC 13 47,355 11,615 11,380 660 1,044 72,054 19 72,035 Revenue excluding IFRIC 13 42,798 10,816 9,878 652 1,044 65,188 22 65,166 Effect of IFRIC 13 550 35 39 2 626 1 627 Revenue 42,248 10,781 9,839 650 1,044 64,562 23 64,539 Trading profit loss 2,480 735 525 158 168 3,750 11 3,761 Trading margin 5.8% 6.8% 5.3% 24.2% 16.1% 5.8% 5.8% Total Tesco at actual Year ended 25 February 2012 UK Asia Europe US Bank exchange At actual exchange rates m m m m m m Continuing operations Sales including VAT excluding IFRIC 13 47,355 11,627 11,371 638 1,044 72,035 Revenue excluding IFRIC 13 42,798 10,828 9,866 630 1,044 65,166 Effect of IFRIC 13 550 35 40 2 627 Revenue 42,248 10,793 9,826 628 1,044 64,539 Trading profit loss 2,480 737 529 153 168 3,761 Trading margin 5.8% 6.8% 5.4% 24.3% 16.1% 5.8% Constant exchange rates are the average actual periodic exchange rates for the previous financial year.
Actual exchange rates are the average actual periodic exchange rates for that financial year.
Trading margin is based on revenue excluding the accounting impact of IFRIC 13.
102 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 2 Segmental reporting continued Total Tesco at actual Year ended 26 February 2011 UK Asia Europe US Bank exchange At actual exchange rates m m m m m m Continuing operations Sales including VAT excluding IFRIC 13 44,571 10,524 10,558 502 919 67,074 Revenue excluding IFRIC 13 40,766 9,802 9,192 495 919 61,174 Effect of IFRIC 13 649 37 33 719 Revenue 40,117 9,765 9,159 495 919 60,455 Trading profit loss 2,504 605 527 186 264 3,714 Trading margin 6.1% 6.2% 5.7% 37.6% 28.7% 6.1% Reconciliation of trading profit to profit before tax 2012 2011 m m Trading profit 3,761 3,714 Adjustments: Profit losses arising on property-related items 376 432 IAS 19 Employee Benefits non-cash Group Income Statement charge for pensions 35 95 IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods 48 64 IFRS 3 Business Combinations intangible asset amortisation charges and costs arising from acquisitions 22 42 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes fair value of awards 17 8 Restructuring and other one-off costs 30 20 Operating profit 3,985 3,917 Share of post-tax profits from joint ventures and associates 91 57 Finance income 176 150 Finance costs 417 483 Profit before tax 3,835 3,641 Taxation 879 864 Profit for the year from continuing operations 2,956 2,777 Segment assets Tesco Other Total UK Asia Europe US Bank unallocated continuing Discontinued Total At 25 February 2012 m m m m m m operations operations m Total segment non-current assets 14,978 8,471 6,835 1,086 4,799 1,749 37,918 37,918 Total segment non-current assets includes: Investments in joint ventures and associates 134 217 72 423 423 Tesco Other Total UK Asia Europe US Bank unallocated continuing Discontinued Total At 26 February 2011 m m m m m m operations operations m Total segment non-current assets 14,456 7,557 6,601 945 4,340 1,187 35,086 81 35,167 Total segment non-current assets includes: Investments in joint ventures and associates 79 173 64 316 316 See Note 1 Accounting policies for details of reclassifications.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 103 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 2 Segmental reporting continued Other segment information Tesco Total UK Asia Europe US Bank continuing Discontinued Total Year ended 25 February 2012 m m m m m operations operations m Capital expenditure including acquisitions through business combinations : Property, plant and equipment 1,495 1,140 663 143 22 3,463 4 3,467 Investment property 8 102 110 110 Goodwill and other intangible assets 179 29 68 22 143 441 441 Depreciation: Property, plant and equipment 617 306 277 45 16 1,261 4 1,265 Investment property 15 24 39 39 Amortisation of intangible assets 113 12 22 44 191 3 194 Impairment losses 27 5 3 9 44 77 121 Reversal of prior year impairment losses 27 1 8 36 36 Tesco Total UK Asia Europe US Bank continuing Discontinued Total Year ended 26 February 2011 m m m m m operations operations m Capital expenditure including acquisitions through business combinations : Property, plant and equipment 1,486 958 603 192 62 3,301 19 3,320 Investment property 17 7 24 24 Goodwill and other intangible assets 159 26 23 82 163 453 2 455 Depreciation: Property, plant and equipment 607 265 263 40 11 1,186 8 1,194 Investment property 17 14 31 31 Amortisation of intangible assets 109 13 22 47 191 4 195 Goodwill impairment losses 55 55 Impairment losses 14 3 8 25 25 Reversal of prior year impairment losses 14 13 11 38 38 See Note 1 Accounting policies for details of reclassifications.
Note 3 Income and expenses 2012 2011 Continuing operations m m Profit before tax is stated after charging crediting the following: Rental income, of which 499m 2011: 417m relates to investment properties 605 541 Direct operating expenses arising on rental earning investment properties 157 122 Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 48,910 45,529 Stock losses 1,155 1,023 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charged 1,499 1,395 Operating lease expense, of which 133m 2011: 53m relates to hire of plant and machinery 1,247 1,033 See Note 1 Accounting policies for details of reclassifications.
104 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 3 Income and expenses continued During the financial year the Group obtained the following services from the Groups auditor,  LLP, and network firms: 2012 2011 m m Audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Company and Group financial statements 0.7 0.6 The audit of the accounts of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 3.9 3.6 4.6 4.2 Non-audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and network firms for other services: Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 Other services relating to taxation 0.6 0.7 Other services relating to information technology 0.4 0.3 All other services 1.5 0.6 Total auditor remuneration 7.1 5.9 In addition to the amounts shown above, the auditors received fees of 0.1m 2011: 0.1m for the audit of the main Group pension scheme.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 58 and includes how objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by  LLP.
Note 4 Employment costs, including Directors remuneration 2012 2011 Continuing operations m m Wages and salaries 5,719 5,409 Social security costs 473 464 Post-employment defined benefits Note 26 492 528 Post-employment defined contributions Note 26 20 14 Share-based payments expense Note 25 153 287 6,857 6,702 The average number of employees by operating segment during the financial year was: Average number Average number of of employees full-time equivalents 2012 2011 2012 2011 UK 300,373 293,676 205,852 200,966 Asia 117,015 99,704 108,149 94,141 Europe 94,409 89,559 85,071 82,270 US 5,056 4,134 4,297 3,448 Tesco Bank 2,818 1,274 2,719 1,224 Total 519,671 488,347 406,088 382,049 See Note 1 Accounting policies for details of reclassifications.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 105 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 5 Finance income and costs 2012 2011 Continuing operations m m Finance income Bank interest receivable and similar income on cash and cash equivalents 114 131 Net pension finance income Note 26 18 IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements 44 19 Total finance income 176 150 Finance costs Interest payable on short-term bank loans and overdrafts repayable within five years 62 101 Finance charges payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 11 10 GBP MTN 226 233 EUR MTN 180 194 USD MTN 67 57 Other MTNs 11 17 Capitalised interest Note 11 140 147 Total finance costs 417 465 Net pension finance cost Note 26 18 Total finance costs 417 483 GBP MTNs Interest payable on the 4% RPI GBP MTN 2016 includes 13m 2011: 12m of Retail Price Index RPI related amortisation.
Interest payable on the 3.322% LPI GBP MTN 2025 includes 13m 2011: 10m of RPI related amortisation.
Interest payable on the 1.982% RPI GBP MTN 2036 includes 11m 2011: 11m of RPI related amortisation.
Note 6 Taxation Recognised in the Group Income Statement 2012 2011 Continuing operations m m Current tax expense UK corporation tax 579 694 Foreign tax 196 181 Adjustments in respect of prior years 42 114 733 761 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 230 148 Adjustments in respect of prior years 12 12 Change in tax rate 72 57 146 103 Total income tax expense 879 864 The Finance Act 2011 included legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 27% to 26% from 1 April 2011 and to 25% from 1 April 2012.
The reduction from 27% to 25% was substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and has therefore been reflected in these Group financial statements.
In addition to the changes in rates of corporation tax disclosed above, a number of further changes to the UK corporation tax system were announced in both the March 2011 and March 2012 UK Budget Statements.
A resolution passed by Parliament on 26 March 2012 reduced the main rate of corporation tax to 24% from 1 April 2012.
Legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 24% to 23% from 1 April 2013 is expected to be included in the Finance Act 2012.
Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate to 22% by 1 April 2014.
None of these expected rate reductions had been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are therefore not reflected in these Group financial statements.
The effect of the changes enacted by Parliament on 26 March 2012 to reduce the corporation tax rate from 25% to 24%, with effect from 1 April 2012, is to reduce the deferred tax liability provided at the balance sheet date by 35m 53m increase in profit and 18m decrease in other comprehensive income.
The proposed reductions of the main rate of corporation tax by 1% per annum to 22% by 1 April 2014 are expected to be enacted separately each year.
The overall effect of the further changes from 24% to 22%, if these applied to the deferred tax balance at the balance sheet date, would be to reduce the deferred tax liability by 70m being 35m recognised in 2013 and 35m recognised in 2014.
106 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 6 Taxation continued Reconciliation of effective tax charge 2012 2011 m m Profit before tax 3,835 3,641 Tax charge at 26.2% 2011: 28.0% 1,005 1,019 Effect of: Non-deductible expenses 86 107 Differences in overseas taxation rates 72 99 Adjustments in respect of prior years 54 102 Share of profits of joint ventures and associates 14 4 Change in tax rate 72 57 Total income tax charge for the year 879 864 Effective tax rate 22.9% 23.7% See Note 1 Accounting Policies for details of reclassifications.
Tax on items credited directly to the Group Statement of Changes in Equity 2012 2011 m m Current tax charge credit on: Share-based payments 1 7 Deferred tax charge on: Share-based payments 5 7 Total tax on items charged to Group Statement of Changes in Equity 6 Tax relating to components of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 2012 2011 m m Current tax credit charge on: Foreign exchange movements 6 31 Fair value of movement on available-for-sale investments 2 1 Deferred tax credit charge on: Pensions 94 184 Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 25 1 Total tax on items credited charged to Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 73 153 Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior financial years: Other PropertyRetirement Short-term pre post related benefit Share-based timing Financial tax temporary items obligation payments differences Tax losses Instruments differences Total m m m m m m m m At 27 February 2010 1,496 511 56 91 41 36 4 757 Charge credit to the Group Income Statement 101 35 2 5 10 33 3 103 Charge to Group Statement of Changes in Equity 7 7 Charge credit to Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 184 1 183 Foreign exchange and other movements 5 2 1 4 At 26 February 2011 1,592 362 47 94 32 4 7 1,046 Charge credit to the Group Income Statement 93 9 31 33 3 1 146 Charge to Group Statement of Changes in Equity 5 5 Credit charge to Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 94 25 69 Discontinued operations 14 14 Business combinations 1 3 1 1 4 Foreign exchange and other movements 3 2 2 1 At 25 February 2012 1,689 465 11 64 24 22 10 1,137 Property-related items include deferred tax liability on rolled over gains of 361m 2011: 335m and deferred tax assets on capital losses of 71m 2011: 70m.
The remaining balance relates to accelerated tax depreciation.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 107 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 6 Taxation continued Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset and analysed as follows: 2012 2011 m m Deferred tax assets 23 48 Deferred tax liabilities 1,160 1,094 1,137 1,046 No deferred tax is recognised on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures, on the grounds that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary difference unrecognised at the year end amounted to 3.4bn 2011: 3.0bn.
The deferred tax on unremitted earnings at 25 February 2012 is estimated to be 161m 2011: 90m which relates to taxes payable on repatriation and dividend withholding taxes levied by overseas tax jurisdictions.
UK tax legislation relating to company distributions provides for exemption from tax for most repatriated profits, subject to certain exceptions.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets in relation to continuing operations have not been recognised in respect of the following items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits : 2012 2011 m m Deductible temporary differences 29 19 Tax losses 484 403 513 422 As at 25 February 2012, the Group has unused trading tax losses from continuing operations of 1,523m 2011: 1,309m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 110m 2011: 109m of such losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised inrespect of the remaining 1,413m 2011: 1,200m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of 479m that will expire in 2016 2011: 390m in 2015 and 879m that will expire between 2017 and 2032 2011: 744m between 2016 and 2031.
Other losses will be carried forward indefinitely.
Note 7 Discontinued operations and non-current assets classified as held for sale 25 February 26 February 2012 2011 m m Assets of the disposal group 65 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 445 431 Total assets of the disposal group and non-current assets classified as held for sale 510 431 Total liabilities of the disposal group 69 Total net assets classified as held for sale 441 431 The non-current assets held for sale consist mainly of properties in the UK and Thailand due to be sold within one year.
Discontinued operations The tables below show the results of the discontinued operations in relation to the Groups decision to sell its operations in Japan which are included in the Group Income Statement, Group Balance Sheet and Group Cash Flow Statement respectively.
52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 February 26 February 2012 2011 m m Revenue 436 476 Cost of sales 539 541 Administrative expenses 23 36 Loss arising on property related items 1 5 Finance costs 1 Loss before tax on discontinued operations 128 106 Taxation 14 Loss for the year from discontinued operations 142 106 Loss per share impact from discontinued operations Basic 1.77p 1.33p Diluted 1.76p 1.31p Including operating lease expense of 27m 2011: 32m.
108 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 7 Discontinued operations and non-current assets classified as held for sale continued 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 February 26 February 2012 2011 m m Non-GAAP measure: underlying loss before tax Loss before tax on discontinued operations 128 106 Adjustments for: Restructuring and other one-off costs Restructuring costs 23 9 Store impairment cost relating to fair value of assets of the disposal group 57 Intangible asset impairment cost relating to fair value of assests of the disposal group 20 100 9 IAS 36 Impairments of Assets impairment of goodwill arising on acquisitions 55 Underlying loss before tax on discontinued operations 28 42 Balance Sheet 25 February 2012 m Assets of the disposal group Inventories 16 Trade and other receivables 43 Cash and cash equivalents 6 Total assets of the disposal group 65 Liabilities of the disposal group Trade and other payables 68 Borrowings 1 Total liabilities of the disposal group 69 Total net liabilities of the disposal group 4 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases associated with operations in Japan amount to 113m.
Cash Flow Statement 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 February 26 February 2012 2011 m m Net cash flows from operating activities 53 50 Net cash flows from investing activities 6 27 Net cash flows from financing activities 46 73 Net cash flows from discontinued operations 1 4 Note 8 Dividends 2012 2011 pence share m pence share m Amounts recognised as distributions to owners in the financial year: Final dividend for the prior financial year 10.09 811 9.16 730 Interim dividend for the current financial year 4.63 369 4.37 351 14.72 1,180 13.53 1,081 Proposed final dividend for the current financial year 10.13 815 10.09 812 The proposed final dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 17 April 2012 and is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The proposed dividend has not been included as a liability as at 25 February 2012, in accordance with IAS 10 Events After the Balance Sheet Date.
It will be paid on 6 July 2012 to shareholders who are on the Register of members at close of business on 27 April 2012.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 109 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 9 Earnings per share and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year adjusted for the effects of potentially dilutive options.
The dilutive effect is calculated on the full exercise of all potentially dilutive ordinary share options granted by the Group, including performance-based options which the Group considers to have been earned.
2012 2011 Potentially Potentially dilutive dilutive Basic share options Diluted Basic share options Diluted Profit loss m Continuing operations 2,948 2,948 2,761 2,761 Discontinued operations 142 142 106 106 Weighted average number of shares millions 8,021 24 8,045 8,020 41 8,061 Earnings per share pence Continuing operations 36.75 0.11 36.64 34.43 0.18 34.25 Discontinued operations 1.77 0.01 1.76 1.33 0.02 1.31 Total 34.98 0.10 34.88 33.10 0.16 32.94 There have been no transactions involving ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of approval of these financial statements which would significantly change the earnings per share calculations shown above.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP underlying diluted earnings per share 2012 2011 m pence share m pence share Profit from continuing operations Diluted 2,948 36.64 2,761 34.25 Adjustments for: IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements 44 0.54 19 0.24 IAS 19 Employee Benefits non-cash Group Income Statement charge for pensions 17 0.21 113 1.40 IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods 38 0.47 48 0.60 IFRS 3 Business Combinations intangible asset amortisation charges and costs arising from acquisitions 22 0.27 42 0.52 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes fair value of awards 17 0.21 80.10 Restructuring and other one-off costs 30 0.37 20 0.25 Tax effect of adjustments at the effective rate of tax 2012: 22.9%, 2011: 23.7% 18 0.22 50 0.62 Underlying earnings from continuing operations 3,010 37.41 2,923 36.26 See Note 1 Accounting policies for details of reclassifications.
The effective tax rate of 22.9% 2011: 23.7% excludes certain permanent differences on which tax relief is not available.
110 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets Internally Pharmacy generated and Other development software intangible costs licences assets Goodwill Total m m m m m Cost At 26 February 2011 1,300 563 342 3,600 5,805 Foreign currency translation 2 2 34 34 Additions 261 77 3 100 441 Reclassification 104 120 3 19 Disposals 4 1 5 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 1 32 186 219 At 25 February 2012 1,454 726 347 3,548 6,075 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 26 February 2011 672 288 223 284 1,467 Foreign currency translation 1 1 Amortisation for the year 106 69 19 194 Impairment losses for the year 1 19 20 Disposals 4 1 5 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 1 32 186 219 At 25 February 2012 777 340 241 99 1,457 Net carrying value At 25 February 2012 677 386 106 3,449 4,618 At 26 February 2011 628 275 119 3,316 4,338 Internally Pharmacy generated and Other development software intangible costs licences assets Goodwill Total m m m m m Cost At 27 February 2010 1,133 368 335 3,566 5,402 Foreign currency translation 5 2 48 55 Additions 243 128 2 82 455 Reclassification 74 74 7 7 Disposals 2 2 4 At 26 February 2011 1,300 563 342 3,600 5,805 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 27 February 2010 574 242 180 229 1,225 Foreign currency translation 5 5 Amortisation for the year 100 52 43 195 Impairment losses for the year 55 55 Disposals 2 1 3 At 26 February 2011 672 288 223 284 1,467 Net carrying value At 26 February 2011 628 275 119 3,316 4,338 At 27 February 2010 559 126 155 3,337 4,177 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 111 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Impairment of goodwill Goodwill arising on business combinations is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of cash-generating units according to the level at which management monitor that goodwill.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are based on the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Value in use is calculated from cash flow projections for generally five years using data from the Groups latest internal forecasts, the results of which are reviewed by the Board.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, growth rates and expected changes in margins.
Management estimate discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating units.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market.
Giventhe current economic climate, a sensitivity analysis has been performed in assessing the recoverable amounts of goodwill.
The pre-tax discount rates used to calculate value in use range from 6% to 17% 2011: 8% to 14%.
On a post-tax basis, the discount rates ranged from 5% to 13% 2011: 6% to 12%.
These discount rates are derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital, as adjusted for the specific risks relating to each geographical region.
The forecasts are extrapolated beyond five years based on estimated long-term average growth rates of 1% to 5% 2011: 2% to 5%.
In February 2012 and 2011 impairment reviews were performed by comparing the carrying value of goodwill with the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The components of goodwill are as follows: 2012 2011 m m China 622 582 Czech Republic 73 34 Malaysia 86 83 Poland 388 401 South Korea 479 468 Tesco Bank 802 802 Thailand 165 161 Turkey 46 50 UK 681 645 US 102 78 Other 5 12 3,449 3,316 112 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 11 Property, plant and equipment Land and a buildings Other Total m m m Cost At 26 February 2011 23,479 9,091 32,570 Foreign currency translation 14 11 25 b Additions 2,286 1,172 3,458 Acquisitions through business combinations 3 6 9 Reclassification 63 63 Classified as held for sale 53 11 64 Disposals 843 198 1,041 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 34 38 72 At 25 February 2012 24,761 10,011 34,772 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 26 February 2011 2,705 5,467 8,172 Foreign currency translation 10 11 21 Charge for the year 429 836 1,265 Impairment losses for the year 74 25 99 Reversal of impairment losses for the year 36 36 Reclassification 5 5 Classified as held for sale 5 7 12 Disposals 177 161 338 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 34 38 72 At 25 February 2012 2,951 6,111 9,062 c d Net carrying value At 25 February 2012 21,810 3,900 25,710 At 26 February 2011 20,774 3,624 24,398 e Construction in progress included above At 25 February 2012 1,246 44 1,290 a Other assets consist of plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings and motor vehicles.
b Includes 140m 2011: 147m in respect of interest capitalised, principally relating to land and building assets.
The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of finance costs capitalised during the financial year was 5.1% 2011: 5.1%.
Interest capitalised is deducted in determining taxable profit in the financial year in which it is incurred.
c Net carrying value includes: i Capitalised interest at 25 February 2012 of 1,185m 2011: 1,084m.
ii Assets held under finance leases which are analysed below: 2012 2011 Land and Land and a a buildings Other buildings Other m m m m Cost 149 574 139 580 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 37 495 24 462 Net carrying value 112 79 115 118 These assets are pledged as security for the finance lease liabilities.
d The net carrying value of land and buildings comprises: 2012 2011 m m Freehold 19,016 18,094 Long leasehold 50 years or more 676 677 Short leasehold less than 50 years 2,118 2,003 Net carrying value 21,810 20,774 e Construction in progress does not include land.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 113 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 11 Property, plant and equipment continued Land and a buildings Other Total m m m Cost At 27 February 2010 23,385 8,398 31,783 Foreign currency translation 257 153 410 b Additions 2,577 697 3,274 Acquisitions through business combinations 22 24 46 Reclassification 673 301 372 Classified as held for sale 110 110 Disposals 1,465 176 1,641 At 26 February 2011 23,479 9,091 32,570 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 27 February 2010 2,700 4,880 7,580 Foreign currency translation 21 55 76 Charge for the year 412 782 1,194 Impairment losses for the year 20 3 23 Reversal of impairment losses for the year 38 38 Reclassification 199 3 196 Classified as held for sale 29 29 Disposals 140 146 286 At 26 February 2011 2,705 5,467 8,172 c d Net carrying value At 26 February 2011 20,774 3,624 24,398 At 27 February 2010 20,685 3,518 24,203 e Construction in progress included above At 26 February 2011 1,267 196 1,463 b c d e See page 113 for footnotes.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment The Group has determined that for the purposes of impairment testing, each store is a cash-generating unit.
Cash-generating units are tested for impairment if there are indications of impairment at the balance sheet date.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are mainly based on value in use, which is generally calculated from cash flow projections for five to twenty years using data from the Groups latest internal forecasts, the results of which are reviewed by the Board.
The forecasts are extrapolated beyond five years based on estimated long-term growth rates of 1% to 5% 2011: 2% to 5%.
The pre-tax discount rates used to calculate value in use range from 6% to 17% 2011: 6% to 14% depending on the specific conditions in which each store operates.
The impairment losses relate to stores whose recoverable amounts do not exceed the asset carrying values.
In all cases, impairment losses arose due to stores performing below forecasted trading levels.
The reversal of previous impairment losses arose principally due to improvements in stores performances over the last year, which increased the net present value of future cash flows.
114 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 12 Investment property 2012 2011 m m Cost At beginning of the year 2,092 1,919 Foreign currency translation 9 35 Additions 14 24 Acquisitions through business combinations 96 Reclassification 44 197 Classified as held for sale 23 2 Disposals 7 11 At end of the year 2,253 2,092 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At beginning of the year 229 188 Foreign currency translation 2 3 Charge for the year 39 31 Impairment losses for the year 2 2 Reclassification 6 11 At end of the year 262 229 Net carrying value at end of the year 1,991 1,863 The estimated fair value of the Groups investment property is 4.3bn 2011: 4.4bn.
This fair value has been determined by applying an appropriate rental yield to the rentals earned by the investment property.
A valuation has not been performed by an independent valuer.
Note 13 Group entities Principal subsidiaries The Group consolidates its subsidiary undertakings and its principal subsidiaries are: Share of issued Country of incorporation ordinary share capital and principal country Business activity and voting rights of operation Tesco Stores Limited Retail 100% England One Stop Stores Limited Retail 100% England Tesco Ireland Limited Retail 100% Republic of Ireland Tesco-Global Stores Privately Held Co. Limited Retail 100% Hungary Tesco Polska Sp.
Retail 100% Poland Tesco Stores C R a. s. Retail 100% Czech Republic Tesco Stores S R a. s. Retail 100% Slovakia Tesco Kipa Kitle Paza rlama Ticaret five Gide Sanai A. S. Retail 95% Turkey Homeplus Co. Limited Retail 100% South Korea Homeplus Tesco Co. Limited Retail 100% South Korea Ek-Chai Distribution System Co. Limited Retail 86% Thailand Tesco Stores Malaysia Sdn Bhd Retail 70% Malaysia Tesco Japan Co. Limited Retail 100% Japan Tesco Management Shanghai Co. Limited Retail 100% Peoples Republic of China Dobbies Garden Centres Limited Retail 100% Scotland Fresh & Easy Neighborhood Market Inc Retail 100% US Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited trading as Tesco Bank Financial Services 100% Scotland Tesco Distribution Limited Distribution 100% England Tesco Property Holdings Limited Property 100% England Tesco International Sourcing Limited Purchasing 100% Hong Kong dunnhumby Limited Data Analysis 100% England ELH Insurance Limited Self-insurance 100% Guernsey Valiant Insurance Company Limited Self-insurance 100% Republic of Ireland Held by the Parent Company all other principal subsidiaries are held by an intermediate subsidiary.
The Group has 86% of voting rights and 39% of issued ordinary share capital in Ek-Chai Distribution System Co. Limited.
The accounting period ends of the subsidiary undertakings consolidated in these financial statements are on or around 25 February 2012.
A full list of the Groups subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the next Annual Return filed at Companies House.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of subsidiary undertakings to transfer funds to the parent, other than those imposed by the Companies Act 2006.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 115 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 13 Group entities continued Interests in joint ventures and associates The Group uses the equity method of accounting for its interest in joint ventures and associates.
The following table shows the aggregate movement in the Groups investment in joint ventures and associates: Joint ventures Associates Total m m m At 27 February 2010 136 16 152 Additions 88 86 174 Foreign currency translation 5 5 Share of post-tax profits losses of joint ventures and associates 65 8 57 Income received from joint ventures and associates 60 2 62 At 26 February 2011 224 92 316 Additions 49 49 Disposals 8 8 Foreign currency translation 12 12 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates 71 20 91 Other movements in reserves 33 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 40 40 At 25 February 2012 308 115 423 Significant joint ventures The Groups principal joint ventures are: Share of issued share Country of incorporation capital, loan capital and and principal country Business activity debt securities of operation Shopping Centres Limited Property Investment 50% England BLT Properties Limited Property Investment 50% England The Tesco British Land Property Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Red Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Aqua Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Jade Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Coral Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Blue Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Atrato Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Property Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Passaic Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Navona Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Sarum Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England Fushun Splendor Real Estate Development Co. Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Anshan Tesco Real Estate Development Co. Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Tesco Qinhuangdo Property Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Xiamen Hete Property Co. Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Tesco Fujian Property Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Tesco Shenyang Property Co. Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Tesco Fujian Industry Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Tesco Nanjing Zhongshan Real Estate Development Co. Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Arena Jersey Management Limited Property Investment 50% Jersey The Tesco Property No.
2 Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% Jersey Tesco Mobile Limited Telecommunications 50% England Held by the Parent Company all other principal subsidiaries are held by an intermediate subsidiary.
The accounting period ends of the joint ventures consolidated in these financial statements range from 31 December 2011 to 29 February 2012.
Accounting period end dates differ from those of the Group for commercial reasons and depend upon the requirements of the joint venture partner as well as those of the Group.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of joint ventures to transfer funds to the parent, other than those imposed by the Companies Act 2006.
116 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 13 Group entities continued The share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and profit of the joint ventures, which are included in the Group financial statements, are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Non-current assets 3,173 2,720 Current assets 868 577 Current liabilities 2,180 1,957 Non-current liabilities 1,678 1,123 Goodwill 7 7 Net assets 190 224 Cumulative unrecognised losses 118 Interests in joint ventures 308 224 Revenue 492 369 Profit for the year 71 65 Associates The Groups principal associates are: Share of issued share capital, Country of incorporation loan capital and debt and principal country Business activity securities of operation Greenergy International Limited Fuel Supplier 34.4% England Tesco Underwriting Limited Insurance 49.9% England The share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and profit of the Groups associates, which are included in the Group financial statements, are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Assets 782 535 Liabilities 673 452 Goodwill 6 9 Interests in associates 115 92 Revenue 3,791 1,551 Profit loss for the year 20 8 The accounting period ends of the associates consolidated in these financial statements range from 31 December 2011 to 29 February 2012.
The accounting period end dates of the associates are different from those of the Group as they depend upon the requirements of the parent companies of those entities.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of associated undertakings to transfer funds to the parent, other than those imposed by the Companies Act 2006.
Includes 59m relating to cumulative unrecognised losses.
Held by an intermediate subsidiary.
Note 14 Other investments 2012 2011 m m Loan receivable 259 259 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,267 679 1,526 938 See Note 1 Accounting policies for details of reclassifications.
The loan receivable includes an interest-free subordinated loan made by Tesco Bank to Direct Line Insurance Group Plc formerly Royal Bank of Scotland Insurance Group Limited.
This loan has no interest receivable and no fixed repayment date.
Available-for-sale financial assets comprise investments in bonds with varied maturities of which 158m 2011: 32m is current.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 117 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 15 Inventories 2012 2011 m m Goods held for resale 3,537 3,142 Development properties 61 20 3,598 3,162 Note 16 Trade and other receivables 2012 2011 m m Prepayments and accrued income 420 387 Other receivables 1,848 1,416 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates Note 28 389 527 2,657 2,330 Included within trade and other receivables are the following amounts receivable after more than one year: 2012 2011 m m Prepayments and accrued income 36 31 Other receivables 377 378 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 269 432 682 841 Trade and other receivables are generally non interest-bearing.
Credit terms vary by country and the nature of the debt, ranging from seven to sixty days.
As at 25 February 2012, trade and other receivables of 30m 2011: 37m were past due and impaired.
The amount of the provision was 50m 2011: 44m.
The ageing analysis of these receivables is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Up to three months past due 5 4 Three to six months past due 3 3 Over six months past due 22 30 30 37 As at 25 February 2012, trade and other receivables of 415m 2011: 144m were past due but not impaired.
The ageing analysis of these receivables is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Up to three months past due 194 114 Three to six months past due 114 13 Over six months past due 107 17 415 144 No receivables have been renegotiated in the current or prior financial years.
118 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 17 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank has loans and advances to customers.
2012 2011 m m Non-current 1,901 2,127 Current 2,502 2,514 4,403 4,641 The maturity of these loans and advances is as follows: 2012 2011 At 25 February 2012 m m Repayable on demand or at short notice 1 1 Within three months 2,557 2,572 Greater than three months but less than one year 46 47 Greater than one year but less than five years 1,396 1,700 After five years 588 503 4,588 4,823 Provision for impairment of loans and advances 185 182 4,403 4,641 At 25 February 2012, 1.2bn of the credit card portfolio had its legal interest assigned to a special purpose entity for use as collateral in securitisation transactions 2011: 1.4bn.
As a result of the early repayment in May 2011, there are no securitisation notes in issue as at 25 February 2012 2011:1.2bn.
Provision for impairment of loans and advances m At 27 February 2010 314 Charge for the year 131 Amounts written off 268 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 9 Unwind of discount 4 At 26 February 2011 182 Charge for the year 119 Amounts written off 120 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 8 Unwind of discount 4 At 25 February 2012 185 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 119 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 17 Loans and advances to customers continued At 25 February 2012, Tesco Banks non-accrual loans were 194m 2011: 212m.
Loan impairment provisions of 185m 2011: 182m were held against these loans.
During the financial year ended 25 February 2012, the gross income not recognised but which would have been recognised under the original terms of non-accrual loans was 13m 2011: 8m.
At 25 February 2012, loans and advances to customers of 74m 2011 : 73m were past due but not impaired.
The ageing analysis of these loans and advances is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Up to one month past due 50 54 Up to two months past due 14 13 Two to three months past due 10 6 74 73 Note 18 Cash and cash equivalents 2012 2011 m m Cash at bank and in hand 1,995 1,769 Short-term deposits 182 85 Certificates of deposit 35 170 Loans and advances to banks 93 404 Cash and cash equivalents 2,305 2,428 Cash of 1,243m 2011: 1,022m held on money market funds is classed as short-term investments.
Note 19 Trade and other payables 2012 2011 m m Trade payables 5,971 5,782 Other taxation and social security 462 514 Other payables 2,651 2,274 Amounts payable to joint ventures and associates Note 28 404 4 Accruals and deferred income 1,746 1,910 11,234 10,484 Included in other payables are amounts of 223m 2011: 181m which are non-current.
Includes 264m payable to Greenergy International Limited.
The 1% RPI Tesco Bank Retail Bond is redeemable at par, including indexation for increases in the RPI over the life of the Bond.
The 3.322% Limited Price Inflation LPI MTN is redeemable at par, including indexation for increases in the RPI over the life of the MTN.
The maximum indexation of the principal in any one year is 5%, with a minimum of 0%.
The 1.982% RPI MTN is redeemable at par, including indexation for increases in the RPI over the life of the MTN.
Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn committed facilities available at 25 February 2012, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met as at that date: 2012 2011 m m Expiring in more than two years 2,825 2,825 All facilities incur commitment fees at market rates and would provide funding at floating rates.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 121 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 21 Financial instruments Derivatives are used to hedge exposure to market risks and those that are held as hedging instruments are formally designated as hedges as defined in IAS 39.
Derivatives may qualify as hedges for accounting purposes and the Groups hedging policies are further described below.
Finance income of 3m 2011: 27m resulted from hedge ineffectiveness.
Fair value hedges The Group maintains interest rate and cross currency swap contracts as fair value hedges of the interest rate and currency risk on fixed rate debt issued by the Group.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Group Income Statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument and hedged item is recognised in the Group Income Statement within finance income or costs.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria forhedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying value of the hedged item is amortised to the Group Income Statement under the effective interest rate method.
A gain of 263m on hedging instruments was recognised during the financial year, offset by a loss of 260m on hedged items 2011: a loss of 369m on hedging instruments was offset by a gain of 396m on hedged items.
Cash flow hedges The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge the cost of future purchases of goods for resale where those purchases are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the purchasing company.
Where these contracts qualify for hedge accounting, mark-to-market gains and losses are deferred in equity.
These hedging instruments are primarily used to hedge purchases in Euros and US Dollars.
The cash flows hedged will occur and will affect the Group Income Statement within one year of the balance sheet date.
The Group also uses index-linked swaps to hedge cash flows on index-linked debt, interest rate swaps to hedge interest cash flows on debt and cross currency swaps to hedge intercompany loan cash flows denominated in foreign currencies.
Net investment hedges The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts, currency denominated borrowings and currency swaps to hedge the exposure of a portion of its non-Sterling denominated assets against changes in value due to changes in foreign exchange rates.
At the start of the year the Group had a South Korean Won denominated liability relating to the future purchase of the minority shareholding of its subsidiary, Homeplus Co. Limited.
This liability was designated as a net investment hedge of a proportion of the assets of Homeplus Co. Limited.
Thisoption was exercised during the financial year.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Group Income Statement on disposal of the overseas operations.
Financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting The Groups policy is not to use derivatives for trading purposes.
However, some derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting or are specifically not designated as a hedge where gains and losses on the hedging instrument and the hedged item naturally offset in the Group Income Statement.
These instruments include caps, interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement within finance income or costs.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments have been disclosed in the Group Balance Sheet as follows: 2012 2011 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m Current 41 128 148 255 Non-current 1,726 688 1,139 600 1,767 816 1,287 855 122 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 21 Financial instruments continued The fair value and notional amounts of derivatives analysed by hedge type are as follows: 2012 2011 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 96 1,751 68 2,031 27 1,410 57 1,844 Cross currency swaps 818 2,686 8 269 717 2,674 28 714 Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 132 400 54 455 Cross currency swaps 233 304 41 988 126 298 151 784 Index-linked swaps 30 809 8 772 Forward foreign currency contracts 23 733 21 1,211 8346 12 1,269 Net investment hedges Forward foreign currency contracts 7 969 19 383 97 952 Future purchases of non-controlling interests 106 Cash flow hedges and net investment hedges Cross currency swaps 1 318 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 3 25 1 25 125 1 25 Cross currency swaps 3 146 4 56 284 10 65 Index-linked swaps 539 3,149 468 3,149 376 2,639 311 2,639 Forward foreign currency contracts 22 923 62 1,282 11 523 20 720 Future purchases of non-controlling interests 3 Total 1,767 10,526 816 10,698 1,287 8,382 855 10,239 The carrying value and fair value of financial assets and liabilities are as follows: 2012 2011 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value m m m m Assets Cash and cash equivalents 2,305 2,305 2,428 2,428 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank 4,403 4,440 4,641 4,636 Short-term investments 1,243 1,243 1,022 1,022 Other investments Tesco Bank 1,526 1,524 938 923 Joint venture and associates loan receivables Note 28 384 384 503 514 Other receivables 10 10 25 25 Derivative financial assets: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 99 99 28 28 Cross currency swaps 1,054 1,054 845 845 Index-linked swaps 569 569 376 376 Forward foreign currency contracts 45 45 38 38 Total financial assets 11,638 11,673 10,844 10,835 Liabilities Short-term borrowings: Amortised cost 1,806 1,841 708 707 Bonds in fair value hedge relationships 628 614 Long-term borrowings: Amortised cost 4,575 4,966 4,584 4,678 Bonds in fair value hedge relationships 5,202 5,140 4,957 4,915 Finance leases Group as lessee Note 34 166 166 198 198 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 5,387 5,410 5,074 5,081 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 78 78 36 36 Derivative and other financial liabilities: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 201 201 112 112 Cross currency swaps 54 54 189 189 Index-linked swaps 468 468 319 319 Forward foreign currency contracts 90 90 129 129 Future purchases of non-controlling interests 3 3 106 106 Total financial liabilities 18,030 18,417 17,040 17,084 Total 6,392 6,744 6,196 6,249 See Note 1 Accounting policies for details of reclassifications.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 123 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 21 Financial instruments continued The fair values of financial instruments have been determined by reference to prices available from the markets on which the instruments are traded, where they are available.
Where market prices are not available, the fair value has been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments is the same as their carrying value.
Financial assets and liabilities by category The accounting classifications of each class of financial assets and liabilities as at 25 February 2012 and 26 February 2011 are as follows: Loans and receivables Fair value Availableother financial through for-sale liabilities profit or loss Total At 25 February 2012 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 35 2,270 2,305 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank 4,403 4,403 Short-term investments 1,243 1,243 Other investments Tesco Bank 1,267 259 1,526 Joint venture and associates loan receivables Note 28 384 384 Other receivables 10 10 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 5,387 5,387 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 78 78 Short-term borrowings 1,806 1,806 Long-term borrowings 9,777 9,777 Finance leases Note 34 166 166 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 102 102 Cross currency swaps 1,000 1,000 Index-linked swaps 101 101 Forward foreign currency contracts 45 45 Future purchases of non-controlling interests 3 3 1,302 8,645 951 6,392 Loans and receivables Fair value Availableother financial through for-sale liabilities profit or loss Total At 26 February 2011 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 170 2,258 2,428 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank 4,641 4,641 Short-term investments 1,022 1,022 Other investments Tesco Bank 679 259 938 Joint venture and associates loan receivables Note 28 503 503 Other receivables 25 25 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 5,074 5,074 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 36 36 Short-term borrowings 1,336 1,336 Long-term borrowings 9,541 9,541 Finance leases Note 34 198 198 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 84 84 Cross currency swaps 656 656 Index-linked swaps 57 57 Forward foreign currency contracts 91 91 Future purchases of non-controlling interests 106 106 849 7,477 432 6,196 See Note 1 Accounting policies for details of reclassifications.
124 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 21 Financial instruments continued The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 25 February 2012, by level of fair value hierarchy: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly thatis, derived from prices Level 2 : and inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 25 February 2012 m m m m Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 542 760 1,302 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 99 99 Cross currency swaps 1,054 1,054 Index-linked swaps 569 569 Forward foreign currency contracts 45 45 Total assets 542 2,527 3,069 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 201 201 Cross currency swaps 54 54 Index-linked swaps 468 468 Forward foreign currency contracts 90 90 Future purchases of non-controlling interests 3 3 Total liabilities 813 3 816 Total 542 1,714 3 2,253 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 26 February 2011 m m m m Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 188 661 849 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 28 28 Cross currency swaps 845 845 Index-linked swaps 376 376 Forward foreign currency contracts 38 38 Total assets 188 1,948 2,136 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 112 112 Cross currency swaps 189 189 Index-linked swaps 319 319 Forward foreign currency contracts 129 129 Future purchases of non-controlling interests 106 106 Total liabilities 749 106 855 Total 188 1,199 106 1,281 The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments: 2012 2011 m m At beginning of the year 106 146 Gains losses recognised in finance costs in the Group Income Statement 33 6 Losses gains recognised in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity 3 2 Purchase of non-controlling interests 73 44 At end of the year 3 106 During the financial year, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements and no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
A reasonably possible change in assumptions is unlikely to result in a significant change in the fair value of Level 3 instruments.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 125 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 22 Financial risk factors The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates, the risk of default by counterparties to financial transactions and the availability of funds to meet business needs.
The management of these risks is set out below.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
The Board provides written principles for risk management, as described in the Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 40 to 47.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
Debt issued at variable rates as well as cash deposits and short-term investments exposes the Groupto cash flow interest rate risk.
Debt issued at fixed rates exposes the Group to fair value risk.
Our interest rate management policy is explained onpage 47.
The Group has Retail Price Index RPI debt where the principal is indexed to increases in the RPI.
RPI debt is treated as floating rate debt.
The Group also has Limited Price lnflation LPI debt, where the principal is indexed to RPI, with an annual maximum increase of 5% and a minimum of0%.
LPI debt is treated as fixed rate debt.
For interest rate risk relating to Tesco Bank, refer to the separate section on Tesco Bank financial risk factors below.
During 2012 and 2011, net debt was managed using derivative instruments to hedge interest rate risk as follows: 2012 2011 Fixed Floating Total Fixed Floating Total m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 35 2,270 2,305 170 2,258 2,428 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank 1,956 2,447 4,403 2,161 2,480 4,641 Short-term investments 1,243 1,243 1,022 1,022 Other investments 1,335 191 1,526 755 183 938 Joint venture and associate, loan receivables Note 28 384 384 503 503 Other receivables 10 10 2525 Finance leases Note 34 111 55 166 92 106 198 Bank and other borrowings 10,729 854 11,583 9,697 1,180 10,877 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 1,470 3,917 5,387 398 4,676 5,074 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 78 78 36 36 Future purchases of non-controlling interests 3 3 106 106 Derivative effect: Interest rate swaps 1,402 1,402 1,218 1,218 Cross currency swaps 2,635 2,635 3,459 3,459 Index-linked swaps 522 522 498 498 Caps and collars 1 1 Total 8,355 1,009 7,346 5,500 1,234 6,734 Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions.
The Group policy on credit risk is described on page 47.
The counterparty exposure under derivative contracts is 1.8bn 2011: 1.3bn.
The Group considers its maximum credit risk to be 11.6bn 2011: 10.8bn, being the Groups total financial assets.
For credit risk relating to Tesco Bank, refer to the separate section on Tesco Bank financial risk factors below.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is managed by short-term and long-term cash flow forecasts.
In addition, the Group has committed facility agreements for 2.8bn 2011: 2.8bn, which mature between 2014 and 2015.
The Group has a European Medium Term Note programme of 15bn, of which 7.4bn was in issue at 25 February 2012 2011: 8.5bn, plus a Euro Commercial Paper programme of 2bn, none of which was in issue at 25 February 2012 2011: nil, and a US Commercial Paper programme of $4bn, none of which was in issue at 25 February 2012 2011: nil.
During 2012 the Group issued 1.4bn of long-term debt of which 0.6bn was issued as part of the European Medium Term Note Programme.
For liquidity risk relating to Tesco Bank, refer to the separate section on Tesco Bank financial risk factors below.
126 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 22 Financial risk factors continued The following is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual cash flows payable under financial liabilities and derivatives.
The potential cash outflow of 18.6bn is considered acceptable as it is offset by financial assets and trade receivables of 14.3bn 2011: 17.1bn offset by financial assets and trade receivables of 13.2bn.
The undiscounted cash flows will differ from both the carrying values and fair value.
Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing rate at the balance sheet date.
Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at the balance sheet date.
For index-linked liabilities, inflation is estimated at 3% for the life of the liability.
Due Due Due Due Due between between between between Due within 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 beyond 1 year years years years years 5 years At 25 February 2012 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank and other borrowings 1,734 867 1,005 5 1,524 6,124 Interest payments on borrowings 557 431 395 359 359 3,716 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 5,087 249 51 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 78 Finance leases 39 17 15 13 13 222 Trade and other payables 11,011 105 22 35 9 52 Derivative and other financial liabilities Net settled derivative contracts receipts 67 54 56 21 60 470 Net settled derivative contracts payments 122 80 69 61 43 342 Gross settled derivative contracts receipts 3,905 735 1,416 166 1,047 3,757 Gross settled derivative contracts payments 3,900 652 1,328 77 935 2,685 Future purchases of non-controlling interests 3 Total 18,559 1,612 1,413 363 1,776 8,914 Due Due Due Due Due between between between between Due within 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 beyond 1 year years years years years 5 years At 26 February 2011 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank and other borrowings 1,278 1,587 876 622 6,647 Interest payments on borrowings 518 495 395 355 326 3,828 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 4,898 173 3 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 36 Finance leases 56 36 15 15 16 205 Trade and other payables 10,303 84 14 7 3 73 Derivative and other financial liabilities Net settled derivative contracts receipts 74 68 68 37 14 31 Net settled derivative contracts payments 176 109 88 76 57 697 Gross settled derivative contracts receipts 1,619 641 468 672 132 3,368 Gross settled derivative contracts payments 1,404 652 341 610 60 2,631 Future purchases of non-controlling interests 85 24 Total 17,061 2,451 1,196 976 316 10,682 Foreign exchange risk The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk principally via: Transactional exposure arises from the cost of future purchases of goods for resale, where those purchases are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the purchasing company.
Transactional exposures that could significantly impact the Group Income Statement are hedged.
These exposures are hedged via forward foreign currency contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
The notional and fair value of these contracts is shown in Note 21.
Net investment exposure arises from changes in the value of net investments denominated in currencies other than Pounds Sterling.
The Group hedges a part of its investments in its international subsidiaries via foreign currency transactions and borrowings in matching currencies which are formally designated as net investment hedges.
Loans to non-UK subsidiaries are hedged via foreign currency transactions and borrowings in matching currencies.
These are not formally designated as hedges as gains and losses on hedges and hedged loans will naturally offset.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 127 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 22 Financial risk factors continued The impact on Group financial statements from foreign currency volatility is shown in the sensitivity analysis below: Sensitivity analysis The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying value of pension and other post-employment obligations and on the retranslation of overseas net assets as required by IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
However, it does include the foreign exchange sensitivity resulting from all local entity non-functional currency financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the debt and derivatives portfolio, and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the hedge designations in place at 25February 2012.
It should be noted that the sensitivity analysis reflects the impact on income and equity due to all financial instruments held at the balance sheet date.
It does not reflect any change in sales or costs that may result from changing interest or exchange rates.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: the sensitivity of interest payable to movements in interest rates is calculated on net floating rate debt, deposits and derivative instruments with no sensitivity assumed for RPI-linked debt which has all been swapped to fixed rates: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges from movements in interest rates or foreign exchange rates have an immaterial effect on the Group Income Statement and equity due to compensating adjustments in the carrying value of debt: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges from movements in foreign exchange rates are recorded directly in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedging instruments only affect the Group Income Statement: all other changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments are fully effective with no impact on the Group Income Statement: and the floating leg of any swap or any floating rate debt is treated as not having any interest rate already set, therefore a change in interest rates affects a full 12-month period for the interest payable portion of the sensitivity calculations.
Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the illustrative effect on the Group Income Statement and the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income that would result from changes in UK interest rates and in exchange rates: 2012 2011 Income Equity Income Equity gain loss gain loss gain loss gain loss m m m m 1% increase in GBP interest rates 2011: 1% 3 14 5% appreciation of the Euro 2011: 5% 1 40 2 46 5% appreciation of the South Korean Won 2011: 5% 59 1 1 5% appreciation of the US Dollar 2011: 5% 10 50 835 5% appreciation of the Czech Koruna 2011: 5% 117 6 A decrease in interest rates and a depreciation of foreign currencies would have the opposite effect to the impact in the table above.
The impact on the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income from changing exchange rates results principally from foreign currency deals used as net investment hedges.
The impact on the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income will largely be offset by the revaluation in equity of the hedged assets.
For changes in the USD GBP exchange rate, the impact on the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income results principally from forward purchases of US Dollars as cash flow hedges.
Capital risk The Groups objectives when managing capital defined as net debt plus equity are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, while maintaining a strong credit rating and headroom whilst optimising return to shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes to economic conditions and the strategic objectives of the Group.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, buy back shares and cancel them, or issue new shares.
During 2012, the Group purchased and cancelled 290m ordinary shares.
The policy for debt is to ensure a smooth debt maturity profile with the objective of ensuring continuity of funding.
This policy continued during the financial year with bonds redeemed of 521m 2011: 1,861m and new bonds issued primarily to finance maturing debt in 2012 13 totalling 1,358m 2011: 125m.
The Group borrows centrally and locally, using a variety of capital market instruments and borrowing facilities to meet the Groups business requirements of each local business.
128 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 22 Financial risk factors continued Tesco Bank Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises where assets and liabilities in Tesco Banks banking activities have different repricing dates.
Tesco Bank policy seeks to minimise the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in interest rates.
Potential exposures to interest rate movements in the medium to long term are measured and controlled through position and sensitivity limits.
Short-term exposures are measured and controlled in terms of net interest income sensitivity over 12months to a 1% parallel movement in interest rates.
Tesco Bank also use Economic Value Equity EVE for risk management purposes with focus on the value of Tesco Bank in todays interest rate environment and its sensitivity to changes in interest rates.
Interest rate risk is managed using interest rate swaps as the main hedging instrument.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Tesco Bank is unable to meet its payment obligations as they fall due.
Liquidity risk is managed within Tesco Banks banking activities and adheres to the liquidity requirements set by the FSA.
Tesco Banks Board has set a defined liquidity risk policy and contingency funding which is prudent and in excess of the minimum requirements as set out by the FSA and by Tesco Bank.
A diversified portfolio of high-quality liquid and marketable assets is maintained.
Cash flow commitments and marketable asset holdings are measured and managed on a daily basis.
Tesco Bank has sufficient liquidity to meet all foreseeable outflow requirements as they fall due and its liquidity risk is further mitigated by its well diversified retail deposit base and a pool of surplus cash resources that are invested in a range of marketable assets.
Credit risk Credit risk is the potential that a bank borrower or counterparty will fail to meet its obligations in accordance with agreed terms.
Credit risk principally arises from the Banks retail lending activities but also from the placement of surplus funds with other banks and money market funds, investments in transferable securities and interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives.
In addition, credit risk arises from contractual arrangements with third parties where payments and commissions are due to the Bank for short periods of time.
Retail credit policy is managed through the credit risk policy framework with standards and limits defined at all stages of the customer lifecycle, including new account sanctioning, customer management and collections and recovery activity.
Customer lending decisions are managed principally through the deployment of bespoke credit scorecard models and credit policy rules, which exclude specific areas of lending, and an affordability assessment which determines a customers ability to repay an outstanding credit amount.
Wholesale credit risk is managed using a limit-based framework, with limits determined by counterparty credit worthiness, instrument type and remaining tenor.
A limits framework is also in place for the management of third party credit exposures.
Expressed as an annual probability of default, the upper and lower boundaries and the midpoint for each of the asset quality grades are as follows: At 25 February 2012 and 26 February 2011 Annual probability of default Minimum Midpoint Maximum S&P Asset quality grade % % % equivalent AQ1 0.00 0.10 0.20 AAA to BBBAQ2 0.21 0.40 0.60 BB to BB AQ3 0.61 1.05 1.50 BBto B AQ4 1.51 3.25 5.00 B to B AQ5 5.01 52.50 100.00 B and below Accruing NonImpairment AQ1 AQ2 AQ3 AQ4 AQ5 past due accrual provision Total At 25 February 2012 m m m m m m m m m Assets: Other investments 1,526 1,526 Loans and advances to customers 630 977 866 690 1,158 73 194 185 4,403 Total assets 2,156 977 866 690 1,158 73 194 185 5,929 Commitments 4,471 1,716 662 426 147 7,422 Total off-balance sheet 4,471 1,716 662 426 147 7,422 During the financial year, there was a change in the methodology which Tesco Bank uses to measure the customer risk in relation to outstanding loan balances.
As a result this has revised the categorisation of some customer accounts since the prior year end in terms of asset quality grading.
Despite this change in methodology and the resulting impact on the data presented, there has not been any significant change in the underlying quality of the loans portfolio year on year.
Accruing NonImpairment AQ1 AQ2 AQ3 AQ4 AQ5 past due accrual provision Total At 26 February 2011 m m m m m m m m m Assets: Other investments 938 938 Loans and advances to customers 599 466 924 1,663 886 73 212 182 4,641 Total assets 1,537 466 924 1,663 886 73 212 182 5,579 Commitments 4,2541,601645444183 7,127 Total off-balance sheet 4,254 1,601 645 444 183 7,127 See Note 1 Accounting Policies for details of reclassifications.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 129 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 22 Financial risk factors continued Insurance risk Tesco Bank is exposed to insurance risks through its ownership of 49.9% of Tesco Underwriting Limited TU, an authorised insurance company, and through its historic distribution arrangement with RBS Insurance.
Since late 2010 the majority of new business policies for Home and Motor Insurance products sold by Tesco Bank have been underwritten by TU.
The key insurance risks within TU relate to Underwriting Risk and specifically the potential fora major weather event to generate significant claims on Home insurance or on Motor insurance the cost of settling bodily injury claims.
Exposure tothis risk is actively managed within TU with close monitoring of performance metrics and the use of reinsurance to limit TUs exposure above predetermined limits.
The primary risk that the Group remains exposed to through its previous relationship with RBS Insurance is Reserving Risk the risk that claims reserves are insufficient to cover the ultimate cost of those insurance claims that have not yet settled.
This is particularly relevant to Motor insurance claims where the ultimate cost of large bodily injury claims is uncertain and the time taken to settle such claims can vary significantly depending on the severity of the injury.
This risk is, in part, mitigated by the use of reinsurance to limit Tesco Banks exposure to the cost of individual claims above certain predetermined limits.
However, the nature of this exposure results in the process of estimating the ultimate cost of these claims carrying a degree of uncertainty.
Note 23 Customer deposits and deposits by banks 2012 2011 m m Customer deposits 5,387 5,074 Deposits by banks 78 36 5,465 5,110 Included within customer deposits is 300m 2011: 177m that is non-current.
Note 24 Provisions Property Other provisions provisions Total m m m At 27 February 2010 111 100 211 Foreign currency translation 3 3 Amount released in the year 18 50 68 Amount provided in the year 48 48 Amount utilised in the year 11 11 At 26 February 2011 138 39 177 Foreign currency translation 2 2 Amount released in the year 45 45 Amount provided in the year 28 61 89 Amount utilised in the year 4 22 26 Others 2 2 At 25 February 2012 121 78 199 The balances are analysed as follows: 2012 2011 m m Current 99 64 Non-current 100 113 199 177 Property provisions comprise obligation for future rents payable net of rents receivable on onerous and vacant property leases, terminal dilapidations and future rents above market value on unprofitable stores.
The majority of these provisions are expected to be utilised over the period to 2020.
The other provisions balance relates to a provision for Tesco Bank customer redress in respect of potential customer complaints arising from historic sales of PPI and a provision for customer insurance cancellations.
The PPI provision is likely to be utilised over several years, although the timing of utilisation is uncertain.
The balance is classified as current at the year end.
The British Bankers Association initiated a judicial review on 24 January 2011 in relation to the regulation of PPI sales practices.
The Group did not participate in this action and continued to deal with customer complaints in line with the FSA requirements throughout the duration of the legal proceedings undertaken by the other banks involved.
130 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 24 Provisions continued During the first half of the financial year, the Group undertook a review of historic sales practices in place over the period in which PPI was sold to customers.
During the financial year, the Group announced its intention to begin a programme of proactive customer contact, inviting customers who think they were mis-sold PPI during a specific time period to seek reimbursement from the Group.
This programme has entered an initial pilot phase.
The principal purpose of the pilot was to test operational processes in order to ensure that they were fit for purpose and could cope with the volume associated with a full programme of customer contact.
Following the decision to pro-actively contact customers, the provision was increased by 57m inthe first half of the financial year.
The Group will continue to handle claims and redress customers in accordance with PS10 12.
This will include ongoing analysis of historical claims experience in accordance with the guidance.
Note 25 Share-based payments For continuing operations, the Group Income Statement charge for the year recognised in respect of share-based payments is 153m 2011: 288m, which is made up of share option schemes and share bonus payments.
Of this amount, 125m 2011: 220m will be settled in equity and 28m 2011:68m in cash.
Share option schemes The Company had ten share option schemes in operation during the financial year, all of which are equity-settled schemes: i The Savings-related Share Option Scheme 1981 permits the grant to employees of options in respect of ordinary shares linked to a building society bank save-as-you-earn contract for a term of three or five years with contributions from employees of an amount between 5 and 250 per four-weekly period.
Options are capable of being exercised at the end of the threeor five-year period at a subscription price not less than 80% of the average of the middle-market quotations of an ordinary share over the three dealing days immediately preceding the offer date.
ii The Irish Savings-related Share Option Scheme 2000 permits the grant to Irish employees of options in respect of ordinary shares linked to a building society bank save-as-you-earn contract for a term of three or five years with contributions from employees of an amount between 12 and 320 per four-weekly period.
iii The Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 1994 was adopted on 17 October 1994.
The exercise of options granted under this scheme will normally be conditional upon the achievement of a specified performance target related to the growth in earnings per share over a three-year period.
Nofurther options will be granted under this scheme and it has been replaced by the Discretionary Share Option Plan 2004.
There were no discounted options granted under this scheme.
iv The Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 1996 was adopted on 7 June 1996.
v The International Executive Share Option Scheme 1994 was adopted on 20 May 1994.
This scheme permits the grant to selected non-UK executives of options to acquire ordinary shares on substantially the same basis as their UK counterparts.
vi The Executive Incentive Plan 2004 was adopted on 5 July 2004.
This scheme permits the grant of options in respect of ordinary shares to selected executives.
Options are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant for nil consideration.
vii The Performance Share Plan 2004 was adopted on 5 July 2004 and amended on 29 June 2007.
Options granted before 29 June 2007 are normally exercisable between four and ten years from the date of grant for nil consideration.
Options granted after 29 June 2007 are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant for nil consideration.
The exercise of options will normally be conditional upon the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed over a three-year period.
No further options will be granted under this scheme and it has been replaced by the Performance Share Plan 2011. viii The Performance Share Plan 2011 was adopted on 1 July 2011 and amended on 4 July 2011.
The exercise of options will normally be conditional upon the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed and earnings per share over a three-year period.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 131 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 25 Share-based payments continued ix The Discretionary Share Option Plan 2004 was adopted on 5 July 2004.
This scheme permits the grant of approved, unapproved and international options in respect of ordinary shares to selected executives.
Options are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant at a price not less than the middle-market quotation or average middle-market quotations of an ordinary share for the dealing day or three dealing days preceding the date of grant.
The exercise of options will normally be conditional upon the achievement of a specified performance target related to the annual percentage growth in earnings per share over a three-year period.
There will be no discounted options granted under this scheme.
x The Group New Business Incentive Plan 2007 was adopted on 29 June 2007.
Options will normally vest in four tranches: four, five, six and seven years after the date of grant and will be exercisable for up to two years from the vesting dates for nil consideration.
The exercise of options will normally be conditional upon the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed over the seven-year plan.
The average share price during the financial year ended 25 February 2012 was 385.43p 2011: 417.80p.
132 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 25 Share-based payments continued The fair value of share options is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The following table gives the assumptions applied to the options granted in the respective periods shown.
No assumption has been made to incorporate the effects of expected early exercise.
2012 2011 Savings-related Executive Nil cost Savings-related Executive Nil cost share option share option option share option share option share option schemes schemes schemes schemes schemes schemes Expected dividend yield % 4.1% 4.1% 0.0% 3.5% 3.5% 0.0% Expected volatility % 23 27% 26% 26% 26 30% 25% 25% Risk-free interest rate % 1.5 1.8% 2.0% 2.6% 1.6 2.2% 2.3 3.2% 2.7% Expected life of option years 3 or 5 6 6 3 or 5 6 6 Weighted average fair value of options granted pence 69.85 62.91 408.14 93.41 77.86 414.06 Probability of forfeiture % 14 16% 10% 0% 14 16% 10% 0% Share price pence 404.00 402.75 408.14 436.00 419.89 414.06 Weighted average exercise price pence 364.00 402.75 0.00 386.00 419.89 0.00 Volatility is a measure of the amount by which a price is expected to fluctuate during a period.
The measure of volatility used in the Groups option pricing models is the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the share over a period of time.
In estimating the future volatility of the Companys share price, the Board considers the historical volatility of the share price over the most recent period that is generally commensurate with the expected term of the option, taking into account the remaining contractual life of the option.
Share bonus schemes Eligible UK employees are able to participate in Shares in Success, an all-employee profit-sharing scheme.
Each year, shares are awarded as a percentage of earnings up to a maximum of 3,000.
Eligible Republic of Ireland employees are able to participate in a Share Bonus Scheme, an all-employee profitsharing scheme.
Each year, employees receive a percentage of their earnings as either cash or shares.
Senior management also participate in performance-related bonus schemes.
The amount paid to employees is based on a percentage of salary and is paid partly in cash and partly in shares.
Bonuses are awarded to eligible employees who have completed a required service period and depend on the achievement of corporate targets.
The accrued cash element of the bonus at the balance sheet date is 13m 2011: 38m.
Selected senior management participate in the selected senior management Performance Share Plan.
Awards made under this plan will normally vest three years after the date of the award for nil consideration.
Vesting will normally be conditional on the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed over a three-year performance period.
Senior management participate in the senior management Performance Share Plan 2011.
Vesting will normally be conditional on the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed and earnings per share over a three-year performance period.
Senior management in the US business also participate in the US Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 which was adopted on 29 June 2007.
The awards made under this plan will normally vest in four tranches: four, five, six and seven years after the date of award, for nil consideration.
Vesting will normally be conditional on the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed in the US business over the seven-year plan.
The Executive Directors participate in short-term and long-term bonus schemes designed to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Full details of these schemes can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The fair value of shares awarded under these schemes is their market value on the date of award.
Expected dividends are not incorporated into the fair value except for awards under the US Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The number and weighted average fair value WAFV of share bonuses awarded during the financial year were: 2012 2011 Number of WAFV Number of WAFV shares pence shares pence Shares in Success 26,597,598 416.26 25,360,677 416.23 Irish Share Bonus Scheme 156,313 419.50 141,970 397.70 Executive Incentive Scheme 9,482,746 415.89 12,765,004 398.68 Performance Share Plan 21,075,604 389.13 2,405,730 399.78 US Long-Term Incentive Plan 132,786 405.63 192,078 433.05 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 133 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 26 Post-employment benefits Pensions The Group operates a variety of post-employment benefit arrangements, covering both funded defined contribution and funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes.
The most significant of these are the funded defined benefit pension schemes for the Groups employees in the UK, the Republic of Ireland and South Korea.
Defined contribution plans The contributions payable for defined contribution schemes of 20m 2011: 14m have been recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Defined benefit plans UK The principal plan within the Group is the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme, which is a funded defined benefit pension scheme in the UK, the assets of which are held as a segregated fund and administered by trustees.
Towers Watson Limited, an independent actuary, carried out the latest triennial actuarial assessment of the scheme as at 31 March 2008, using the projected unit method.
At 31 March 2008, the actuarial deficit was 275m.
The market value of the schemes assets was 3,987m and these assets represented 94% of the benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected increases in earnings and pensions in payment.
The actuarial assessment as at 31March 2011 has started and the results will be finalised by June 2012.
The Group is currently in consultation with staff and trustees regarding proposed changes to the scheme.
Overseas The most significant overseas schemes are the funded defined benefit schemes which operate in the Republic of Ireland and South Korea.
An independent actuary, using the projected unit method, carried out the latest actuarial assessment of the Republic of Ireland scheme as at 1 April 2010 and South Korea as at 25 February 2012.
The valuations used for IAS 19 have been based on the most recent actuarial valuations and updated by Towers Watson Limited to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes as at 25 February 2012.
The schemes assets are stated at their market values as at 25 February 2012.
Towers Watson Limited have updated the most recent Republic of Ireland and South Korea valuations.
The liabilities relating to retirement healthcare benefits have also been determined in accordance with IAS 19 and are incorporated in the following tables.
Principal assumptions The major assumptions, on a weighted average basis, used by the actuaries were as detailed below: 2012 2011 % % Discount rate 5.2 5.9 Price inflation 3.1 3.5 Rate of increase in salaries 3.2 3.6 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.9 3.3 Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.1 2.8 Rate of increase in career average benefits 3.1 3.5 In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP element.
The main financial assumption is the real discount rate the excess of the discount rate over the rate of price inflation.
If this assumption increased decreased by 0.1%, the UK defined benefit obligation would decrease increase by approximately 170m and the annual UK current service cost would decrease increase by approximately 14m.
UK mortality assumptions The Company conducts analysis of mortality trends under the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme in the UK as part of the triennial actuarial valuation of the Scheme.
At the latest triennial actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2008 the following assumptions were adopted for funding purposes: Base tables: PMA92C00 for male members with cohort improvements to 2000 and members taken to be one year younger than actual age.
PFA92C00 for female members with cohort improvements to 2000 and members taken to be half a year older than actual age.
These assumptions were used for the calculation of the pension liability as at 25 February 2012 for the main UK scheme.
The mortality assumptions used are based on tables that have been updated in line with medium cohort projections with a minimum improvement of 1% per annum from 31 March 2008 to 25 February 2012.
In addition, the allowance for future mortality improvements incorporates medium cohort projections with a minimum improvement of 1% per annum.
The following table illustrates the expectation of life of an average member retiring at age 65 at the balance sheet date and a member reaching age 65 at the same date 25 years: 2012 2011 years years Retiring at reporting date at age 65: Male 21.8 21.7 Female 23.6 23.5 Retiring at reporting date 25 years at age 65: Male 24.2 24.1 Female 26.1 26.0 134 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 26 Post-employment benefits continued Rates of return on scheme assets The assets in the defined benefit pension schemes and the expected nominal rates of return are as follow: 2012 2011 Long-term Market Long-term Market rate of return value rate of return value % m % m Equities 8.1 3,377 8.5 3,032 Bonds 4.9 1,365 5.0 1,116 Property 6.5 577 6.8 511 Other alternative assets 8.1 741 8.5 564 Cash 3.6 109 4.0 385 Total market value of assets 6,169 5,608 The expected rate of return on assets is a weighted average based on the actual plan assets held and the respective returns expected on the separate asset classes.
The expected rates of return on equities and cash have both been set having regard to expected returns over the medium term, as calculated by the Companys independent actuary.
The expected rate of return on bonds was measured directly from actual yields for gilts and corporate bond stocks.
The rates take into account the actual mix of UK gilts, UK corporate bonds and overseas bonds held at the balance sheet date.
Movement in pension deficit during the financial year Changes in the fair value of defined benefit pension plan assets are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Opening fair value of plan assets 5,608 4,696 Expected return 422 363 Actuarial losses gains 168 278 Contributions by employer 457 433 Actual member contributions 11 10 Foreign currency translation 1 9 Benefits paid 160 163 Closing fair value of plan assets 6,169 5,608 Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Opening defined benefit obligation 6,964 6,536 Current service cost 495 499 Past service gain cost 3 29 Interest cost 404 381 Losses gains on change of assumptions 373 342 Experience gain loss 43 25 Foreign currency translation 11 Benefits paid 160 163 Actual member contributions 11 10 Closing defined benefit obligation 8,041 6,964 The amounts that have been charged to the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income are set out below: 2012 2011 m m Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit: Current service cost 495 499 Past service gain cost 3 29 Total charge to operating profit 492 528 Analysis of the amount charged credited to finance cost income: Expected return on pension schemes assets 422 363 Interest on pension schemes liabilities 404 381 Net pension finance income cost Note 5 18 18 Total charge to the Group Income Statement 474 546 Analysis of the amount recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: Actual return less expected return on pension schemes assets 168 278 Experience gains losses arising on the schemes liabilities 43 25 Foreign currency translation 2 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the schemes liabilities 373 342 Total loss gain recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 498 597 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 135 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 26 Post-employment benefits continued The cumulative losses recognised through the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income since the date of transition to IFRS are 1,037m 2011: 539m.
Summary of movements in deficit during the financial year 2012 2011 m m Deficit in schemes at beginning of the year 1,356 1,840 Current service cost 495 499 Past service gain cost 3 29 Other finance income cost 18 18 Contributions by employer 457 433 Foreign currency translation 1 2 Actuarial loss gain 498 595 Deficit in schemes at end of the year 1,872 1,356 History of movements The historical movement in defined benefit pension schemes assets and liabilities and history of experience gains and losses are as follows: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m Total market value of assets 6,169 5,608 4,696 3,420 4,089 Present value of liabilities relating to unfunded schemes 60 65 54 39 34 Present value of liabilities relating to partially funded schemes 7,981 6,899 6,482 4,875 4,893 Pension deficit 1,872 1,356 1,840 1,494 838 Experience losses gains on scheme assets 168 278 733 1,270 465 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities 43 25 1 117 20 Post-employment benefits other than pensions The Company operates a scheme offering post-employment healthcare benefits.
The cost of providing these benefits has been accounted for on a similar basis to that used for defined benefit pension schemes.
The liability as at 25 February 2012 of 11m 2011: 12m was determined in accordance with the advice of independent actuaries.
During the financial year, 1m 2011: 1m has been charged to the Group Income Statement and 1m 2011: 1m of benefits were paid.
A change of 1% in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effect: 2012 2011 m m Effect of a 1% increase in assumed healthcare cost trend rates on: Service and interest cost Defined benefit obligation 2 2 Effect of a 1% decrease in assumed healthcare cost trend rates on: Service and interest cost Defined benefit obligation 1 1 Expected contributions The Company expects to make normal cash contributions of approximately 486m to defined schemes in the financial year ending 23 February 2013.
Inaddition to this the Company paid a contribution of 180m on 30 March 2012, ahead of the completion of the triennial valuation.
Note 27 Called up share capital 2012 2011 Ordinary shares of 5p each Ordinary shares of 5p each Number m Number m Allotted, called up and fully paid: At beginning of the year 8,046,468,092 402 7,985,044,057 399 Share options exercises 23,490,825 1 36,535,102 2 Share bonus awards issues 32,656,313 2 24,888,933 1 Shares purchased for cancellation 70,802,785 3 At end of the year 8,031,812,445 402 8,046,468,092 402 During the financial year, 23 million 2011: 37 million ordinary shares of 5p each were issued in relation to share options for an aggregate consideration of 69m 2011: 97m.
During the financial year, 33 million 2011: 25 million shares of 5p each were issued in relation to share bonus awards for an aggregate consideration of 2m 2011: 1m.
136 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 27 Called up share capital continued During the financial year, the Group purchased and cancelled 70.8 million 2011: nil shares of 5p each representing 1% 2011: 0% of the called up capital as at 25 February 2012 at an average price of 4.07 2011: n a per share.
The total consideration including expenses was 290m 2011: nil.
The excess of the consideration over the aggregate nominal value of the shares purchased has been charged to retained earnings.
Between 26 February 2012 and 13 April 2012 options over 2,779,741 ordinary shares have been exercised under the terms of the Savings-related Share Option Scheme 1981 and the Irish Savings-related Share Option Scheme 2000.
Between 26 February 2012 and 13 April 2012, options over 937,548 ordinary shares have been exercised under the terms of the Executive Share Option Schemes 1994 and 1996 and the Discretionary Share Option Plan 2004.
As at 25 February 2012, the Directors were authorised to purchase up to a maximum in aggregate of 803.6 million 2011: 802.1 million ordinary shares.
The owners of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at general meetings of the Company.
Capital redemption reserve Upon cancellation of the shares purchased as part of the share buy-back, a capital redemption reserve is created representing the nominal value of the shares cancelled.
Note 28 Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are disclosed below: Trading transactions Sales to Purchases from Amounts owed Amounts owed related parties related parties by related parties to related parties 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m m m m m Joint ventures 263 281 480 449 5 18 36 4 Associates 2 3 1,691 1,104 6 368 264 Sales to related parties consists of services management fees and loan interest.
Purchases from related parties include 351m 2011: 306m of rentals payable to the Groups joint ventures including those joint ventures formed as part of the sale and leaseback programme and 1,691m 2011: 1,104m of fuel purchased from Greenergy International Limited.
In addition, duty on the fuel purchases paid by the Group to Greenergy International Limited was 1,950m 2011: 1,877m.
Non-trading transactions Sale and leaseback Loans to Loans from Injection of of assets related parties related parties equity funding 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m m m m m Joint ventures 450 1,652 380 502 16 26 49 94 Associates 4 1 69 Transactions between the Group and the Groups pension plans are disclosed in Note 26.
A number of the Groups subsidiaries are members of one or more partnerships to whom the provisions of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 Regulations apply.
The accounts for those partnerships have been consolidated into these accounts pursuant to Regulation 7 of the Regulations.
On 31 January 2012, the Group completed a new sale and leaseback transaction involving UK property assets, structured as a joint venture with a UK investor.
Ten trading stores and one store under development were sold for proceeds of 450m at an average net yield of 4.9%.
Transactions with key management personnel From 27 Feburary 2011, members of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee of Tesco PLC are deemed to be key management personnel.
Before that time only members of the Board of Directors were deemed to be key management personnel.
Key management personnel compensation and their transactions with Tesco Bank are disclosed below: 2012 2011 m m Salaries and short-term benefits 13 10 Pensions 4 3 Share-based payments 9 27 26 40 Of the total remuneration to key management personnel, 6m 2011: nil is due to Executive Committee members who are not on the PLC Board.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 137 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 28 Related party transactions continued Transactions of key management personnel with Tesco Bank during the financial year were as follows: Credit card and personal loan balances Saving deposit accounts Number of key Number of key management management personnel m personnel m At 25 February 2012 12 13 2 At 26 February 2011 7 10 1 Note 29 Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2012 2011 m m Profit before tax 3,835 3,641 Net finance costs Note 5 241 333 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates Note 13 91 57 Operating profit 3,985 3,917 Operating loss of discontinued operations 127 106 Depreciation and amortisation 1,498 1,420 Profits losses arising on property-related items from continuing operations 376 432 Profits losses arising on property-related items from discontinued operations 1 5 Loss arising on sale of non property-related items 4 3 Profit arising on sale of other investments 5 Impairment of goodwill Note 10 55 Net charge reversal of impairment of property, plant and equipment Note 11 and intangible assets Note 10 75 13 Adjustment for non-cash element of pensions charge 35 95 Share-based payments Note 25 125 220 Tesco Bank non-cash items included in profit before tax 166 83 Increase in inventories 461 467 Increase in trade and other receivables 139 152 Increase in trade and other payables and provisions 679 976 Tesco Bank decrease increase in loans and advances to customers Note 17 150 519 Tesco Bank increase in trade and other receivables 278 86 Tesco Bank increase in customer and bank deposits and trade and other payables 356 780 Decrease in working capital 307 532 Cash generated from operations 5,688 5,613 See Note 1 Accounting policies for details of reclassifications.
The increase in working capital includes the impact of translating foreign currency working capital movements at average exchange rates rather than year end exchange rates.
Note 30 Analysis of changes in net debt At Tesco Bank at Other At 26 February 26 February Business non-cash Net debt of Eliminat ion 25 February 2011 2011 Cash flow combinations movements disposal group of Tesco Bank 2012 m m m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,722 706 148 7 24 6 580 1,725 Short-term investments 1,022 221 1,243 Joint venture loan and other receivables 493 34 142 8 34 359 Bank and other borrowings 10,282 595 353 98 962 1 576 11,007 Finance lease payables 198 45 13 166 Net derivative financial instruments 453 21 94 613 52 1,003 Net debt of the disposal group 5 5 6,790 124235 91 330 14 6,838 See Note 1 Accounting policies for details of reclassifications.
These amounts relate to the net debt excluding Tesco Bank but including the disposal group.
138 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 31 Business combinations and other acquisitions Business combinations During the financial year, the Group completed five business combination transactions as follows: i 18 March 2011 Acquired 100% of the ordinary share capital relating to the 77 stores of Mills Group in the UK for a cash consideration of 10m: ii 1 April 2011 Acquired 100% of the ordinary share capital relating to the 87 franchised kiosks and 47 stores branded as Zabka and Koruna in the Czech Republic for a cash consideration of 36m: iii 18 April 2011 Acquired 80.25% of the ordinary share capital of Blinkbox Entertainment Limited in the UK for a cash consideration of 3m: iv 8 June 2011 Acquired 100% of the ordinary share capital of BzzAgent Inc and BzzAgent Limited for a cash consideration of 9m and deferred contingent consideration of 15m: and v 18 August 2011 Acquired the remaining 50% of the ordinary share capital of its joint venture Multi Veste Czech Republic 9, s. r. o not already owned by the Group for a total consideration of 24m, split equally between cash and equity.
The table below sets out the provisional fair values to the Group in respect of these acquisitions.
Provisional fair values on acquisition m Non-current assets 107 Current assets 25 Cash 5 Current liabilities 41 Non-current liabilities 98 Net liabilities acquired 2 Non-controlling interests 1 Goodwill arising on acquisition 100 97 Consideration: Cash 70 Non-cash 27 Total consideration 97 The goodwill represents synergies within the operating models and the economies of scale expected from incorporating the operations of acquired entities within the Group.
Purchase of non-controlling interest On 1 July 2011, the Group completed the acquisition of the remaining 6% of the ordinary share capital of Homeplus Co. Limited for a cash consideration of 73m.
Note 32 Commitments and contingencies Capital commitments At 25 February 2012, there were commitments for capital expenditure contracted for, but not provided for of 1,599m 2011: 1,719m, principally relating to the store development programme.
Contingent liabilities For details of assets held under finance leases, which are pledged as security for the finance lease liabilities, see Note 11.
There are a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business which if realised are not expected to result in a material liability to the Group.
The Group recognises provisions for liabilities when it is more likely than not that a settlement will be required and the value of such a payment can be reliably estimated.
Tesco Bank At 25 February 2012, Tesco Bank had commitments of formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend, totalling 7.4bn 2011: 7.1bn.
The amount is intended to provide an indication of the potential volume of business and not of the underlying credit or other risks.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS is the UK statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services institutions and pays compensation if an institution is unable to pay claims against it.
The FSCS has borrowed from HM Treasury to fund these compensation costs associated with institutions that failed in 2008 and will receive receipts from asset sales, surplus cash flow and other recoveries from these institutions in the future.
The initial borrowings from HM Treasury are on an interest-only basis and, from 1 April 2012, this has increased from 12month LIBOR 30 basis points to 12 month LIBOR 100 basis points.
The FSCS meets its obligations by raising management expense levies which will be kept based on limits advised by the FSA.
These include amounts to cover the interest on its borrowings and compensation levies on the industry.
Each deposit-taking institution contributes in proportion to its share of total protected deposits.
As at 25 February 2012, Tesco Bank accrued 5m 2011: 3m in respect of its current obligation to meet expenses levies, based on indicative costs published by the FSCS.
If the FSCS does not receive sufficient funds from the failed institutions to repay HM Treasury in full it will raise compensation levies.
At this time it is not possible to estimate the amount or timing of any shortfall resulting from the cash flows received from the failed institutions and, accordingly, no provision for compensation levies, which could be significant, has been made in these financial statements.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 139 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 33 Capital resources The following table shows the composition of regulatory capital resources of Tesco Personal Finance PLC TPF, being the regulated entity, at the balance sheet date: 2012 2011 m m Tier 1 capital: Shareholders funds and non-controlling interests 714 761 Tier 2 capital: Qualifying subordinated debt 375 235 Other interests 22 18 Supervisory deductions 365 365 Total regulatory capital 746 649 The movement of tier 1 capital during the financial year is analysed as follows: 2012 2011 m m At beginning of the year 761 576 Share capital and share premium 112 446 Profit attributable to shareholders 65 57 Other reserves 6 Ordinary dividends 108 162 Increase in intangible assets 122 156 At end of the year 714 761 It is TPFs policy to maintain a strong capital base, to expand it as appropriate and to utilise it efficiently throughout its activities to optimise the return to shareholders while maintaining a prudent relationship between the capital base and the underlying risks of the business.
In carrying out this policy, TPF has regard to the supervisory requirements of the FSA.
TPF has carried regulatory capital reserves in excess of its capital requirements throughout the financial year.
Note 34 Leasing commitments Finance lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has finance leases for various items of plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings.
There are also a small number of buildings which are held under finance leases.
The fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximate to their carrying value.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows: Present value of Minimum lease payments minimum lease payments 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Within one year 39 56 32 50 Greater than one year but less than five years 58 81 20 44 After five years 222 206 114 104 Total minimum lease payments 319 343 166 198 Less future finance charges 153 145 Present value of minimum lease payments 166 198 Analysed as: Current finance lease payables 32 50 Non-current finance lease payables 134 148 166 198 140 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 34 Leasing commitments continued Operating lease commitments Group as lessee Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Within one year 1,289 1,138 Greater than one year but less than five years 4,797 4,246 After five years 11,237 10,631 Total minimum lease payments 17,323 16,015 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases after five years are analysed further as follows: 2012 2011 m m Greater than five years but less than ten years 4,667 4,203 Greater than ten years but less than fifteen years 3,245 3,023 After fifteen years 3,325 3,405 Total minimum lease payments after five years 11,237 10,631 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases associated with the discontinued operations in Japan included in the above tables amount to nil 2011: 132m.
See Note 7 for further details on discontinued operations.
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its retail, distribution and office properties and other assets such as motor vehicles.
The leases have varying terms, purchase options, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group has lease break options on certain sale and leaseback transactions, which are exercisable if an existing option to buy back leased assets at market value at a specified date is also exercised, no commitment has been included in respect of the buy-back option as the option is at the Groups discretion.
The Group is not obliged to pay lease rentals after that date, therefore minimum lease payments exclude those falling after the buy-back date.
Operating lease commitments with joint ventures Since 1988 the Group has entered into several joint ventures and sold and leased back properties to and from these joint ventures.
The terms of these sale and leasebacks vary, however, common factors include: the sale of the properties to the joint venture at market value: options within the lease for the Group to repurchase the properties at market value: market rent reviews: and 20 to 30 full-year lease terms.
The Group reviews the substance as well as the form of the arrangements when determining the classification of leases as operating or finance.
All of the leases under these arrangements are operating leases.
Operating lease receivables Group as lessor The Group both rents out its properties and also sublets various leased buildings under operating leases.
At the balance sheet date, the following future minimum lease payments are contractually receivable from tenants: 2012 2011 m m Within one year 241 286 Greater than one year but less than five years 398 537 After five years 297 306 Total minimum lease receivables 936 1,129 Note 35 Events after the reporting period On 5 March 2012, Ek-Chai Distribution System Co. Ltd. Tesco Lotus, announced the final offering price of the Initial Public Offering of Tesco Lotus Retail Growth Freehold and Leasehold Property TLGF.
Tesco Lotus subscribed for 25% of the available units in TLGF.
The units commenced trading on the Stock Exchange of Thailand on 19 March 2012.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 141
