OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Tesco PLC Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 for the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2012 which comprise the Parent In our opinion: Company balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: Accepted Accounting Practice.
and the information given in the Directors Report for the 52 weeks Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors ended 25 February 2012 for which the Parent Company financial As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company out on page 88, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements.
Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an Matters on which we are required to report by exception opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for from branches not visited by us: or the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or with the accounting records and returns: or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not consent in writing.
made: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements we have not received all the information and explanations we require An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures for our audit.
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether Other matter caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys TescoPLC for the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2012. circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates Richard Winter Senior Statutory Auditor made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial for and on behalf of  LLP statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements to identify London material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
4 May 2012 If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 25February 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Accordingly, these operations have been treated as discontinued in 2012.
The 2011 statistics have been re-presented to be consistent with 2012.
Prior years have not been re-presented.
2 Operating profit includes integration costs and profit arising on sale of fixed assets.
Operating margin is based upon revenue excluding VAT.
3 The Group adopted IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes and the amendments to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment from 24 February 2008.
Periods before this date have not been restated.
5 Dividend per share relating to the interim and proposed final dividend.
6 Using a normalised tax rate before start-up costs in the US and Tesco Direct and excluding the impact of foreign exchange in equity and our acquisition of a majority share of Dobbies.
7 Excluding acquisition of Tesco Bank and Homever, India start-up costs, and after adjusting for assets held for sale.
Calculated on a 52-week basis, ROCE for 2009 is 12.8%.
9 Market capitalisation plus net debt.
10 Includes franchise stores but excludes Japan.
11 Store sizes exclude lobby and restaurant areas.
12 Restated to include Dobbies stores.
13 Restated to include Dobbies stores and account for a space restatement of 109,000 sq ft driven by a comprehensive remeasurement of One Stop stores.
152 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial calendar Financial year end 2011 12 25 February 2012 Final ex-dividend date 25 April 2012 Record date 27 April 2012 Q1 Interim Management Statement 11 June 2012 Annual General Meeting 29 June 2012 Final dividend payment date 6 July 2012 Half-year end 2012 13 25 August 2012 Interim Results October 2012 Q3 Interim Management Statement December 2012 Financial year ended 2012 13 23 February 2013 Please note that dates are provisional and subject to change.
Glossary Capital expenditure: the additions to property, plant and equipment, Return on capital employed: profit before interest and tax less tax at investment property and intangible assets excluding assets acquired the effective rate of tax divided by the calculated average of opening and under business combinations.
closing net assets plus net debt plus dividend creditor less net assets held for resale.
Capex % of sales: capital expenditure as defined above, divided by Group sales including VAT and excluding IFRIC 13.
Total shareholder return: the notional return from a share, measured as the percentage change in the share price, plus the dividends paid with Constant tax rate: using the prior years effective tax rate.
the gross dividends reinvested in Tesco shares.
This is measured over a five-year period.
EBITDAR: operating profit before depreciation, amortisation, rent and movements in impairments of property, plant and equipment, Underlying diluted earnings per share: underlying profit less tax at investment property and intangible assets.
the effective tax rate and minority interest divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Fixed charge cover: the ratio of EBITDAR excluding Tesco Bank EBITDAR divided by financing costs net interest excluding IAS 32 and Underlying profit before tax: underlying profit before tax excludes 39 impacts and pension finance costs plus operating lease expenses.
the impact of non-cash elements of IAS 17, 19, 32 and 39 principally the impact of annual uplifts in rents and rent-free periods, pension costs, and Gearing: net debt divided by total equity.
the marking to market of financial instruments : the amortisation charge on intangible assets arising on acquisition and acquisition costs, and the Net indebtedness: the ratio of adjusted net debt net debt plus non-cash impact of IFRIC 13.
It also excludes restructuring and other pension deficit and the present value of lease obligations divided one-off costs.
by EBITDAR excluding Tesco Bank EBITDAR.
Designed and produced by CONRAN DESIGN GROUP This Report is printed on Revive 100 Pure White Silk paper and has been independently certified on behalf of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
Printed at Pureprint Group Ltd, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral Tesco PLC Tesco House Delamare Road Cheshunt Hertfordshire EN8 9SL www.
com ar2012 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 Tesco at a glance 2011 12 We are one of the worlds largest retailers with operations in 14 countries emplo, ying almost 520,000 people and serving millions of customers every week.
72.0bn 7.4% 3.8bn 5.3% Group sales Group sales growth Group profit before tax Group profit before tax growth 1.6% 2.1% 14.76p Underlying profit before tax Underlying diluted Full year dividend per share earnings per share UK Asia Europe Revenue Trading profit Revenue Trading profit Revenue 42.8bn 2,480m 10.8bn 737m 9.9bn 66% of Group 66% of Group 17% of Group 20% of Group 15% of Group Revenue growth Trading profit growth Revenue growth Trading profit growth Revenue growth 5.0% 1.0 % 21.8% 7.3% 10.5% Employees Stores Employees Stores Employees 300,373 2,979 11 7,015 1, 719 94,409 Market position 1st Market position 1st or 2nd in all except China Market position 1st or Multiple formats Hypermarkets, superstores, Multiple formats Hypermarkets, supermarkets, Multiple formats Depar include supermarkets, convenience include convenience include superm hyperm Loyalty scheme Clubcard around 16 million active Loyalty scheme Clubcard in Malaysia and members Thailand, Family Card in South Loyalty scheme Clubca Korea, Legou Tesco Membercard 7 milli dotcom First grocery home shopping in China over 20 million active Europ service1997 members across Asia dotcom Repub dotcom South Korea 2002, planned 2011, launches in at least one major 2012 a city in each market in the next in each few years Fascia brands include: Fascia brands include: Fascia brands include: In India, we have an exclusive franchise agreement with Trent, the retail arm of the Tata Group.
We are supporting the development of their Star Bazaar format.
Continuing operations exclude Japan which has been treated as discontinued following our decision to sell the business.
US UK Europe Asia Tesco at a glance 2011 12 Republic of Ireland South Korea Poland Thailand Hungary China Czech Republic Malaysia We are one of the worlds largest retailers with operations Slovakia India in 14 countries e, mploying almost 520,000 people and Turkey serving millions of customers every week.
72.0bn 7.4% 3.8bn 5.3% Group sales Group sales growth Group profit before tax Group profit before tax growth 1.6% 2.1% 14.76p Underlying profit before tax Underlying diluted Full year dividend per share earnings per share UK Asia Europe US Tesco Bank Revenue Trading profit Revenue Trading profit Revenue Trading profit Revenue Trading loss Revenue Trading profit 42.8bn 2,480m 10.8bn 737m 9.9bn 529m 0.6bn 153 m 1.0bn 168m 66% of Group 66% of Group 17% of Group 20% of Group 15% of Group 14% of Group 1% of Group 4 % of Group 2% of Group 4% of Group Revenue growth Trading profit growth Revenue growth Trading profit growth Revenue growth Trading profit growth Revenue growth Improvement in trading loss Revenue growth Trading profit growth 5.0% 1.0 % 21.8% 7.3% 0.4% 27.3% 17.7% 13.6% 36.4 % 10.5% Employees Stores Employees Stores Employees Stores Employees Stores Employees Baseline profit growth 300,373 2,979 1 17,015 1, 719 94,409 1, 351 5,056 18 5 2,818 29.3% Market position 1st Market position 1st or 2nd in all except China Market position 1st or 2nd in all except Turkey Market position A West Coast start-up business Insurance Car, home, pet, travel, life, over 50s, health, dental, breakdown Multiple formats Hypermarkets, superstores, Multiple formats Hypermarkets, supermarkets, Multiple formats Department stores, hypermarkets, Loyalty scheme Friends of Fresh & Easy include supermarkets, convenience include convenience include supermarkets, compact two-thirds of a million active Savings Fixed rate, internet, instant hypermarkets, convenience members access, retail bonds Loyalty scheme Clubcard around 16 million active Loyalty scheme Clubcard in Malaysia and members Thailand, Family Card in South Loyalty scheme Clubcard in all markets over Cash Loans, credit cards, ATMs, Korea, Legou Tesco Membercard 7 million active members across travel money dotcom First grocery home shopping in China over 20 million active Europe service1997 Future launches Mortgages, current accounts members across Asia dotcom Republic of Ireland 2000, Prague Loyalty scheme Clubcard dotcom South Korea 2002, planned 2011, planned launches in Warsaw launches in at least one major 2012 and in at least one major city city in each market in the next in each market in the next few years few years Fascia brands include: Fascia brands include: Fascia brands include: Fascia brand: Designed and produced by CONRAN DESIGN GROUP This Report is printed on Revive 100 Pure White Silk paper and has been independently certified on behalf of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
Printed at Pureprint Group Ltd, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral In India, we have an exclusive franchise agreement with Trent, the retail arm of the Tata Group.
We are supporting the development of their See glossary for full accounting definitions.
Revenue excludes the accounting impact of IFRIC 13.
Calculated on a constant tax rate basis.
OVERVIEW 1 Chairmans statement STRATEGIC REVIEW 3 Chief Executives review 9 Strategy in action 24 Business model PERFORMANCE REVIEW 29 Key performance indicators 33 Financial review SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 38 Board of Directors 40 Summary report of the Directors 44 Independent auditors statement to the members of Tesco PLC 45 Group financials 47 Financial calendar 48 Glossary www.
com ar2012 The easy way to get online This year online, you can hear from our leadership team, explore our business through our interactive map and download our financial statements in Excel.
com ar2012 or use your smartphone to scan the QR codes in the Report to go straight to the relevant information online.
Scan here to visit the 2011 12 Annual Report online homepage OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Chairmans statement Chairmans statement Nearly six months after taking over from Sir David Reid, it is good to have this opportunity to share my perspective on recent developments which I will do under three headings: context: transition: and governance.
Context There are many things that strike a newcomer to Tesco.
This is a business with an unusual range and depth of core competencies: it has outstanding operational effectiveness: it understands deeply what it means to orientate a business around the customer: it is passionate, and successful, about developing talent from within: and it manages a complex operating environment with great team work.
It is also a business that is not afraid to learn and change, capacities perhaps more than any others which are essential to long-term growth.
In this respect there are three areas in particular worth identifying.
Sir Richard Broadbent First, Tesco is a business with significant strategic optionality.
It has Chairman expertise and capital, human and financial, that can be leveraged in different geographies, in different sectors of retailing and through new and different channels, notably of course the internet.
The development of these opportunities can make Tesco a stronger company and benefit the UK as a whole.
And with such opportunity also comes responsibility to ensure that the tradeThere are many things that strike a newcomer offs between different investments are reached in a disciplined to Tesco.
This is a business with an unusual way: and that the optimum balance is struck overall between range and depth of core competencies: it has current returns and future growth.
outstanding operational effectiveness: it Second, as the business grows internationally, it is important not understands deeply what it means to orientate only that we explain ourselves to the world but also that we listen and see ourselves as others do.
Since arriving at Tesco last year a business around the customer: it is passionate, I have visited many different parts of the business around the and successful, about developing talent from world, met many of our staff, talked to shareholders, suppliers, commentators, community leaders and to customers.
This is the within: and it manages a complex operating broader context of our business to which we need continuously environment with great team work.
to relate, openly, honestly and constructively for the long-term benefit of our business.
Third, I have been impressed by the skills, commitment and values held by the people who work at Tesco and all of whom not only contribute to its success but make the company what it is.
They are a great team and all those with a stake in Tesco have reason to admire and be grateful for their efforts.
I would like to thank them, on behalf of the whole Board, for all that they do.
Scan here to hear more from Sir Richard Broadbent, or visit www.
com ar2012 chairman Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 1 Chairmans statement There have been a number of changes to the Board.
In addition to Transition Sir David Reid, David Potts retired during the year, Richard Brasher This has been a year of transition.
stepped down from the Board in March, and Andrew Higginson will retire in September.
We thank them all for their contribution to the Philip Clarke took over as Chief Executive at the beginning of business over the years.
We are also pleased to welcome Deanna the year and he has been shaping both the organisation of the Oppenheimer to the Board as a Non-executive Director.
Deanna business and the management team which inevitably, after a brings valuable international, retail, banking and digital experience long period of stability, are entering a period of change and to our Board.
This work takes time but is essential to our future as a strong and profitable company.
Financial results All successful companies go through periods of transition.
Indeed, In the year, we delivered sales growth of 7.4%.
Profit growth was the capacity to change and develop over time is fundamental to modest, with a strong international performance largely offset by a truly world-class companies.
The critical issue for those responsible reduction in UK profits.
Trading profit grew by 1.3%, and profit is to fully acknowledge the need for and to manage change in a before tax grew by 5.3%.
Return on capital employed improved measured and timely fashion when it is called for.
from 12.9% last year to 13.3%, and we continued our long record We have moved to address performance issues in the UK.
of dividend growth for shareholders, with the full year dividend up The challenge of refocusing the UK business to ensure it sustains 2.1% to 14.76p.
healthy market leadership is important enough to make it worth The fact that in a year when economic headwinds have been giving up some profit in the short term to safeguard the business evident in practically every part of the globe our business increased in the long term.
We laid out in April how we intend to do this.
sales, profits, return on capital and dividends speaks for its overall Elsewhere, we have continued the substantial re-orientation of resilience.
the US business to give it the best possible opportunity to secure Looking ahead its future with all the potential for longer-term growth that would bring.
We have announced our intention to exit from Japan.
Last year was a challenging one for the business and we are We are willing to invest for the long term but where we cannot acutely aware that this was reflected for our shareholders in the see a profitable, scalable business earning good returns within share price.
We will continue in 2012 13 to address long-standing an acceptable timescale, we prefer to pursue better opportunities.
business issues in the UK and elsewhere in order to secure future And we have slowed down the development of Tesco Bank to prosperity as well as ensuring that our financial and human increase its focus on quality, service and risk management.
resources are developed and deployed where they are able most effectively to generate future growth and returns.
These are substantial changes, in management, organisation and business and they need to be seen as part of a continuing process If I have one overriding impression of Tesco after six months, it is of moving the company forward, making changes where necessary that here is a truly international business, deploying its expertise to ensure long-term stability and sustainable profitability.
across the world to drive opportunity, growth and returns, all of which ultimately benefit the UK.
I look forward to being part of it.
Governance Governance is the framework that articulates a companys values and supports its behaviours.
During the year, we updated our governance framework and processes.
An important aspect of these changes was the creation of the Board Corporate Responsibility Committee to ensure that the Board maintains a strategic focus on corporate responsibility in its widest sense, Sir Richard Broadbent reflecting the importance to the Group of how it engages Chairman externally.
When a company has significant economic and social scale it is essential that it reflects on the full nature of its accountability for its activities, and how it should discharge that responsibility to the communities in which it operates.
This will be an important focus for the new Committee.
2 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Chief Executives review Building for the future Philip in conversation with Ellen and Jobe at the Tesco Extra store in Baldock It has been a year of significant change and one in which we My first year as Chief Executive has took decisive action on some very important issues for Tesco: been a year where we have implemented our reset of expectations for the UK for the forthcoming year, the important changes at Tesco, a year when announcement of our intention to dispose of our business in Japan, the focus on moving Fresh & Easy closer to profitability and the we have built strength for the future.
renewed focus on delivering a reliable Tesco Bank.
As a part of this we made several key management changes during the year which have allowed some significant new appointments as we renew and reinvigorate the Tesco team.
This has very much laid the ground for the future: a future where we will make sure that our capital and our talent are put to work where it benefits most our customers and hence our shareholders.
The future Tesco will demonstrate greater innovation and creativity as we address the needs of consumers around our world both in store and online.
We regularly deliver over 75 million shopping trips a week and as a retailer are only as good as the last trips.
Ensuring that Tesco is highly valued by customers on each and every one of those shopping trips will be what makes Tesco achieve sustainable success.
That is what we set out to do every day.
I believe that we have faced into challenges with real determination and taken decisions for the future.
I know that it has been a tough year to be a Tesco shareholder.
I know too that my whole team and I are confident that the changes we are making are the right things to do for customers, staff, the business and its shareholders and that the long-term opportunities for Tesco remain undiminished.
Scan here to hear more from Philip Clarke, or visit www.
com ar2012 ceoreview Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 3 Chief Executives review retailer wherever we trade: delivering on the potential of retail Performance in 2011 12 services: applying Group skill and scale: and delivering higher We delivered modest profit growth in a challenging economic returns.
You will see how these priorities have shaped our actions environment, with a strong international performance largely through the year.
offset by a reduction in UK profits.
Whilst the year gave us many things to be proud of, overall it was not the most pleasing To grow the UK Core performance.
My team and I are resolved to get Tesco back to winning, particularly at home.
Group sales increased by 7.4% to 72 billion, while Group trading profit was up 1.3% on last year and underlying profit before tax rose to 3.9 billion, an increase of 1.6%.
Group capital expenditure in the year was 3.8 billion.
Group return on capital employed ROCE increased to 13.3% last year 12.9%.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 10.13p per share, taking the full year dividend to 14.76p, which is an increase of 2.1% on last year.
The decisions we have taken during the year have had an impact on our financial performance.
We decided to forego some shortterm profit to re-invest in the long-term health of the business, The deli counter in our Hertford Superstore has a flat glass front, bright with a clear focus on improving the shopping trip for customers.
lighting and warmer, more engaging signage The UK business clearly did not meet our own expectations in the year and, partly as a result of this, we decided to accelerate our In the UK, high petrol prices and falling real incomes affected plan to make improvements which has meant a necessary reset customers discretionary spending in the year.
The combination to expectations for our growth in 2012 13 as well.
This acceleration of disappointing sales in the second half of the year and our and reset were announced with our Christmas trading update decision to increase investment into the shopping trip meant that in January.
our UK performance was weaker than planned.
Sales grew by 6.2%, supported by excellent new store performance, but trading Despite this significant re-investment programme, we remain profit declined by 1.0 %.
committed to driving higher returns for shareholders.
Although our investment plans in the UK make achieving our ROCE target The issue we are addressing is that the shopping trip just hasnt more challenging in the short term, we still expect to deliver a been improving fast enough and our standards havent been as ROCE of 14.6% by 2014 15, with broadly based growth from consistent as our customers have come to expect.
As a result, we around the Group.
are taking action to improve each aspect of the customer offer.
This will involve significant revenue and capital investment in a Strategic update comprehensive plan encompassing six key areas.
In last years Annual Report, I set out an evolution of our strategy into seven parts: The UK Plan Building a Better Tesco Our Plan for the UK business has six elements: To grow the UK core: Service & Staff: helping our people deliver great service by To be an outstanding international retailer in stores investment in recruitment, training and equipment, dedicated and online: to particular departments such as produce so that our customers To be as strong in everything we sell as we are in food: notice the change.
To grow retail services in all our markets: Stores & Formats: making our stores better places in which to shop and work, with the pace of new store development moderating, To put our responsibilities to the communities we serve and the pace of refreshing our existing stores stepping up.
at the heart of what we do: Price & Value: delivering great value for money through the right To be a creator of highly valued brands: and blend of price, promotions, couponing and loyalty.
To build our team so that we create more value.
Range & Quality: building the right ranges of quality products, This strategy remains as relevant now as it did a year ago and reviewing and refreshing our entire range of Tesco brand products, Im pleased to be able to update you on the progress we have making our ranging more store and format-specific, and bringing made on each of these strategic objectives.
I also set out dunnhumby, our marketing insight business, back into the heart immediate management priorities for the business last year of Tesco.
keeping the UK strong and growing: becoming outstanding internationally, not just successful: becoming a multi-channel 4 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model We took an important step this year in deciding to exit Japan.
It is Brand & Marketing: making sure that we get back to having right to focus on our larger, profitable and growing businesses in the right conversation with our customers about Tesco.
It is never easy to make decisions of this kind and Clicks & Bricks: making this a potent combination for our I would like to thank our staff in Japan for their continued hard customers, with the roll-out of Click & Collect and the work and professionalism through this time.
transformation of our range and online presence.
Europe: growth in a difficult environment We are clear on what we need to do, we have trialled substantial Following a strong performance in Europe in the first half of elements of the changes and we know they work.
Our investment the year, the performance in the second half was weaker than programme has already started and we expect this to deliver expected.
Sales for the year grew by 8% and trading profit stronger results.
The Big Price Drop in September 2011 was increased marginally, by 0.4%.
Trading profit growth would have the first step, but the changes we are making are about much been in line with sales had it not been for the impact of the crisis more than price.
They are a combination of price, quality, range tax imposed in Hungary, which cost 38 million in the year.
and service, including a significant investment to create an additional 20,000 jobs over the next two years.
These changes The economic background was particularly difficult in Hungary will reinvigorate the shopping trip for customers, and consequently and in the Republic of Ireland this year.
Given the current conditions, deliver improved performance for shareholders.
we are focusing on growth primarily through our existing stores in these markets, rather than investing substantial new capital.
In To be an outstanding international retailer addition to these headwinds in two of our largest markets, profits were held back by disruption connected to the opening of our new in stores and online distribution centre in Poland, but this is behind us now.
Our international businesses performed strongly, with trading We have made good progress with the closer integration of our profits up 18%, or by 22% before the impact of a crisis tax levied European businesses this year, from sharing infrastructure to in Hungary.
We have seen progress in our established businesses, buying as a single region.
This means that we can leverage the such as in Central Europe, South Korea and Thailand, and from skill and scale of the Tesco Group to deliver a better shopping trip our newer, rapidly growing businesses, such as Fresh & Easy in the for customers and higher returns for shareholders.
One example United States and Tesco Malaysia.
It is encouraging that we are of this is our recent launch of grocery dotcom in Prague, with initial winning market share in almost all of our markets and, in some sales well ahead of plan, and our dotcom business in Warsaw will countries, at a faster rate than for many years.
Asia: another strong performance I am pleased with the performance of our businesses in Asia.
Sales and profit grew well sales by over 10%, and trading profit by over 20%.
We delivered solid like-for-like sales growth and an excellent contribution from new stores.
Our business in Thailand had an extraordinary year.
The worst flooding for 70 years caused us to close over 150 stores temporarily and all four of our distribution depots.
The superb dedication of our team enabled us to keep supply lines open for customers and to support staff affected by the flooding, and we have come out of the crisis stronger.
We grew like-for-like sales and profits in the year.
South Korea had another good year, although I anticipate a modest reduction in like-for-like sales next year as restrictions on trading hours for large retailers are implemented across the country.
Our Extra format stores delivered an encouraging performance In China, we have continued to focus on building scale in three through the year regions of the country.
With the economic environment currently proving challenging for mainstream retailers, we have decided to take a more cautious stance on the market, at least for now.
We have decided not to commit substantial new capital to freehold shopping centres, and we have also elected to hold back on the pace of new hypermarket development this year.
We will only open 16 stores, instead of stepping up as we had planned.
We still believe that China can be an engine of growth and we can speed up again when the outlook improves.
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 5 Chief Executives review United States: on the path to profitability Europe and Asia delivered stronger performances in general It has been a year of encouraging progress in Fresh & Easy.
merchandise, clothing and electricals, despite subdued consumer Sales grew by 27%, with almost 12 percentage points coming from confidence even in the better performing economies.
We have also delivered reduced trading losses with the performance of clothing in Central Europe, with sales for the first time, with an 18% improvement on last year.
After four growing by 12% at constant exchange rates.
This is testament to years of rising losses, this is a decisive change of trend, driven by the strength of the F&F brand and also to the performance of our further improvements to our customer offer.
Features such as new Extra format stores.
We ended the year with 44 of the new in-store bakeries, more loose produce, additional ranges and new Extras in Europe and three in Asia.
These stores are introducing Fresh & Easy products have been very popular with customers our customers to a different way of shopping, with stronger ranging and new services, with extremely encouraging results.
and we have seen an acceleration in our already strong growth Different categories of food and general merchandise have their in customer numbers.
own distinctive look and feel within the Extra store, known as The progress we have made gives us more confidence that Worlds, such as Baby World and Sports World.
We are making we will deliver a further significant reduction in losses in the similar changes to the look and feel within our large UK stores, coming year.
The timing of break-even will be later than we had partly as a result of the encouraging performances in Europe.
previously expected, as we will focus on getting more of our existing stores to reach profitability before we step up the rate To grow retail services in all our markets of new store openings.
We can then reach sufficient scale to cover our substantial central overhead costs and we anticipate that we will reach the break-even point during 2013 14.
To be as strong in everything we sell as we are in food It has been tough to achieve growth in sales of discretionary items not least in the UK, where we have seen a number of specialist general merchandise retailers go into administration and our UK like-for-like growth in general merchandise, clothing and electricals has remained negative.
To adjust to this, we have been allocating more space to the most popular products and improving merchandising.
We are committing less capital to new space for non-food and instead focusing more resource on continuing to Customers can purchase insurance and other Tesco Bank products develop our online capability.
in store, alongside their weekly shop Tesco Bank is a key part of the potential we see in retail services.
Since we took full control of the Bank in 2008, our focus has been on developing our own systems and infrastructure and recruiting and developing a new team to run the operation.
Im delighted to say that this period of migration from The Royal Bank of Scotland RBS to our own platforms is now nearing an end.
Building a bank is a complex task and I took the decision during the year to slow down the migration, so as to minimise the customer impact.
This final stage of migration will be completed imminently, at which point the business can put more emphasis on growth and on developing the potential we see in financial services.
We have delivered good business growth in the year with revenue Baldock Extra Electricals department.
We are seeing the early benefits up 14%, driven by a good performance in the insurance business.
of our changes, but much remains to be done The Banks profit figure includes several accounting adjustments, so we measure business performance using baseline profitability, which increased by a very encouraging 29%.
The Banks capital position has also remained strong through the year, supported by a 7% growth in savings balances.
With the migration almost completed, the Bank is well positioned for future growth.
We are also on track to launch new products, starting with mortgages, to broaden into a full-service retail bank.
6 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model To put our responsibilities to the communities To be a creator of highly valued brands we serve at the heart of what we do We have reinforced our commitment to be a good corporate citizen this year: as a retailer, an employer and a neighbour.
We employ over half a million people worldwide, which allows us to make a real difference in the communities where we operate.
Our core business involves two vital roles in the heart of the community: providing customers with safe, good quality, affordable, nutritious food and creating good jobs and careers.
Beyond this, we have demonstrated that we put our responsibilities to communities at the heart of what we do in a huge variety of ways: I want to pay tribute to just some of the great achievements of the last year.
Even when their own homes were in danger or flooded, our people in Thailand went to extraordinary lengths for customers.
Some Finest sold well over 1 billion in the UK alone this year.
In April 2012 we even gave up their days off and travelled for hours by boat to relaunched Tesco Value as Everyday Value, with quality improvements continue to get essential supplies to our customers.
There is no to hundreds of products better example of our colleagues living true to the Tesco Values: No one tries harder for customers and Treat people how we like Across our markets our own-label programme encompasses a to be treated.
broad spectrum of ranges to appeal to diverse customer needs, giving customers the quality products they are looking for at Our responsibility to our people is to provide them with good jobs competitive prices.
In the last year, we have created thousands of jobs across our businesses, invested in a state-of-the-art, zero-carbon In the last year we have expanded our offering, launching new training academy in South Korea and have continued our work in ranges such as Venture Brands in the UK and Europe including the employment of young people, university graduates and the Chokablok chocolate and ice cream and Carousel childrens toys long-term unemployed.
which offer customers premium quality at great prices.
Our customer offering is based on strong relationships with our We have started to differentiate our ranges more clearly, such suppliers.
For example, we now have supplier academies in all as our sub-brands Gourmet and Eat Well in Fresh & Easy and of our Central European markets for suppliers to present their Goodness, which is a range of healthy and nutritious childrens products to our buyers.
This enables us to support the growth of products now also available in the UK.
our suppliers whilst sourcing the best local and regional products We recently relaunched our UK Tesco Value range as Everyday for our customers.
Value, with quality improvements to hundreds of products and Any business on the scale of Tesco has the opportunity to make new, brighter packaging.
This is the first stage in a refresh of our a significant difference in tackling climate change.
We were proud entire range of over 8,000 Tesco brand products in the UK in the to be recognised by the Carbon Disclosure Project again this year, next two years, including a comprehensive update to our Tesco with Tesco named the top retailer in the world.
We will continue Standard range.
our work as we progress towards our ambitious target of being This is an area of substantial and growing strategic importance a zero-carbon business by 2050. for us, as we recognise the role that our brands play in attracting customers and as we start to leverage our expertise in brand management across our markets.
Our state-of-the-art, zero-carbon training academy in South Korea, to train staff from across the Tesco Group Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 7 Chief Executives review To build our team so that we create Delivering higher returns more value In April last year we set out a target to increase our already good level of ROCE to 14.6% by 2014 15.
We improved ROCE from Strengthening our management 12.9% to 13.3% in 2011 12.
Although it is likely that we will see This time last year we were in the early days of some of our a small reduction in 2012 13 as a result of our UK investment plans, new management structures.
I had just introduced a matrix we continue to see a number of opportunities to drive returns and structure throughout Tesco with CEOs for each of our key we still expect to deliver our targeted increase to 14.6% by 2014 15. business areas the UK, Asia, Europe, and the US supported by integrating functions, such as Property, Human Resources Doing the right thing and Marketing.
I am very pleased with how this structure has I am confident that we are ready to tackle whatever challenges lie bedded in and expect to see even greater value creation ahead.
The decisive action that we have taken in the past year and as a result.
the management changes which have reinvigorated the Tesco The introduction of a dedicated UK Operating Board has team have laid the ground for the future: a future where we will enabled greater focus at home and given the importance make sure that our capital and our talent are put to work where it of the changes we are currently making for customers, benefits most our customers and hence our shareholders.
We have I have recently decided to assume direct responsibility for and will continue to focus on doing the right thing for customers, the UK business during the process of its renewal.
for communities, for staff, for the business and for our shareholders.
I have continued to strengthen both the Executive Committee and our senior management teams through the last year, drawing on our deep pool of internal talent.
We have also been fortunate to welcome our new Chairman, Sir Richard Broadbent, following Sir David Reids decision to retire.
I want to thank David for his lasting contribution to Tesco over 26 years on our Board and, on a personal level, for all the Philip Clarke help he has given me in settling into my role as CEO.
Chief Executive Building the Tesco team We will create 20,000 more jobs in the UK over the next two years and many more around the world Tescos most important asset will always be its people, who live by our Values to do their very best for customers.
Many of our plans for the coming year are built on investment in our people.
We employ more than half a million people across the globe and this will continue to increase, with plans to create an additional 20,000 jobs in the UK alone in the coming two years and to continue to grow our teams around the world.
It is the quality, commitment and dedication of our people that gives me so much confidence that we can and will achieve our plans for the years ahead.
8 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Strategy in action IN THIS SECTION Having given you an overview of 10 UK: Giving our customers the implementation of our strategy the best shopping trip 12 UK: Refreshing our stores over the past year, this section for customers and staff 14 Online: Making Clicks & sets out some detailed case studies Bricks a reality for customers showing our strategy in action.
16 International: Moving into the next phase of growth 18 International: Footholds in newer markets In the next few pages, youll read about the 1 billion 20 Retail services: A Tesco Bank for Tesco customers commitment were making to improve the shopping 22 Our dedication to the trip in the UK, our exciting innovations online, what we community: Thailand mean by Group skill and scale, our businesses in newer markets, the progress of Tesco Bank over the last three years and our teams extraordinary response to the flooding in Thailand.
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 9 UK: Giving our customers the best shopping trip We always want to provide our customers with the best shopping experience and set the standard in the UK.
Focusing on food first, we are making a 1 billion commitment this year to improve the shopping trip, driving a strong pace of improvement in the things that matter for customers service, range, quality, price, availability and the store environment.
More staff, better service One of the largest elements of our investment is in increased staffing levels, training and equipment for key departments in existing stores such as produce and meat.
We saw marked We are improving the look and feel of many of our improvements in customers perceptions and sales performance fresh departments using more engaging signage, of 200 pilot stores.
This success has given us the confidence to stronger graphics, warmer colours and better lighting move quickly to apply these changes to all of our large stores an investment of over 200 million.
Creating more good jobs and careers The Fruit and Veg team Over the next two years, we will create 20,000 new jobs to deliver Fresh food is an area where customers really appreciate having new levels of excellence in customer service.
Customers will benefit dedicated, specially trained and knowledgeable staff.
With the from more staff on the shop floor at busy times, greater staff additional investment in staffing, training and equipment, the expertise and enhanced service across the store.
Fruit and Veg team can focus on fresh produce, improving product availability and presentation for customers.
The investment goes to the heart of our promise to create good jobs and careers, with opportunities focused on young people who We are also increasing the number of staff across the whole of are currently unemployed.
British Prime Minister David Cameron fresh food meat, produce and chilled convenience foods.
described the investment as a massive confidence boost for the UK economy.
10 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Quality and innovation We are reviewing and refreshing our entire range of over 8,000 Tesco brand products starting with the relaunch of Tesco Value as Everyday Value, with quality improvements to hundreds of products.
Helping customers manage on tight budgets, Value was already growing at twice the rate of the market as a whole: these changes will further strengthen its position.
We will also be comprehensively updating our other Tesco ranges this year.
We have already stepped up the pace of innovation with our new Venture Brand exclusive products such as Chokablok ice cream, Parioli authentic Italian ranges and the Lathams range of premium pet food.
With such a strong variety of ranges to appeal to the needs of different customers, we will also be applying more personalisation and localisation in stores to help them tailor their ranges much more for their local area.
The Big Price Drop In September 2011, we launched The Big Price Drop, investing more than 500 million to reduce the prices of over 3,000 everyday products.
Big Price Drops target the products that customers buy week in, week out.
The progress is encouraging and were now more competitive.
Its an important step in the journey but theres more to do to get the blend right on price, promotions, couponing and loyalty.
Over the page Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 11 11 UK: Refreshing our stores for customers and staff The way stores look and feel is an important part of the shopping trip.
Customers wanted a warmer, friendlier look and feel, so we have accelerated our Refresh programme to improve the environment in all our stores.
Investing over 200 million of additional were also making some changes that capital, we will refresh 430 stores in the particularly affect our larger stores.
coming year, representing about 25% Were drawing on the great success of of our UK space.
Bringing in a warmer, our new Extra format in Europe to make friendlier look and feel will go hand in sure that our UK Extras continue to meet hand with our work on quality and range, our customers changing needs, as they so that we offer customers great products increasingly combine shopping in store displayed in an attractive, inviting and online.
Future investment Listening to our staff In the last few years, both convenience Most of our changes are visible to and online shopping have been growing customers but we are making some equally rapidly.
While our existing large stores important changes behind the scenes.
in the UK perform very well, recognising the We ran a programme this year for staff to current economic climate and the growing email or text in comments about what importance of online shopping, we are not Bakery they felt needed to be fixed in their stores.
planning to open many more of the very Customers love being able to choose With 40,000 comments received, weve biggest.
Instead, more of our investment from freshly baked breads and cakes and see our bakers at work in the responded by rolling out new and better is going into refreshing our existing stores.
Displaying the goods equipment, like checkout chairs and New investment will be channelled into in baskets, not on standard shelves, handheld printers.
This has helped deliver Express stores and our online offer.
also helps to make our bakeries the best staff Viewpoint feedback survey much more appealing.
Scan here to see some The Extra format of the improvements were Customers are noticing the changes we are making in store, or visit making in stores across all of our formats www.
com ar2012 ukvideo Extra, Superstores, Metro and Express but Fixtures and fittings, lighting andspace We are refreshing our stores, inside and out, to make them more inviting.
Wooden cladding and brighter signage welcome customers into the store.
Inside, different areas are being given a more distinctive look and feel, such as wooden fixtures in Bakery, or sleek shelving and lighting in Health & Beauty.
Our produce aisles are more spacious, and our counters have less functional, more engaging signage, flat glass fronts and better lighting, to show off our meat, fish, cheese and deli products at their best.
12 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Click & Collect As the option of ordering online and picking up in store continues to grow in popularity, our stores are ideal collection points.
We will add 700 new collection points for Tesco Direct orders in the next year customers can already collect from over 770 stores, including 70 Express stores.
We will also continue to increase the number of stores with collection points for grocery, as well as trialling convenient joint collection points.
Retail services The services we offer in store like an optician, pharmacy, phone shop or customer restaurant all help customers to get more out of their everyday shopping trip.
We ended the year with over 180 opticians and are planning to increase the number of our phone shops to over 260 in the coming year.
Clothing The UK clothing market, worth 33 billion, is one of the few areas of discretionary spend that continues to grow and is a category where the internet has so far had a limited impact.
Our Central European Extras have shown us that Clothing tends to benefit from more space and better lighting on the shop floor, as customers love seeing more of our range.
As well as giving Clothing more space in store, we will be improving the ranges and quality we offer to ensure broad appeal.
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 13 Online: Making Clicks & Bricks a reality for customers Tesco Direct Growing our online businesses in all our markets is a strategic We have upgraded our Tesco Direct website priority for us and it shows how we are adapting to our to better showcase our great quality range and offer customers improved functionality customers changing needs.
Stores continue to sit at the and ease of use.
For the first time it is now heart of our business, but we are aiming to become a configured for mobile devices.
We will be moving our other UK Clothing and multi-channel retailer wherever we trade.
Entertainment websites onto the same platform later in the year.
Customers increasingly expect to be able to shop where, when and how they want: By Christmas we will have increased our the boundary between stores and online is blurring.
In developing our online offer, Direct range to 200,000 items, thanks in part we are drawing on our convenient store network and our expertise to meet our to third-party Sellers.
Having introduced our customers needs and help make their lives easier, progressing towards an offering first Sellers at Tesco Direct recently, we are where customers can shop with us anywhere, any time, any how.
offering our customers additional ranges teamed with Clubcard points and convenient Weve taken online far beyond everyday grocery shopping.
Digital technology allows store collection points, while our Seller us to meet the on the go needs of our customers with you can stream Partners benefit from our volume of online entertainment on the move and with our virtual stores in South Korea you can even traffic and expertise.
shop during your commute to work.
We want to offer our customers convenient options to shop with us using those access points stores, computers and mobile devices which are part of their daily lives.
Whether customers want to shop on the move using their smartphones, or take their time at home, we are innovating to help them shop however they want, with quick and easy apps and improved platforms.
Online grocery When we first launched a grocery home shopping service in 1997 wewere viewed as pioneers, and we have grown to be the worlds largest and most profitable online grocery retailer with sales of well over 2billion.
As technology moves forward so do we.
We use it to help make shopping easier for customers with a mobile web platform for shopping on the go, features like Favourites and tailored online offers developed for Tesco via analysis from dunnhumby, our marketing insight business.
Where customer demand is very high we have complemented our Scan here to see how in-store picking model with a number of specialised dotcom-only stores.
were developing our In January, we opened our fourth in Enfield.
We currently fulfil over 80% online offer, or visit of London orders from our dotcom-only stores, providing our customers www.
com ar2012 with our total food range more than can be offered from any one store.
onlinevideo 14 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Click & Collect Click & Collect is a key component of our multi-channel offering.
Our store and distribution networks mean we can give customers the opportunity to pick up products whenever it suits them from over 770 stores, close to where they live or work.
70% of online general merchandise orders are handled in this way.
Click & Collect is becoming increasingly relevant for all product groups.
We currently have 45 stores that offer grocery Click & Collect and we expect this number to increase quickly.
Our customers appreciate this innovative, quick and convenient service which fits well into their busy schedules.
Social media As our customers spend an increasing amount of time online we are able to use social media to build trust and understanding of our business.
This in turn helps to drive loyalty.
We have built our business on listening to our customers and acting on their feedback.
Social media allows us to have conversations with them on any issue at any time in the UK, we now have more than 680,000 likes on our Facebook page.
In 2011 we acquired BzzAgent a unique business combining word-of-mouth marketing with a commercial application of social media, helping to drive consumer advocacy and broaden our capability and innovation in product marketing.
Social media also helps us to be more effective and innovative in existing tasks such as recruitment and staff communication.
For example, our staff use Yammer aprivate social network for businesses to share best practice and celebrate success, often by posting photos, and we use it operationally for sharing messages and asking for feedback.
International growth We already have profitable online grocery businesses in South Korea and the Republic of Ireland, launched dotcom in the Czech Republic this year and are planning to begin soon in Warsaw.
In the next few years, we are planning to launch online grocery shopping in at least one major city in each of our markets, using our operating model to roll this out quickly and cost-effectively.
In Asia, were innovating to access the biggest opportunities for example, in addition to our online grocery service, our virtual stores in South Korea enable busy customers to shop on their way to work.
The Homeplus app has been downloaded over a million times.
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 15 International: Moving into the next phase of growth Since the mid-1990s, we have built an international business of more than 3,200 stores, which delivered more than 1 billion trading profit for the first time thisyear.
As we strive to become an outstanding international retailer, we are drawing on Tescos skill and scale to move into the next phase of growth.
Customers By Group scale, we mean using the size Consistent property love local and regional products: we pride of the Tesco business to benefit our ourselves on having local people running customers by lowering prices, improving blueprints our operations: and we use local knowledge quality, and sourcing new and different As we continue to grow our to source and to allocate space to the most products from the best suppliers around international businesses there is popular products.
However, lots of what we the world.
Globally sourcing food, general a significant opportunity to make do especially behind the scenes is best merchandise, and the goods that we use in savings from applying standardised property blueprints.
With the done in the same way across our markets.
store is one way that we are doing this.
We same specialist team designing We are increasingly realising our vision to buy some products from the same source the stores, we can build great stores win locally by applying our skills globally.
for all our markets, such as bananas, and for customers more quickly, more we buy others for a whole region, such as cheaply and with a reduced carbon Group skill and scale describes this step F&F clothing for Central Europe.
We also ensure the new in our evolution to becoming a global space is best used by reducing the on a larger scale means that we can achieve business.
By Group skill, we mean applying space given to offices and chillers in a better cost price and create headroom expertise from individual countries to all of the back, providing more room on to invest in improving the shopping trip our markets: Clubcard is a great example.
Having invested millions of pounds to develop the UK scheme in the late 1990s, Scan here to find out more we have been able to introduce a loyalty about our international scheme to each of our markets for a businesses, or visit fraction of the cost.
com ar2012 asiaandeurope Our evolution to becoming a global business International trading profit of over 1 billion bn 1.0 0.5 96 97 01 02 06 07 11 12 Since the mid-1990s, we have built an international business with more stores than we have in the UK, which has delivered more than 1 billion trading profit for the first time larger than any of our UK competitors.
With strong market positions, we are well positioned to move into the next phase of growth.
11 12 trading profit excludes Japan, which has been treated as discontinued following our decision to sell the business.
10 11 has been re-presented to be consistent.
The data up to and including 05 06 is statutory operating profit: from 06 07 it is trading profit.
16 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 s t e k r a m l l a n i t u o l l o r d n a e c i W t c o a r r k p t t o s g e e b t h y f e i r t n w e h d e I r e i t m a k e OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Smaller format stores Smaller format stores complement our established store networks to meet growing demands for convenience.
These formats are not only great for customers but are also cost-effective, utilising our existing distribution networks and requiring less capital.
One platform, many markets the best everywhere Rolling out the same processes and systems across the Group delivers a better shopping trip for lower cost.
Shelf-ready packaging and best practice replenishment processes support great availability for customers in store, while warehouse processes minimise stock loss and wastage.
We increase back-office efficiency through our shared service centre in India with the same team designing common features, such as self-service checkouts, for all our markets.
Reaping the benefits of centralised distribution As we buy more and more products on a regional or global scale, it becomes easier and Rolling out services more effective to organise our At year end, we had 47 of our Extra format stores internationally.
stores offer customers a whole range of services, such as photo shops, We have opened new depots opticians and phone shops, for relatively low investment as they use in Poland and China this year, existing hypermarket space and customer footfall.
Retail financial building them to a Group blueprint services are well established in Thailand and South Korea, where Tesco and implementing best practice partners with leading financial services providers, and in an earlier stage processes, equipment and systems.
of development in another sevenof our markets.
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 17 s s e n s e r e f f o l a c o l t s e b e h t n i t s e v n I International: Footholds in newer markets China: three regions the size of countries North region A large, rapidly growing market, China offers real Hymall opened here in 2001 and 11 long-term potential for growth, despite a currently years later we have 39 stores trading.
Our first Extra opened in Shenyang in challenging consumer environment.
Freezing cold in winter, our clothing and food ranges are very different to the East and South South region Present in this region for only four years, we continue to adapt our offer to meet consumer needs in this warmer part of China East region The home of Tesco in China is Shanghai and here we are trading our first Express convenience stores... and operating responsibly Diversity and complexity Our strategy in China Our stores are active in their local communities, A market of Chinas scale brings not only is to focus on building for example through Care for the Needy, where significant opportunities but also huge diversity scale in three regions we donate daily essentials to elderly and infirm and complexity.
To be successful, we need a people.
Drawing on our Group expertise and deep understanding of regional, provincial and which together have technologies, our new distribution centre in city-level differences, as well as an ability to a population of over Jiashan uses 45% less energy than a traditional leverage our global expertise and systems in depot.
These are just two examples of how we 600 million.
Our vision of winning operate responsibly through a combination of locally by applying our skills globally is key to being local and applying our skills globally.
our ambition to drive long-term, sustainable growth in China.
Group skill and scale The importance of being local... Tescos skill and scale are crucial to differentiating Even within a single region temperatures, our business in China.
Our new distribution tastes and preferred brands can all vary, so our centre was an important first step to streamlining operation is local in many ways.
For example, our supply chain, allowing us to buy on a greater our buying teams are based in different regions scale and giving us more control over the storage and even in specific provinces and cities to be and transportation of fresh produce.
Drawing close to our customers and suppliers.
We have on our brand capabilities, we have recently appointed more local Directors this year to relaunched the packaging for 250 of our ownstrengthen our China Board and have ongoing brand products, with hundreds more to follow in plans to recruit and develop local talent.
Our Shenyang Extra store has benefited from the success of our new format in Europe, with the senior team trained in our Extra store in Bratislava, Slovakia.
18 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Scan here to hear more from our Fresh & Easy colleagues, or visit www.
com ar2012 freshandeasyvideo Fresh & Easy: progress in the United States The Fresh & Easy shopping trip The journey to profitability The changes we have made Our Fresh & Easy business is about The results of these changes mean that to stores this year are building wholesome, fresh, high-quality food in we are more confident about the outlook real momentum in Fresh & the heart of the neighbourhood, with great for the business, although clearly much staff giving the best customer service.
We have reduced Easy, driving growing customer We have made changes this year to bring trading losses by 18% and are on track numbers and sales and out these features and give them more for another significant reduction in 2012 13, prominence in our stores.
With a friendlier even if the timing of break-even will now delivering reduced losses store environment and atmosphere, the be later than our earlier expectation.
quality of our fresh and prepared produce is because we will focus on more stores more apparent and the launch of our reaching profitability first, before pushing Friends card to thank our loyal customers, on faster with the expansion we need to we have driven 12% like-for-like sales create sufficient scale to cover our overheads.
growth this year and total sales growth We ended the year with 185 stores and of 27%.
will have approaching 230 stores by the end of the coming year.
Doors on our fridges and freezers, wooden floors and brighter walls all make our stores more inviting for customers New prepared ranges from the Fresh & Easy Kitchen, offering wholesome, natural Customers can see and and tasty meals feel the quality of our loose fresh produce Fresh & Easy superstars go the extra mile for customers and help create a culture of personal service Friends loyalty card thanks our customers Welcoming customers for shopping with with new fresh ranges: Fresh & Easy flowers, fresh bread and coffee to go Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 19 Retail services: A Tesco Bank for Tesco customers Tesco Bank brings Tescos Values, customer focus and trusted brand name to a big market and is differentiated by being a bank that has Tesco at its centre.
We offer simple, convenient, value for money products in what can be a highly complex market.
Since we took full ownership of Tesco are not incentivised to sell, which means Bank in 2008 we have been in a period that discussions with customers can of transition.
In just over three years we focus solely on meeting their banking and have developed a completely new insurance needs.
Over the last three years, infrastructure for the business, built up a we have built a strong team with experience new team and brought in new expertise and expertise, growing dramatically from effectively building a new bank from 300 to 2,800 people.
We are now completing the very In terms of systems and IT, our new final stages of this huge project, as we platforms have enabled some significant move towards offering a full-service Savings and loans: customer service improvements.
Our savings book continues to grow decisions are now available on loan well, with retail savings deposits At its core, Tesco Bank is underpinned applications, and customers can open increasing by around 330 million and fund savings accounts in just ten by the Tesco brand and Clubcard, and its this year.
Clubcard insight supports minutes, which had previously taken operations are effective because of our our competitive customer offering around twoweeks.
and high quality loan book.
Even While we have completed the majority Being part of Tesco delivers benefits for though loan balances have been of the transition from The Royal Bank of customers and Tesco Bank.
For example, temporarily reduced this year as we Scotlands RBS systems and platforms the insight we gain from Clubcard allows have undergone migration, customer to our own, we did encounter some us to understand our customers needs accounts in loans and savings have technical issues during the summer of 2011. well, helping us to provide them with the increased by 30% since 2008.
We are We pride ourselves on being a bank that most relevant offers in a clear and simple continuing to attract new customers customers can rely on and trust, and to way and at a great price.
who know that the Bank is reliable, ensure that the continuing process was trustworthy and good value.
Tesco Clubcard credit card rewards as smooth as possible for customers and customers with Clubcard points whenever staff, we decided to slow the remaining they use their card.
Clubcard customers can transition of our 2.8 million credit card also receive preferential deals when buying accounts.
Tesco Bank products including discounts Even with all this work going on, we have on car, home, pet and travel insurance grown the business during 2011 12.
The and can use Clubcard points to buy Tesco savings book was up 7% versus a market Bank insurance.
This year, Tesco Bank of 3%, and the underlying performance gave customers around 70 million of of the Bank remained good, with strong Clubcard points to spend in store or on growth in baseline profit which excludes Clubcard rewards.
The Tesco Values sit at the heart of Tesco In the last three years, we have seen Bank.
Our core purpose is To create value significant growth across key Bank for customers to earn their lifetime loyalty, products.
We have laid our foundations so our people focus on providing great for growth and, with the transition from customer service.
At our Glasgow and RBS almost complete, we are now in a Newcastle customer service centres, staff position to grow the business faster.
Scan here to watch our video about Tesco Bank, or visit www.
com ar2012 tescobankvideo 20 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 e c n a r u s n I P N e e o w p l p e r o d u c t s d n s s r o m i e a t c c e i c OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Transaction services: Our transaction services ATMs and travel bureaux offer customers convenience while they are on the go.
Both saw strong growth in the year, with ATM transactions up 9% and travel money transactions up 12%.
We ended the year with 3,265 ATMs, up from 2,600 three years ago, and we have close to 200 travel bureaux across our store network.
Insurance: Our products help support customers in their daily lives, giving them peace of mind wherever they are.
Simple to understand, our range of products continues to prove popular with customers.
Around 1.5 million people now insure their cars and homes with Tesco Bank.
Since 2008, our car insurance gross written premiums have increased by 39% and pet insurance gross written premiums are up by 44%.
New products: the best experience, so we believe Credit cards: Tesco Bank has been growing well getting it right at launch is more We are increasing our share of the even without new product launches, important than rushing the process.
market, with 57% growth in credit but the products weve launched Once we have completed the final card transactions since 2008.
Three on our own systems have enjoyed stage of migration, we can push on years ago, Tesco Bank credit cards huge success.
Our Fixed Rate Saver, faster with more substantial new made up 9% of all MasterCard launched in October 2010, has products, starting with mortgages.
and Visa credit card transactions grown to 1.5 billion and our retail in the UK that figure is now 12%.
Current accounts are planned bonds have attracted investments Customers benefit from the added to follow and we welcome the of 185 million.
These initiatives Tesco extras that come with their recommendation of the diversify our funding base and credit card, such as collecting one Independent Commission on increase the long-term funding Clubcard point for every 4 spent.
Banking to make it easier for available to the Bank.
customers to switch between banks.
We always want to give our customers the best products and Rates are subject to change and are correct as at April 2012.
Fixed rate saver: one-off payment and money cannot be withdrawn until the end of the term.
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 21 a v t s b r s n e y u a s r S l T C C r e d i t c I a T r d s s n s g a n o i l v a d S n a Our dedication to the community: Thailand In 2011, Thailand suffered its worst floods Our stores are important parts in 70 years.
At Tesco Lotus our staff went of local communities.
We are to incredible lengths through immensely committed to being a good difficult conditions to get essential supplies into our stores for customers.
neighbour and making a Events such as the floods are a reminder difference to the communities of the strength of local communities and we live and work in, including how people turn to them in times of need.
supporting the causes that They are also a reminder of the importance of providing customers with good quality, matter to our customers and safe, affordable food, whenever they our people.
22 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Like all Thai retailers, we faced a major challenge with the flood crisis but at Tesco Lotus the team worked incredibly hard to find ways to get products into store and support local people.
Scan here to Our people came into work even when their own homes were flooded.
We used trains see our Thai and planes to bring products in and worked together across the Group to secure deliveries.
team in action or visit www.
Tesco in Malaysia provided three million litres of water and eight million packets of noodles tescoplc.
com and our global suppliers helped to secure canned fish, eggs and UHT milk.
ar2012 thailand video We used our stores as donation centres for customers who wanted to support flood victims and contributed almost 500,000 of essential products.
For our staff affected, we provided financial support as well as relief bags, food, temporary accommodation and transport.
Through teamwork at Tesco Lotus and the support of the Group, we were able to help the people of Thailand during this difficult time a recovery effort that is still continuing.
I would like to thank the whole team again for their extraordinary dedication.
Chris Bush CEO Tesco Lotus at the time of the floods, now COO Tesco UK Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 23 Business model Our strategy is put into action through our business model.
At its heart is our core purpose: To create value for customers to earn their lifetime loyalty.
24 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Business model Building Core activities the Tesco The virtuous volume circle brand Enablers Develop Sell Insight economies more of scale Leveraging Innovating Group skill our offer and scale Core purpose: Sell Buy To create value for customers to earn their lifetime loyalty Operating Developing responsibly our people Sell for Buy for Move less less Creating valuable property customers shopping patterns.
Our marketing insight business, Core activities dunnhumby, provides analysis which we feed back into our business model, shaping our product and range development and Our core business model is simple: we buy, enabling us to offer customers the best products and promotions move and sell products and services to our for their particular needs.
customers and use customer insight to do this Buy: slightly better each time.
A great range of products In food, general merchandise and services, we work with our Insight: suppliers and develop our brands to bring a great range to Improving the customer offer our customers.
Listening to customers in a wide variety of ways is key to what we The relationship with our suppliers is the foundation of our do.
We engage with customers through a range of focus groups customer offer.
We work with a broad range of suppliers, from and ongoing research trackers, and actively seek feedback on global produce suppliers and international FMCG companies to what is good or not so good, such as through our Every Comment local suppliers who provide products for a single region in one Helps scheme in the UK.
Online and social media make it easier of our markets.
We sell over 1 billion of local products annually to listen and respond to large numbers of customers in real time, in the UK and, across Europe, our series of meet the buyer events through webchats, Facebook and Twitter.
The insight from all helped us to stock hundreds of new local products this year.
of these conversations increasingly feeds into the customer offer so that we can continually drive incremental improvements With our established private label programme, we produce great for customers.
quality Tesco brands at a range of price points, from Everyday Value up to Finest.
Our product brands also have established Our loyalty schemes, such as Clubcard or Legou Tesco Membercard market positions.
For example, F&F, which is the market leader in China, are not only great for our customers but also provide in clothing in the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, is itself data insight to enable us to continually improve the shopping trip.
diversified into distinct sub-brands for different clothing styles.
With a loyalty scheme in all of our markets and around 44 million active customers in total, we are in a unique position to understand Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 25 Business model In services, we often work with specialist partners to source the customers the option of combining stores and online with Click & best product offerings.
For example, we created a joint venture Collect, which makes the most of our convenient store locations, between Vodafone and Tesco Hungary this year, and Tesco Bank giving customers an easy way to pick up products ordered online.
insurance underwriting is primarily provided in partnership with We also offer a wide range of services to our customers.
opticians, pharmacies and phone shops available in our larger stores, and Tesco Bank products available to buy in store, over Move: the phone or online, we are deepening our customers relationship The right products at the right time with Tesco, bringing our values of convenience, simplicity, reliability Our network of distribution centres DCs and advanced technology and great customer service into what can be complex markets.
support a modern, efficient and cost-effective supply chain.
We dont always sell our products ourselves.
In South Korea and An efficient distribution system starts with understanding which the Czech Republic, we operate franchise chains alongside our products our stores need.
First, we forecast own stores, and we have also recently announced a new franchise what customers will buy, using sophisticated, detailed models model for our F&F clothing brand in Saudi Arabia.
to consider variables such as seasonality, weather forecasts and likely response to promotions.
Second, our ordering systems The virtuous volume circle automatically update in real time based on what customers do By keeping our customer focus central to our business model, actually buy, so that we can quickly and accurately supply stores we are able to provide a leading customer offer: a broad range of with the right products at the right time.
products and services at great prices, sold in shops in convenient We plan our distribution processes, systems and network of DCs locations and, increasingly, available online.
A great customer to maximise efficiency.
Labour scheduling and transport planning offer drives the virtuous volume circle, which means that we can systems enable our pickers and drivers to operate highly effectively, continuously improve our offer.
By selling more products, we and we develop our distribution networks to minimise the mileage are able to work with our suppliers to drive mutually beneficial needed to get products to store in perfect condition.
We also use economies of scale, creating headroom to invest and to offer lower transport other than lorries such as our four train services in the prices to customers.
An important element of our Plan to improve UK, which save 15,000 tonnes of CO2 per year.
business performance in the UK is centred on investing in the shopping trip so that customers will reward us by buying more Continually striving to make every part of the process productive, from Tesco.
through primary distribution, we use our network to pick products up from some of our suppliers and transport them to our depots, which can be more cost-effective than individual suppliers Enablers delivering to us.
We also use return journeys from stores to depots to pick up waste materials which we sell for recycling.
Our core business model is supported by enablers which maximise the potential of our Sell: core activities to give our customers the best The best shopping trip shopping trip and ensure that our activities Whether in store, online or a combination of both, we pride ourselves on delivering a great shopping trip for our customers, are carried out in a sustainable way.
Leveraging Group skill and scale: One of Tescos Values is No one tries harder for customers, and this can be seen in how we strive to improve the shopping trip.
This Making our business Better, Simpler, Cheaper, Faster represents every element of the customer shopping experience, Sharing best practice systems, processes and approaches across including price, range, quality, availability and service.
Our loyalty all of our markets takes our business model to the next level.
schemes are key to the customer offering, thanking customers By identifying best practice in each market, we can improve our each time they shop at Tesco.
For example, some of the very popular brands we have developed in Fresh & Easy in the US have recently We take a multi-format approach to our store network, to be been introduced into the UK and South Korea.
As our international able to meet our customers needs for different types of shopping experience grows, we are increasingly benefitting from sharing trip, from large Extra stores that offer a full range of food, general best practice with our UK Operating Board all having spent some merchandise and services, to Metro and Express convenience stores.
of their careers in our international businesses.
Selling refers to a broader and broader range of activities as we Group skill and scale supports each of our core activities: utilising develop our multi-channel offer.
We launched a grocery home Insight, Buying, Moving and Selling.
Utilising Insight as a Group, shopping service in the UK in 1997.
Since then, we have grown this with a loyalty scheme in all of our markets, means we can business to over 2 billion of annual sales, launched grocery home continually innovate the customer offer.
Our Turkish business shopping in South Korea, the Republic of Ireland and the Czech launched Clubcard this year, which would not normally be possible Republic, and launched further online businesses, such as Direct, Clothing and Entertainment.
We are increasingly offering 26 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model for a business of its size.
Buying as a Group is cost-effective, Operating responsibly: creating headroom to invest in the customer shopping trip, such Ensuring that growth is sustainable as by sourcing consumables in Central Europe as a Group.
Moving By operating responsibly, we not only benefit and secure the future as a Group, with distribution centre blueprints, systems, and of our business but we can bring real benefits to the communities the early stages of borderless distribution, makes our deliveries in which we operate.
simpler and faster, with new distribution centres opened in both Poland and China this year.
Selling as a Group, with our Extra At the heart of our commitment to operating responsibly is format already in eight international markets, including the providing our customers with good quality, safe and affordable Czech Republic, Thailand and China, offers customers a better food.
This is easily taken for granted in developed economies, shopping experience.
but can be a real challenge in economies with low penetration of modern retail and under-developed supply chains.
Of course we dont believe in one size fits all.
There are many things that are best done locally because customer tastes and We can only achieve this by working with our suppliers to ensure lifestyles are not uniform.
Our businesses are run predominantly our supply chain is both resilient and efficient.
Strong, fair, mutually by local teams, not by expats, so that our operations can be close beneficial, long-term partnerships with suppliers, from local to to the customers we serve, and our local ranges both support our global, are at the heart of this.
The strength of our supply network smaller suppliers and give customers a tailored product offering.
was evident during the Thai floods this year, enabling us to secure essential supplies from Malaysia and other markets.
Developing our people: We are committed to the responsible sourcing of raw materials, Our most important asset ensuring the resilience of our supply chain and managing our Great service can make a customers day, and we achieve this impact on the environment.
We work with the wider industry on when our people live the Tesco Values: No one tries harder core issues, such as water scarcity, and co-chair the Sustainability for customers and Treat people how we like to be treated.
Our Steering Group of the Consumer Goods Forum, which has pledged business is built on the commitment of more than half a million to help end deforestation by 2020.
We aim to be a zero-carbon people across the world and, in return for their commitment, business by 2050 and are mapping the biggest opportunities to cut we offer them good jobs and careers with Tesco.
Developing carbon in our supply chain, as well as continually exploring new our people takes many forms, from training in our state-of-the-art energy efficiency measures to be introduced across the Group.
training academy in Asia, to offering jobs to the long-term unemployed through Regeneration Partnerships and supporting Innovating our offer: the development of women to management positions.
Constantly improving our customer offer Creating valuable property: To continue to meet customers changing needs, we are constantly innovating our offer in a whole variety of ways.
Innovation can The best located and best designed stores bring greater convenience to an existing way of shopping, as Our site research and property capabilities enable us to identify with self-service checkouts.
It can offer customers a new way of and develop the best sites for our stores.
Tesco has great depth shopping, as with Click & Collect grocery or our virtual stores in of experience in property development all around the world.
It can combine our presence in shops and online Optimal sites for new store developments and extensions are into a compelling customer proposition: for example, a customer identified by our site research departments.
We have a flexible registered with Blinkbox can automatically receive a digital copy approach to property acquisition, considering both freehold of most new Hollywood releases when they buy the DVD with and leasehold sites and assessing each opportunity on its a Clubcard in store.
By drawing on the breadth of our expertise merits.
Using a range of data, such as demographics and and by always putting the customer first, we continue to serve competitor activity, we forecast sales for a new store to a high customers how they want to be served in a changing and degree of accuracy, so that we can develop the stores with the increasingly joined-up world.
Building the Tesco Brand: Once a site has been identified, approved and secured, our To be seen as the most highly valued business in the world property development and construction teams design and develop Through everything we do, we strive towards our vision of being the site.
Years of experience have fed into Group-wide blueprints seen as the most highly valued business in the world valued not and specifications so that all of our development takes place to only by our customers, but also by the communities we serve, our the highest standard.
Protecting and developing our brand In many of our international markets, Tesco owns or leases whole reputation is the foundation of customer loyalty and of how we are malls, which are anchored by a Tesco hypermarket.
Operating the seen by our many stakeholders and enables our business model to mall and renting out the space to other retailers, cafs and cinemas operate effectively.
For example, our diversification into services creates a great destination shopping centre for customers, as well such as Tesco Bank is built on customers trust in the Tesco brand as bringing in significant rental income, which makes Tesco one of to offer good value, simple solutions and great customer service: the largest mall operators in the world.
and our recruitment and retention of great staff depends on our reputation for customer service and offering good jobs and careers.
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 27 Performance review IN THIS SECTION This section provides detailed 29 Key performance indicators information on our financial 33 Financial review and non-financial performance over the past year.
In Key performance indicators, you will find sections covering Group performance, Group financial ratios and all seven parts of our strategy.
Our Financial review section then takes you through the financial performance of each of our business segments in theyear.
More detailed definitions for our Group performance and Group financial KPIs can be found in the glossary on page 48.
28 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Key performance indicators Financial review Key performance indicators Our KPIs measure how we are doing across the Group in terms of both operational and financial performance in the context of the key elements of our strategy.
All KPIs exclude the results from our operation in Japan for 2011 12 unless stated otherwise.
Group performance Growth in underlying profit Return on Capital Employed ROCE Growth in underlying diluted earnings before tax per share at a constant tax rate 1.6% 13.3% 2.1% 14.6% 13.3% 12.9% 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 9.8% 8.7% 12.3% 1.6% 11.0% 7.7% 10.8% 2.1% Definition Definition 10 11 11 12 14 15 Our underlying profit provides information Underlying diluted earnings per share EPS TARGET on the underlying trend and performance is the amount of underlying profit, adjusted of the business.
It is adjusted for a number for the number of shares in issue.
Definition of non-cash accounting adjustments and ROCE is a relative profit measurement that Performance one-off costs.
demonstrates the return the business is The growth in underlying diluted EPS reflects Performance generating from its gross assets.
modest progress in earnings in the year.
The We saw modest progress in the year, with proposed full year dividend per share grew by Performance the rate of improvement impacted by two 2.1%, in line with this, to 14.76p, continuing Although our UK performance was weaker than events: the Hungary crisis tax 38 million and our unrivalled record of consecutive years of planned, ROCE improved by 40 basis points, the increase in provision for Payment Protection dividend growth in the FTSE 100. benefiting from Japan now being classified Insurance PPI in Tesco Bank 57 million.
Growth before these impacts was 5.4%.
Restated for IFRS 2 and IFRIC 13.
Group financial ratios Total shareholder return TSR Capital expenditure capex % of sales Definition Capex is the investment in property, plant and equipment, investment property and % 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 intangible assets.
This is divided by Group 10 sales inc. VAT, inc. petrol to show a relative 8.0% 9.5% 6.7% 3.0 % investment to sales.
8 Performance Definition This year we reduced our rate of capital TSR is the notional annualised return from a investment to reflect the challenging trading share: the percentage change in the share price, 6 environment and increased our focus on lower plus the dividends paid and reinvested, over the capital-intensive investments with high returns, last five years.
For example, five-year TSR for 4 such as online and convenience.
11 12 is the annualised growth in the share price 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 from 06 07 and dividends paid and reinvested Last year we set a target of 5% to 5.5% of in Tesco shares, as a percentage of the 06 07 sales.
We will reduce capex to 3.3 billion in share price.
12 13 and, beyond that, comfortably less than 5.0% of sales.
Performance Returns reduced reflecting the effect on our share price of our decision to invest significantly in the customer offer in the UK.
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 29 Key performance indicators Group financial ratios continued Net indebtedness Times Definition Performance Net indebtedness shows debt in Net indebtedness remained broadly 4 relation to operating cashflow flat, reflecting a slower than expected EBITDAR.
Debt is adjusted net working capital improvement and 3 debt, calculated as net debt, the higher pension deficit, offset by cash pension deficit and the net present generated from retail operations 2 value of lease obligations.
Our target 1 for net indebtedness is 2.5 times.
06 07 07 08 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 Gearing Fixed charge cover Definition The number of times that our 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 operating cashflow EBITDAR covers Times our debt obligations largely rent and 74.4% 54.0% 40.8% 38.4% 8 interest payments.
Performance 6 Definition Our fixed charge cover remained The proportion of net assets financed through debt rather 4 broadly flat due to increased rent than equity, calculated as net debt divided by total equity.
offsetting our reduced interest and Performance 2 increase in operating cashflow Our gearing continued to decrease, reflecting our stable EBITDAR.
Our target is a level of debt position despite our investment in assets growing.
cover in the band of 4 to 4.5 times.
Group strategy: To grow the UK core UK like-for-like inc. VAT, exc.
petrol UK trading profit Definition The profit generated from the UK business in its retail operations.
08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 Performance 3.0% 2.6% 1.0% 0.0% 2,504m Having delivered a solid first half profit 2,480m 2,413m 2,309m outcome, profits weakened in the second half, reflecting a disappointing Definition sales performance and the initial FOCUS The growth in sales from stores that FOR investment in improving the shopping have been open for at least a year.
2012 13 trip for customers which we began during the second half of the year.
Performance Having delivered a disappointing performance, 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 particularly during the second half, our UK Plan aims to drive stronger like-for-like sales.
Customer rating of overall Definition Growth in UK Definition shopping experience as Percentage of customer ratings, online sales The year-on-year sales growth from excellent or good measured in exit interviews.
Performance Performance Three quarters of customers find their We are pleased with the performance shopping experience good or excellent, of our online businesses.
Our largest 76% 10% and 98% find it reasonable, good business, grocery, accelerated its or excellent.
With our UK Plan, we already strong rate of growth through FOCUS aim to improve customers shopping the year.
FOR experiences from reasonable to good 2012 13 and from good to excellent.
30 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Key performance indicators Financial review Group strategy: To be an outstanding international retailer in stores and online International trading profit Proportion of customers pleased with Growth in international online sales their shopping trip 1,113m 946m 749m 709m 95% 40% in 9 markets Definition The year-on-year sales growth from our Definition 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 international online businesses.
The number of markets where at least 95% Definition of customers asked were very or fairly satisfied Performance The profit generated from our international with their overall shopping experience, the top From a low base we are starting to see businesses in their retail operations.
accelerating growth, with our established Performance international online operations in South Performance We delivered strong profit growth of 18% Korea and the Republic of Ireland doing well.
The pleasing results reflect the improvements against a background of very difficult economic we have been driving internationally through conditions in several of our large markets.
Source: Country customer satisfaction tracker.
Group strategy: To be as strong in everything we sell as we are in food UK general merchandise, Definition Proportion of UK customers Definition clothing and electricals Our relative position among competitors, buying general merchandise, The average weekly proportion of range image as rated by customers.
clothing and electricals UK Clubcard customers who bought a general merchandise, clothing or Performance electricals item.
With a leading position among our supermarket peers, we are driving substantial improvements Performance 37% 1s t to our range in order to increase our With the current economic conditions, competitiveness among specialist retailers, down from 39% we are seeing subdued demand for supermarket with plans for 200,000 products on Tesco discretionary items.
last year Source: Marketing Sciences.
Definition International general Definition Proportion of general The proportion, by sales, of general merchandise, clothing The number of international markets where merchandise, clothing merchandise, clothing and electricals and electricals we are ranked first or second by customers and electricals sourced we buy together, through our Group range image for our general merchandise range.
This as a Group Commercial function.
excludes the US, where we operate convenience stores.
Performance From this already substantial proportion 9 Performance 27% of Group sourcing, we expect to increase Our position reflects the strength of the F&F markets 1st the amount that we buy together in the brand and of our Extra stores, which are coming years as we leverage Group skill or 2nd place introducing our customers to different ways and scale.
of shopping, with stronger ranging and a Source: Country distinctive look and feel for different categories.
Group strategy: To grow retail services in all our markets Bank Trading profit Baseline profit Definition profit Trading profit measures the profit generated by the business in its operations.
264m 250m Baseline profit is measured before key non-trading provisioning movements, including Payment Protection Insurance PPI, and before fair value, and 203m provides information on business performance.
168m 158m 132m Performance Baseline profit rose 29% in the year, reflecting strong business growth.
By contrast, trading profit fell 36%, impacted by the increase in a provision for claims from historic sales of PPI: and the unwinding of the fair value 09 10 10 11 11 12 09 10 10 11 11 12 provision, an accounting adjustment made at the time of acquisition in 2008.
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 31 Key performance indicators Group strategy: To put our responsibilities to the communities we serve at the heart of what we do Reduction in CO2 emissions Supplier Viewpoint Donation of pre-tax profits to charities and good causes 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 4.8% 7.8% 7.7% 5.0% 74% 1.
9% over 74.5m in total Definition Definition The percentage of positive scores from our The year-on-year reduction in greenhouse gas annual survey of suppliers, Supplier Viewpoint, Definition emissions from existing stores and distribution when we ask whether Tesco treats them Our contribution to charities and good causes centres built before 2006 07, adjusted to exclude with respect.
through direct donations, cause-related emissions from acquisitions and extensions.
marketing, gifts in kind, staff time and Performance Performance management costs.
In 2011 12, we exceeded our target of 70%, We met our target for 2011 12 to reduce representing generally strong supplier Performance our CO2 emissions by 5%.
We exceeded our target of donating 1% of have reduced our emissions from existing stores pre-tax profits to charities and good causes, and distribution centres by 26% since 2006 07. contributing over 74.5 million.
For further Corporate Responsibility KPIs, please see our Corporate Responsibility Review 2012 at www.
Group strategy: To be a creator of highly valued brands Customer loyalty Definition Group-wide own-label Definition The number of markets where we are participation Own-label sales as a proportion placed 1st or 2nd for the proportion of of total Group sales.
Own-label customers who do over 50% of their sales include Tesco brands such shopping with a single retailer.
as F&F, Finest or Venture brands 9 38% and unbranded products, such as Performance produce.
Tesco Bank and Tesco markets 1st We are particularly pleased that Mobile are not included.
we lead on loyalty in four of our or 2nd place markets and are second in a further Performance five.
This is an important indicator of Group own-label participation our customers satisfaction with the was stable in the year.
Range & shopping trip and the Tesco brand Quality is one part of our Plan and is supported by a loyalty scheme for the UK, with Tesco Value now in each of our markets.
relaunched as Everyday Value and upgrades to over 8,000 Tesco Source: Market research standard lines planned.
Tesco own-label brands GFK, Ipsos, Kantar.
Group strategy: To build our team so that we create more value Staff retention Definition Staff being trained for Definition The proportion of staff with over a their next role The proportion of staff who are on years service who have worked for development programmes training Tesco in the UK throughout the year.
Performance Performance 90% 5.9% Our strong retention rate in the We exceeded our 5.6% target in the UK UK reflects our focus on creating good across the Group this year, demonstrating our jobs and long-term careers, providing commitment to supporting and career development and an excellent developing our people so that they benefits package.
are able to advance their careers.
32 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Key performance indicators Financial review Financial review Group results Group results 2011 12 52 weeks ended 25 February 2012 2011 12 Growth Group sales inc. VAT 72,035m7.4% Group revenue exc.
VAT, inc. IFRIC 13 64,539m 6.8% Group trading profit 3,761m 1.3% Group trading profit pre Bank PPI provision 3,856m 5.2% increase and Hungary sales tax Underlying profit before tax 3,915m 1.6% Underlying profit before tax pre Bank PPI 4,010m 5.4% provision increase and Hungary sales tax Group profit before tax 3,835m 5.3% Underlying diluted earnings per share 37.41p 2.1% Dividend per share 14.76p 2.1% Group sales inc. VAT exclude the accounting impact of IFRIC 13.
Underlying diluted earnings per share EPS growth calculated on a constant tax rate basis: 3.2% at actual tax rates.
Laurie McIlwee Chief Financial Officer In a challenging year for consumers in many of our markets, as they try to manage household budgets pressured by inflation, austerity and high fuel prices, we have made modest progress at a Group level.
The international businesses performed strongly, delivering an 18% increase in profits, which helped to compensate for the Our financial results demonstrate the reduction in trading profit in the UK.
breadth of the Tesco Group.
Thanks to strong We have acted where our strategy was not delivering as we had performances internationally particularly in hoped.
In the United States, we reduced losses, moving towards break-even, before accelerating investment: in Japan, we announced Asia we have been able to deliver modest our decision to exit the market after eight years: in China, we stepped profit growth for the Group.
Going forward, a back from the freehold shopping centre programme and have financial strategy of increased capital discipline decided to hold back on the pace of new leasehold hypermarket development for the time being: at the Bank, we slowed down the and restraint will support the changes we migration to our own platforms to ensure it was as smooth as possible: are making for customers and will drive and in the UK, we took a significant step to correct our pricing higher cash generation and higher returns position with The Big Price Drop and, in January, acted decisively to address the underperformance in our home market.
will make Tesco better for our customers and are supported by a financial strategy that will also make Tesco better for shareholders.
Segmental results UK UK results 2011 12 2011 12 Growth UK sales 47,355m 6.2% UK revenue exc.
impact of IFRIC 13 42,798m 5.0% UK trading profit 2,480m 1.0 % Trading margin trading profit revenue 5.79% 35 bp Basis points.
In the UK we saw strong total sales growth driven by a good new store performance, but our like-for-like growth was disappointing, particularly in the second half of the year.
This was not helped by reduced inflation resulting from our Big Price Drop and a weak Christmas, which was affected by the substantial increase in competitor couponing activity.
Like-for-like sales growth recovered Group results exclude the results from our operation in Japan which have been treated as discontinued following our decision to sell the business.
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 33 Financial review Europe UK trading profit 2,504m Europe results 2011 12 2,480m 2,413m 2,309m Actual rates Constant rates 2011 12 Growth Growth Europe sales 11,371m 7.7% 7.8% Europe revenue 9,866m 7.3% 7.5% exc.
impact of IFRIC 13 Europe trading profit 529m 0.4% 0.4 % 09 10 10 11 11 12 08 09 Trading margin 5.36% 37 bp 42 bp trading profit revenue Against this background of slower than planned like-for-like growth and a further weakening in our performance relative to the wider A resilient overall performance in Europe was impacted by two industry, we took the decision in January to accelerate a plan factors.
Despite a strong sales performance in Poland, profits were which had been developed over the course of 2011 to make held back by significant disruption connected to the opening of our substantial changes to the UK business.
The combined revenue new distribution centre and a non-food stock write-off.
The crisis and capital investment involved in these initiatives will exceed tax of 38 million in Hungary had a material impact on profits.
1 billion, supported by a significant reset to the level of UK Excluding this, we saw double-digit profit growth for the Central margins in order to give us the financial resources we need to European businesses a pleasing performance in light of the make comprehensive improvements for customers.
broader economic issues affecting the eurozone.
Our Irish business Asia delivered a robust performance in the context of the severity of the recession there.
Asia results 2011 12 Actual rates Constant rates The particular circumstances of the Republic of Ireland and 2011 12 Growth Growth Hungary have led us to focus on driving trade from our existing Asia sales 11,627m 10.5% 10.4% stores and we have scaled back our investment in new space.
Focusing our efforts on our existing stores has driven Asia revenue 10,828m 10.5% 10.3% exc.
impact of IFRIC 13 strengthening like-for-likes and continued increases in market Asia trading profit 737m 21.8% 21.5% share in both markets.
Trading margin 6.81% 64bp 62bp trading profit revenue Europe trading profit 529m 527m 496m 474m We delivered a good performance across all our markets in Asia, with solid like-for-like growth.
Our performance in Thailand was obviously impacted by the devastating floods but the business has returned to strong growth as the country gets back to normal.
Asia margins grew by over 60 basis points in the year, mainly due to the swift resolution of our insurance claim in Thailand, which has mitigated 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 the profit impact of store closures during the flooding.
South Korea and Malaysia both had a good year for sales and margin growth, although this was offset by increased losses in China where, in United States common with other businesses, we faced a challenging year.
US results 2011 12 Asia trading profit Actual rates Constant rates 2011 12 Growth Growth 737m US sales 638m 27.1% 31.5% 605m US revenue 630m 27.3% 31.7% exc.
impact of IFRIC 13 440m 355m US trading profit loss 153 m Improved Improved 17.7% 15.1% 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 In the US, Fresh & Easy delivered another strong sales performance and we have reduced losses by nearly 18% year-on-year the first Asia results from 2011 12 exclude results from our operation in Japan full-year reduction in losses since our entry into the market.
which have been treated as discontinued following our decision to sell the business.
2010 11 results have been re-presented to be consistent.
34 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Key performance indicators Financial review US trading loss Group balance sheet Net debt remained stable for the year at 6.8 billion.
This is a little 142 m 165 m 186 m 153 m behind our expectations at the half-year, due to the impact of the Christmas trading result on cash flow and to lower working capital inflow, linked to higher stock levels than planned.
Group capital 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 expenditure was slightly below our half-year expectation, at 3.8 billion, due to tight control of spending.
Operating cash An increasing number of stores are reaching shop-door profitability, flow from retail operations was down slightly year-on-year, which means that they are operating profitably, before taking at 3.8 billion, again affected by lower working capital inflow.
Thirty stores are already making a positive contribution to cashflow, and 118 more are very close to doing so.
Our strategy to release value from our property portfolio has had We intend to focus on delivering this store-level profitability, before another successful year, generating 376 million of property profits pushing on faster with expansion in the number of stores.
As a result from around 1 billion of disposals.
The launch of our first property of this more measured approach to new capital expenditure, we now fund in Asia completed successfully after the year end, raising over anticipate crossing into break-even in the US during 2013 14.
379 million from 17 mature stores and malls in Thailand.
With the fund seeing strong demand on launch, and since trading above Tesco Bank its listing price, this is a strong indication of the overall value of our Tesco Bank results 2011 12 operations in Thailand and elsewhere in Asia.
The market value of 2011 12 Growth our global property currently exceeds 37 billion.
Tesco Bank revenue 1,044m 13.6% Finally, our IAS 19, or accounting, pension deficit increased to exc.
impact of IFRIC 13 1.4billion after tax, largely as a consequence of market conditions.
Tesco Bank trading profit 168m 36.4 % We announced proposed changes to the terms of our defined Tesco Bank trading margin 16.09% 1,264 bp benefits scheme in March, in order to make it more sustainable Tesco Bank baseline profit 203m 29.3% over the long term.
We also made a one-off cash contribution of 180 million to the scheme after the year end, in anticipation of the Tesco Bank increased its baseline profitability very strongly by 29%.
forthcoming outcome of the triennial actuarial valuation, which we This measures business growth, before key non-trading provisioning believe gives a more accurate indication of the likely costs of future movements.
This performance was particularly pleasing given the funding of the scheme.
need to take a conservative approach on new savings and loans business during the final stages of systems migration.
As we put Group financial metrics more than three years of transition behind us, the Bank is well placed A year ago I set out four key financial metrics or measures to help to deliver good growth, starting in the coming year.
investors monitor our capital returns performance, debt and overall Trading profit was impacted by a number of factors.
Taking each in turn, we have improved return on of the fair value provision, dating from the time of acquisition in capital employed ROCE from 12.9% last year to 13.3%.
This 2008, reduced by 133 million in the year, to 22 million, and will improvement benefits from Japan now being classified as be immaterial going forward.
We increased our provision against discontinued as a result of our decision to exit the market.
possible claims arising from the sale of PPI by 57 million in the first half of the year.
With no further adjustments in the second half, we Target return on capital employed ended the year with a net provision of 75 million.
Our decision to 14.6% slow down the final stages of migration also impacted profit by 13.3% 13.3% 12.9% around 40 million which will now begin to reverse.
Bad debts reduced by 5.2% in the year due to the application of our robust credit policy.
The Banks overall capital position improved, from an already good position.
Liquidity has also improved, with the retail bond issues giving us greater diversity 10 11 11 12 14 15 in the Banks funding position.
TARGET Tesco Bank trading profit We held our two debt metrics, fixed charge cover and net indebtedness, broadly flat this year.
Both measures will of course 264m 250m be directly affected by the UK investment plan we have announced 221m for the coming year.
Our target for fixed charge cover is between 168m 4 and 4.5 times and, for net indebtedness, is 2.5 times.
On our fourth key metric, capital expenditure as a proportion of sales, we were exactly in the middle of our target range of 5 to 5.5%.
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 35 Financial review Cash Our financial strategy of capital discipline This financial strategy means an increasingly cash generative and restraint supports a more sustainable outlook for Tesco in the next few years, with an overall reduction level of growth, which focuses on getting in Group capital expenditure, a return to growth in the cash contribution from the UK business, the international businesses more out of the businesses we currently have, making an increasingly positive contribution and a return to benefits from less capital-intensive forms strong cash inflows from working capital.
of investment and applies higher hurdle Cash inflows from decrease in retail working capital rates to new opportunities.
708m Looking forward 611m average annual cash inflow Capital expenditure from decrease in retail working capital 08 09 to 11 12 Our future plans include a reduced level of Group capital 357m expenditure: down to 3.3 billion in 2012 13 and, beyond that, 66m comfortably less than 5% of sales.
This reflects our movement into a new phase of growth for the Group, moving beyond the 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 diversification and expansion phase, to a phase where the In line with our financial strategy, working capital management will result in a return allocation of capital is based on the balance of growth and to strong cash inflows from working capital in the coming years.
returns that each investment can deliver.
Capital allocation Returns Our plans lead to further significant changes in our capital Capital restraint and improved cash generation both result in allocation for the Group.
Having already started some of this an improving ROCE.
Last year, we laid out our commitment to work in the UK, we are seeing higher returns on the new space improve ROCE to 14.6% by 2014 15.
Our investment plans in the that we have opened as a result.
UK make it likely that we will see a small reduction in 2012 13.
However, we described a number of significant opportunities Across the Group more of our capital is going into smaller, to increase returns last year, such as driving growth in the Bank, higher-returning store formats.
benefiting from regional scale in Central Europe and moving We will be investing less overall capital in our UK business, the US to profitability, as well as the structural benefit of maturing as we reduce the net new space opening programme by international businesses.
These opportunities still exist and 38% in the coming year, and focus store openings on smaller indeed our decision to divest the Japanese business has already stores, and on food more than non-food.
Within the overall UK spend, we will be spending much more Our financial strategy of capital discipline and restraint supports a on the refresh of our existing stores, increasing our investment more sustainable level of growth, which focuses on getting more to over 200million, in addition to an increase in our online out of the businesses we currently have, benefits from less capitalinvestment to around 150 million.
intensive forms of investment and applies higher hurdle rates to new opportunities.
This in turn drives higher returns and a higher Capital work-in-progress level of cash generation.
In supporting the plans that make Tesco The level of capital work-in-progress WIP on the UK balance better for customers, I believe this financial strategy is also better sheet now stands at around 2 billion.
Building out stores faster for shareholders.
than we acquire new sites will be a key contributor to UK space growth over the next few years, and will reduce this level of WIP.
The completion of mixed use schemes within the WIP balance will also play a significant role in bringing it down to a more appropriate level, although the construction phase on these schemes will add to the WIP balance in 2012 13, followed by a rapid reduction thereafter.
In some instances, we may also dispose of standalone sites that do not meet our new, more rigorous returns hurdles.
36 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Board of Directors Summary report of the Directors Group financials Financial calendar Summary Financial Statement IN THIS SECTION This section starts with our 38 Board of Directors Board of Directors and contains 40 Summary report of the Directors the Summary report of the 44 Independent auditors statement to the members Directors, the Independent of Tesco PLC 45 Group financials auditors statement to the 47 Financial calendar members of Tesco PLC, 48 Glossary the summary of our Group financials, our financial calendar and a glossary of KPI definitions.
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 37 Board of Directors 3.
Tim Mason 54 Our Board currently comprises the Chairman, Deputy Group CEO and CMO and CEO Fresh & Easy Sir Richard Broadbent, five Executive Directors Tim Mason has been President and Chief Executive Officer, Fresh & Easy Neighborhood Market since January 2006 and became Deputy and eight independent Non-executive Directors.
Group CEO and Chief Marketing Officer in March 2011.
He was Biographies for each of our Directors and our appointed to the Board on 16 February 1995.
Company Secretary are set out below.
Andrew Higginson 54 CEO Retail Services 1.
Sir Richard Broadbent 58 Andrew Higginson was appointed to the Board on 17 November 1997.
Non-executive Chairman Prior to his appointment as Chief Executive of Retail Services in July Sir Richard Broadbent joined the Board of Tesco PLC on 2 July 2011 2008 he was Group Finance and Strategy Director.
He was Chairman and was appointed Chairman on 30 November 2011.
He started his of Tesco Bank until 26 February 2012 and will retire from Tesco PLC career at HM Treasury before joining Schroders in 1986.
He is a Non-executive Director of BSkyB plc.
Richard was appointed Executive Chairman of HM Customs and Excise.
Laurie McIlwee 49 He also joined the Management Board of the UK Civil Service, serving Chief Financial Officer in both roles until 2003.
In 2003 he was appointed to the Board of Laurie McIlwee was appointed to the Board on 27 January 2009 as Chief Barclays plc, becoming Senior Independent Director in September Financial Officer.
He began his career with Tesco in 2000 as UK Finance 2004 and Deputy Chairman in 2010.
He stepped down from the Board Director and after four years, became Distribution Director.
Prior to of Barclays on 30 September 2011.
Sir Richard joined the Board of Tesco, Laurie worked for Pepsico in a variety of Finance and General Arriva plc in July 2004 and served as Chairman from November 2004 Management roles in the UK, USA, Central Europe and the Middle East.
He is also a trustee of the charity Relate.
Laurie is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants 2.
Philip Clarke 51 and a member of The Hundred Group of Finance Directors.
Lucy Neville-Rolfe, CMG 59 Philip Clarke was appointed to the Board on 16 November 1998.
Prior Executive Director Corporate and Legal Affairs to his appointment as CEO in March 2011 he was Asia, Europe & IT Lucy Neville-Rolfe was appointed to the Board on 14 December 2006.
Philip began his career with Tesco in store during 1974 and She joined Tesco in 1997 from the Cabinet Office.
She is Deputy Chair continued to work part-time through school and university.
After of the British Retail Consortium, a Non-executive Director of ITV plc and graduating with a degree in Economic History, he joined the Tesco of the Carbon Trust.
She is also a member of the London Business Schools Management Training Programme and then spent nine years in store Governing Body, the China Britain Business Council, the UK India management before holding a number of roles in commercial and Business Council and the Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change.
In 1994 he was appointed Stores Director and a year later 7.
Patrick Cescau 63 promoted to Regional Managing Director, before joining the Tesco PLC Senior Independent Director Board as Supply Chain Director and a year later adding Information Patrick Cescau was appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 February Technology to his responsibilities.
2009 and became Senior Independent Director in July 2010.
He was Group Chief Executive of Unilever from 2005 to 1 January 2009, and prior to this he was Chairman of Unilever plc and Vice Chairman of Unilever NV.
He has also been a Non-executive Director of Pearson plc Committee membership from 26 February 2012 since 2002, becoming Senior Independent Director in April 2010, and Nominations Committee IAG International Airlines Group since September 2010.
Patrick was Audit Committee appointed a Chevalier fide la Lgion dhonneur in 2005.
In June 2009, Remuneration Committee Patrick joined the Board of INSEAD.
CR Committee 10 7 4 8 13 11 2 38 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Board of Directors Summary report of the Directors Group financials Financial calendar 8.
Ken Hydon 67 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Gareth Bullock was appointed a Non-executive Director on 3 July Ken Hydon was appointed a Non-executive Director on 23 February 2010 and will subject to approval by the FSA be appointed to the 2004 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He retired from the Board of Tesco Bank as a Non-executive Director.
He was Group position of Finance Director of Vodafone Group Plc in 2005.
He is also Executive Director of Standard Chartered PLC until his retirement in a Non-executive Director of Reckitt Benckiser plc and Pearson plc, and April 2010.
He was also responsible for the Groups risk and special was a Non-executive Director at The Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation asset management function.
He is Senior Independent Director Trust from 2005 until 2012. and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Spirax-Sarco 13.
Stuart Chambers 55 Deanna Oppenheimer was appointed a Non-executive Director Non-executive Director on 1 March 2012 and will subject to approval by the FSA be appointed Stuart Chambers was appointed a Non-executive Director on to the Board of Tesco Bank as a Non-executive Director.
Deanna held 3 July 2010 and will subject to approval by the FSA be appointed various senior roles between 2005 and 2011 at Barclays, initially as to the Board of Tesco Bank as a Non-executive Director.
He was Chief Executive of UK Retail and Business Banking, Vice Chair of Group Chief Executive of NSG Group from 2008 to 2009.
Prior Global Retail Banking and also as Chief Executive of Europe Retail to NSGs acquisition of Pilkington plc in 2006, Stuart was Group and Business Banking.
Prior to Barclays, she was Marketing Director Chief Executive of Pilkington plc.
Previously he held a number of and later President of Consumer Banking of Washington Mutual.
senior roles at Pilkington plc and the Mars Corporation.
He is a She has also served as a Non-executive Director of Catellus and Non-executive Director of Smiths Group PLC, where he is Chairman Plum Creek Timber.
of the Remuneration Committee, and of Manchester Airport Group 14.
Stuart was appointed Non-executive Director of Rexam PLC Non-executive Director on 1 February 2012 and Non-executive Chairman effective from Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker was appointed a Non-executive 22 February 2012.
She was a Director General at the Ministry 10.
Karen Cook 58 of Transport in the Netherlands from 2001 to 2007 and has held senior Non-executive Director positions at Quest International, McKinsey & Co and Shell.
Jacqueline Karen Cook was appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 October is a Non-executive Director of Vivendi and was appointed a Chevalier 2004.
She is a Managing Director of Goldman Sachs International fide la Lgion dhonneur in 2006. and President of Goldman Sachs, Europe.
Jonathan Lloyd 45 of the firms European Management Committee and Partnership Company Secretary Committee.
Jonathan Lloyd was appointed Company Secretary to the Board 11.
He joined Tesco as Deputy Company Secretary Non-executive Director and Corporate Secretariat Director in April 2005 from Freshfields Ken Hanna was appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 April 2009.
Jonathan is also Company Secretary of He is Chairman of Inchcape PLC and a Non-executive Director of Tesco Bank.
He was previously Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury plc until March 2009 and prior to that an Operating Partner of Compass Partners and CFO and then CEO of Dalgety PLC.
He has also been Ages as at 25 February 2012.
CFO of United Distillers and Avis Europe plc.
1 5 14 9 12 3 6 15 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 39 Summary report of the Directors A governance framework requires appropriate processes to Principal activity and business review support it, which achieve a balance between prompting thoughtful The principal activity of the Group is retailing and associated judgement when required and not stifling commercial behaviour activities in the UK, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, through delay, risk aversion or rigidity.
The new governance the Republic of Ireland, India, Malaysia, Poland, Slovakia, framework has given us the opportunity also to review the South Korea, Thailand, Turkey and the US.
The Group also processes which support and underlie it and we are introducing provides retail banking and insurance services through its a number of improvements in 2012 13. subsidiary, Tesco Bank.
The Group is currently in the process of disposing of its Japan operations.
The summary of the Governance also requires the active and committed engagement Group financials is on pages 45 and 46. of Board and management.
The development of the Board, to ensure that its skills, balance and experience are optimum, is a Dividends continuous process.
The Executive Committee and its supporting The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of governance framework and processes have also been developed 10.13p per ordinary share, to be paid on 6 July 2012 to members during the year by the Chief Executive, Philip Clarke.
on the Register at the close of business on 27 April 2012.
Together with the interim dividend of 4.63p per ordinary share paid in We believe that these changes will enhance the way that the Group December 2011, the full year dividend will be 14.76p compared operates.
Our aim is to ensure that the Group continues to benefit with 14.46p for the previous year, an increase of 2.1%.
from structures and processes which support effective strategic debate and questioning: appropriate monitoring of performance: Directors the capacity to formulate the right questions: and the strength to Details of current members of the Board are shown on pages 38 and 39.
Sir Richard Broadbent joined the Board on 2 July 2011 and hold difficult questions on behalf of shareholders.
Deanna Oppenheimer The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code sets out the main joined the Board on 1 March 2012.
Sir Terry Leahy and Sir David principles and specific provisions on how companies should be Reid retired from the Board on 2 March 2011 and 30 November directed and controlled to follow good governance practice.
David Potts and Richard Brasher stepped down rules of the Financial Services Authority FSA require companies from the Board on 7 December 2011 and 15 March 2012 respectively.
listed in the UK to disclose, in relation to the Code, how they have Corporate governance applied those principles and whether they have complied with the Our approach to governance begins with the recognition that it provisions throughout the financial year.
Where the provisions have is not a set of rules but the framework supporting the core values not been complied with, companies must provide an explanation which define what is and what is not acceptable.
It is an expression for this.
of the way we want to conduct ourselves which informs actions The Board considers that Tesco PLC complied in all material and decisions whether or not there is a specific rule for the respects with the Code for the whole of the year ended 25 situation, and which supports the culture and behaviours that February 2012, please refer to page 51 of the Annual Report 2012. we wish to foster.
Further information on the Code can be found at www.
We are introducing a number of changes to our governance A full corporate governance statement is contained in the Annual framework from the beginning of 2012 13 to keep it aligned Report and Financial Statements 2012. with this vision and relevant to our growing business.
The main features of the new arrangements, are: a revised definition of matters reserved to the Board: an updated delineation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive: updated and expanded terms of reference for Board Committees: the elimination of a number of existing Committees and the creation of one new Committee to oversee Corporate Responsibility: and clarification of the role and structure of the independent Board of Tesco Bank and its relationship with the PLC Board.
40 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Board of Directors Summary report of the Directors Group financials Financial calendar As announced in January 2012, our plan for 2012 13 is to Remuneration substantially increase investment in the shopping trip particularly We introduced new remuneration arrangements for the 2011 12 in the UK.
Consequently we anticipate minimal Group trading financial year following detailed discussions with shareholders.
profit growth for the year.
The objective is that this investment in The new arrangements provide simpler, more strategically aligned customer experience will strengthen our underlying business and incentives that are consistent with our shareholders expectations.
We will also reduce levels We simplified pay by reducing the number of incentive plans of capital expenditure as we modify our approach to UK expansion.
in which Executives participate to an annual bonus and a In this context, the Remuneration Committee has set performance performance share plan and reducing the number of performance targets for 2012 13 awards that remain motivational for measures.
Executives are now incentivised to achieve underlying management while still ensuring that significant rewards can only profit growth and strategic objectives over an annual period and be earned if there has been exceptional value delivered for to deliver sustained earnings and return on capital performance shareholders.
No bonus will be paid to executives unless performance in the long term.
is greater than budget, representing year-on-year growth in profit.
For the performance share plan we have repositioned our earnings We have also returned to a collegiate remuneration approach targets for initial vesting but earnings growth required for maximum with all Executives participating in the same plans and being vesting and our ROCE goals remain the same.
paid in relation to delivery of the same performance.
This philosophy applies throughout the organisation at Group as We are not proposing any other changes to Executive Director well as business and country level, with over 5,000 of our senior remuneration arrangements in 2012 13.
However, we will continue managers globally participating in reward arrangements linked to monitor our approach to pay against the backdrop of evolving to local business performance but consistent in structure with regulation and the wider climate on executive pay, to ensure that those of the Executive Directors.
remuneration remains simple, aligned with our strategy and fair At the heart of Tescos remuneration arrangements is a performance to Executives and shareholders.
For many years the business has delivered strong In carrying out its duties, the Remuneration Committee gives full underlying profit growth and improved returns for shareholders.
The Committee was constituted and Underlying profit between 2007 and 2011 improved 50% and operated throughout the period in accordance with the principles despite a period of increased investment, return on capital has outlined in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority shown an improving trend.
Remuneration paid during this period derived from the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A summary of Directors emoluments and interests is set out on Although sales and profits increased in 2011 12 over the previous pages 42 and 43.
Further details can be found in the full Directors year to a record level for the Group, the threshold profitability Remuneration Report in the Annual Report and Financial for the annual bonus representing 70% of the annual bonus Statements 2012. opportunity was not achieved and therefore no bonus will be paid in respect of the financial part of the bonus.
A number of the strategic targets were delivered and a payout of 13.54% of the maximum was approved in respect of this performance.
The overall payout is significantly lower than for 2010 11.
Half the bonus will be paid in cash and half will be deferred into shares for a further three years.
The CEO has, however, elected to not take any bonus for 2011 12.
Our long-term rewards are assessed based on earnings and return on capital employed delivered over a three year period.
Despite the challenges in 2011 12, the three year performance shows progress with underlying diluted earnings per share growth of 29% and reported ROCE performance improving by 50 basis points.
The Remuneration Committee therefore determined that 46.5% of the Performance Share award and 100% of the share options granted in 2009 would vest, reflecting this progress made over the longer term.
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 41 Summary report of the Directors Directors Emoluments Fixed emoluments Performance related emoluments Short-term Short-term Total Total 2 Salary Benefits cash deferred shares 2011 12 2010 11 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Richard Brasher 845 63 115 115 1,138 2,262 Philip Clarke 1,093 62 1,155 2,260 Andrew Higginson 845 74 115 115 1,149 2,287 Tim Mason 845 559 115 115 1,634 3,094 Laurie McIlwee 845 62 115 115 1,137 2,206 Lucy Neville-Rolfe 640 81 87 87 895 1,756 1 David Potts 584 32 86 86 788 2,308 Non-executive Directors 1 Sir Richard Broadbent 266 15 281 Gareth Bullock 82 82 52 Patrick Cescau 120 120 109 Stuart Chambers 100 100 64 Karen Cook 82 82 80 Ken Hanna 94 94 92 Ken Hydon 100 100 98 1 Sir David Reid 501 52 553 693 Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 82 82 76 Total 7,124 1,000 633 633 9,390 17,437 Appointments and retirements 1 Sir Richard Broadbent was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 2 July 2011 and became Chairman on 30 November 2011.
The figures in this table are from 2 July 2011.
Sir David Reid retired on 30 November 2011.
The figures in this table include all remuneration paid or earned in the period up to 30 November.
Sir Terry Leahy retired on 2 March 2011 after 14 years as CEO.
He was paid 80,531 in the 2011 12 year including accrued holiday pay.
He did not receive any payments or benefits outside of his normal contractual arrangements.
David Potts stepped down from the Board on 7 December 2011 but will remain employed by the Company until 30 June 2012.
The figures in this table include all remuneration paid or earned in the period up to 7 December 2011.
In the period between 7 December 2011 and 25 February 2012 he was paid 261,000 and received benefits with a value of 9,000.
Mr Potts also received a bonus of 58,000 in respect of the period between December 2011 and February 2012 in line with other directors.
He did not receive any payments outside of his normal contractual arrangements.
Benefits 2 Benefits are made up of car benefits, chauffeurs, disability and health insurance, staff discount, membership at gyms and leisure clubs and Free Shares awarded under the all employee Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Under the SIP, shares in the Company are allocated up to HMRC approved limits currently 3,000 p. a. and the amount allocated is determined by the Board.
The majority of UK based employees are eligible to participate in the SIP.
Tim Masons benefits comprise the benefits above and a net expatriate allowance of 282,000 for the year, the gross value of which is 555,000.
42 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Board of Directors Summary report of the Directors Group financials Financial calendar Disclosable interests of the Directors, including family interests 25 February 2012 or at date of 26 February 2011 retirement resignation if earlier or on appointment if later Options Options to acquire to acquire Ordinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary 1 2 1 2 shares shares shares shares Executive Directors Richard Brasher 1,258,585 3,501,665 1,220,793 2,906,992 Philip Clarke 1,832,007 4,352,977 1,824,638 3,491,697 Andrew Higginson 707,081 4,076,589 1,349,712 3,491,697 Tim Mason 1,975,704 1,545,587 3,876,520 1,545,829 Laurie McIlwee 75,506 2,144,448 222,301 1,483,050 Lucy Neville-Rolfe 458,036 2,516,326 452,886 2,067,219 David Potts 1,708,622 3,005,260 1,851,253 2,927,209 Non-executive Directors Sir Richard Broadbent 53,996 23,847 Gareth Bullock Patrick Cescau 18,340 Stuart Chambers 5,500 5,500 Karen Cook Ken Hanna 25,000 Ken Hydon 60,093 30,093 Sir David Reid 194,554 194,337 Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 16,472 Total 8,389,496 21,142,852 11,051,880 17,913,693 Ordinary Shares 1 Ordinary shares shown in this table include conditional shares held by Laurie McIlwee and shares held under a promise by Tim Mason under the Performance Share Plan which are subject to future performance conditions, shares held by Tim Mason under the Executive Incentive Plan which are subject to a holding period, shares held by Laurie Mcllwee under the Long-Term Incentive Plan which are subject to a holding period and shares held under the all-employee Share Incentive Plan which are subject to a holding period.
Between 25 February 2012 and 1 May 2012, 445 shares were purchased by Executive Directors as part of the Buy As You Earn scheme.
Buy As You Earn is an HMRC approved share purchase scheme under which employees invest up to a limit of 110 on a four-weekly basis to buy shares in Tesco PLC at the market value.
In addition, Stuart Chambers purchased 19,500 ordinary shares on 24 April 2012 at a price of 321.35 pence per share.
There have been no other changes in Directors interests in Tesco PLC shares at the date of the publication of this report.
Options over Shares 2 Options to acquire ordinary shares shown in this table comprise options held under the Executive Share Option schemes and Discretionary Share Option Plan, Save As You Earn scheme and nil cost options held under the Performance Share Plan and Executive Incentive Plan.
"Retired Directors I h J[hho B[W o h[j h[Z ed CWhY &''$ 7j j i ZWj[ [ [bZ -""&- ""."
"ehZ dWho i Wh[i WdZ efj edi el[h "" "", i Wh[i$ :Wl Z Fejji ij[ff[Z Zemd hec j [ 8eWhZ ed - :[Y[cX[h &'' Xkj m bb h[cW d [cfbeo[Z Xo j [ 9ecfWdo kdj b & @kd[ &' $ J [ ]kh[i eh :Wl Z Fejji d j i jWXb[ are at 7 December 2011."
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 43 Independent auditors statement to the members of Tesco PLC We have examined the summary financial We also read the other information Opinion statement which comprises the summary contained in the summarised Annual In our opinion the summary financial Group income statement, summary Group Review and consider the implications statement is consistent with the full annual balance sheet, summary Group cash for our statement if we become aware financial statements, the Report of the flow statement, Summary report of the of any apparent misstatements or material Directors and the Directors Remuneration Directors and Summary report of the inconsistencies with the summary financial Report of Tesco PLC for the 52 weeks Directors on remunerations set out on statement.
The other information comprises ended 25 February 2012 and complies pages 40 to 46. only the Chairmans statement, the Chief with the applicable requirements of Executives review and the other items section 428 of the Companies Act 2006, Respective responsibilities of directors listed on the contents page.
and the regulations made thereunder.
and auditors The directors are responsible for This statement, including the opinion,  LLP preparing the summarised Annual has been prepared for and only for the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Review and Summary Financial Statement companys members as a body in Auditors in accordance with applicable United accordance with section 428 of the London Kingdom law.
Companies Act 2006 and for no other 4 May 2012 purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, Our responsibility is to report to you Notes: accept or assume responsibility for any our opinion on the consistency of the a The maintenance and integrity of Tesco other purpose or to any other person summary financial statement within the PLC web site is the responsibility of the to whom this statement is shown or summarised Annual Review with the directors: the work carried out by the into whose hands it may come save full annual financial statements, the auditors does not involve consideration where expressly agreed by our prior Report of the Directors and the Directors of these matters and, accordingly, the consent in writing.
Remuneration Report and its compliance auditors accept no responsibility for any with the relevant requirements of section We conducted our work in accordance changes that may have occurred to the 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by the full annual financial statements or the regulations made thereunder.
Our reports summary financial statement since they on the companys full annual financial were initially presented on the web site.
statements describe the basis of our audit b Legislation in the United Kingdom opinions on those financial statements, governing the preparation and the Report of the Directors and the dissemination of financial statements Directors Remuneration Report.
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
44 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Board of Directors Summary report of the Directors Group financials Financial calendar Group financials Summary Group income statement 52 weeks 52 weeks 2012 2011 Year ended 25 February 2012 m m Continuing operations Revenue 64,539 60,455 Cost of sales 59,278 55,330 Gross profit 5,261 5,125 Administrative expenses 1,652 1,640 Profits losses arising on property-related items 376 432 Operating profit 3,985 3,917 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates 91 57 Finance income 176 150 Finance costs 417 483 Profit before tax 3,835 3,641 Taxation 879 864 Profit for the year from continuing operations 2,956 2,777 Discontinued operations Loss for the year from discontinued operations 142 106 Profit for the year 2,814 2,671 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 2,806 2,655 Non-controlling interests 8 16 2,814 2,671 Earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations Basic 34.98p 33.10p Diluted 34.88p 32.94p Earnings per share from continuing operations Basic 36.75p 34.43p Diluted 36.64p 34.25p 52 weeks 52 weeks 2012 2011 Non-GAAP measure: underlying profit before tax m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 3,835 3,641 Adjustments for: IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements 44 19 IAS 19 Employee Benefits non-cash Group Income Statement charge for pensions 17 113 IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods 38 48 IFRS 3 Business Combinations intangible asset amortisation charges and costs arising from acquisitions 22 42 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes fair value of awards 17 8 Restructuring costs and other one-off costs 30 20 Underlying profit before tax from continuing operations 3,915 3,853 See Note 1 Accounting policies of the Group financial statements in the Annual Report and Financial Statements for details of reclassifications.
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 45 Group financials 25 February 26 February Summary Group balance sheet 2012 2011 m m Non-current assets 37,918 35,167 Current assets including assets of the disposal group and non-current assets held for sale 12,863 12,039 Current liabilities including liabilities of the disposal group 19,249 17,731 Net current liabilities 6,386 5,692 Total assets less current liabilities 31,532 29,475 Non-current liabilities 13,731 12,852 Net assets 17,801 16,623 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 17,775 16,535 Non-controlling interests 26 88 Total equity 17,801 16,623 Summary Group cash flow statement 52 weeks 52 weeks 2012 2011 Year ended 25 February 2012 m m Cash generated from operations 5,688 5,613 Interest paid 531 614 Corporation tax paid 749 760 Net cash generated from operating activities 4,408 4,239 Net cash used in investing activities 3,183 1,873 Net cash used in financing activities 1,366 2,994 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 141 628 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 2,428 3,102 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 24 46 Cash and cash equivalents including cash held in disposal group at the end of the year 2,311 2,428 Cash held in disposal group 6 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 2,305 2,428 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 52 weeks 52 weeks 2012 2011 Year ended 25 February 2012 m m Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 141 628 Other movements in net debt 93 1,767 Increase decrease in net debt for the year 48 1,139 Opening net debt 6,790 7,929 Closing net debt 6,838 6,790 NB.
The reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt note is not a primary statement and does not form part of the cash flow statement but forms part of the notes to the Group financial statements in the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Dividend 2012 2011 pence share m pence share m Amounts recognised as distributions to owners in the financial year: Final dividend for the prior financial year 10.09 811 9.16 730 Interim dividend for the current financial year 4.63 369 4.37 351 14.72 1,180 13.53 1,081 Proposed final dividend for the current financial year 10.13 815 10.09 812 See Note 1 Accounting policies of the Group financial statements in the Annual Report and Financial Statements for details of reclassifications.
46 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Board of Directors Summary report of the Directors Group financials Financial calendar Financial calendar Financial year end 2011 12 25 February 2012 Final ex-dividend date 25 April 2012 Record date 27 April 2012 Q1 Interim Management Statement 11 June 2012 Annual General Meeting 29 June 2012 Final dividend payment date 6 July 2012 Half-year end 2012 13 25 August 2012 Interim Results October 2012 Q3 Interim Management Statement December 2012 Financial year ended 2012 13 23 February 2013 Please note that dates are provisional and subject to change.
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 47 Glossary Capital expenditure: the additions to property, plant and Return on capital employed: profit before interest and tax less equipment, investment property and intangible assets tax at the effective rate of tax divided by the calculated average excluding assets acquired under business combinations.
of opening and closing net assets plus net debt plus dividend creditor less net assets held for resale.
Total shareholder return: the notional return from a share, measured as the percentage change in the share price, plus the Constant tax rate: using the prior years effective tax rate.
dividends paid with the gross dividends reinvested in Tesco shares.
EBITDAR: operating profit before depreciation, amortisation, This is measured over a five-year period.
rent and movements in impairments of property, plant and Underlying diluted earnings per share: underlying profit less equipment, investment property and intangible assets.
tax at the effective tax rate and minority interest divided by the Fixed charge cover: the ratio of EBITDAR excluding Tesco Bank diluted weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
EBITDAR divided by financing costs net interest excluding Underlying profit before tax: underlying profit before tax IAS 32 and 39 impacts and pension finance costs plus operating excludes the impact of non-cash elements of IAS 17, 19, 32 and lease expenses.
39 principally the impact of annual uplifts in rents and rent-free periods, pension costs, and the marking to market of financial Gearing: net debt divided by total equity.
instruments : the amortisation charge on intangible assets arising Net indebtedness: the ratio of adjusted net debt net debt plus on acquisition and acquisition costs, and the non-cash impact of pension deficit and the present value of lease obligations divided IFRIC 13.
It also excludes restructuring and other one-off costs.
The Summary Financial Statement does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the Company or of the Group and of their policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration as would be provided by the Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Members can obtain online, free of charge, the Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012.
The Annual Reports and Financial Statements for future financial years will also be made available online, at www.
48 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 Designed and produced by CONRAN DESIGN GROUP This Report is printed on Revive 100 Pure White Silk paper and has been independently certified on behalf of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
