TRAVIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Notes to the Financial Statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 which could affect the Groups ability to meet managements forecast and 1.
General information projections and hence its ability to meet its banking covenants.
Overview The Directors believe that the Group has the flexibility to react to Travis Perkins plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom changing market conditions and is adequately placed to manage its under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic given on page 137.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal outlook and challenging macro economic conditions.
activities are set out in the Chief Executives review of the year, the A detailed consideration of going concern, risks and uncertainties is Deputy Chief Executives review of the year and the Finance Directors provided in the Finance Directors review of the year on pages 38 to 43. review of the year on pages 38 to 43.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement at the These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources operates.
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Basis of accounting financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the 2.
Significant accounting policies International Accounting Standards Board.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European The principal accounting policies adopted in preparing the financial Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 statements are set out below.
of the EU IAS Regulations.
Revenue recognition Basis of preparation Revenue is recognised when goods or services are received by the The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost basis, customer and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to them.
except that derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services Company and all entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and value together referred to as the Group from the date control commences added tax.
For the Parent Company, revenue comprises management until the date that control ceases.
Control is achieved where the Company charges receivable and dividend income received.
has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity to obtain benefits from its activities.
As such, the results Exceptional items of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the consolidated Exceptional items are those items of income and expenditure that income statement from the effective date of acquisition.
by reference to the Group are material in size or unusual in nature or In the current financial year, the Group has adopted the following, incidence, that in the judgement of the Directors, should be disclosed which did not have a material impact: separately on the face of the financial statements or in the notes in 6H & VbZcYbZcih EgZhZciVi dc d[ [ cVcX Va hiViZbZcih the case of a segment to ensure both that the reader has a proper At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following understanding of the Groups financial performance and that there is Standards and Interpretations, which have not yet been applied in these comparability of financial performance between periods.
financial statements, were in issue, but not yet effective: Items of income or expense that are considered by the Directors 6H &.
gZk hZY :beadnZZ WZcZ[ ih0 for designation as exceptional items include, but are not limited to, 6H ', gZk hZY HZeVgViZ : cVcX Va HiViZbZcih0 significant restructurings, onerous contracts, write-downs or impairments 6H '- gZk hZY ckZhibZcih c 6hhdX ViZh VcY ?d ci KZcijgZh '%&& 0 of current and non-current assets, the costs of acquiring and integrating 6H ' VbZcYZY D[[hZii c : cVcX Va 6hhZih VcY A VW a i Zh0 businesses, gains or losses on disposals of businesses and investments, :GH.
0 re-measurement gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of :GH &% 8dchda YViZY : cVcX Va HiViZbZcih0 derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge accounting is :GH && ?d ci 6ggVc ZbZcih0 not achieved or is not effective and pension scheme curtailment gains.
:GH &' 9 hXadhjgZ d[ ciZgZhih c Di]Zg :ci i Zh0 :GH & :V g KVajZ BZVhjgZbZci# Business combinations and goodwill The Directors anticipate that adoption of these Standards and All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the method.
The cost of an acquisition represents the cash value of the financial statements of the Group except as follows: consideration and or the fair value of the shares issued on the date the As the Group has always recognised actuarial gains and losses offer became unconditional.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities immediately, there will be no effect on the defined benefit obligation of all and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under defined benefit schemes and consequently no effect on the balance sheet IFRS 3 2008 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date disclosures.
IAS 19 revised requires interest cost and return on scheme except that: assets calculated under the previous version of IAS 19 to be replaced with 9Z[ZggZY iVm VhhZih dg a VW a i Zh VcY a VW a i Zh dg VhhZih gZaViZY id a net interest amount calculated by applying a discount rate to the net employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in defined liability or asset.
The impact of this revision on profit before tax in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits 2012 would be to lower profit before tax by approximately 12m.
respectively: Management is currently of the opinion that the Groups forecasts A VW a i Zh dg Zfj in chigjbZcih gZaViZY id i]Z gZeaVXZbZci Wn i]Z and projections, show that the Group should be able to operate within Group of an acquirees share-based payment awards are measured in its current facilities and comply with its banking covenants.
The Group accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: is, however, exposed to a number of significant risks and uncertainties, 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
