TRAVIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Notes to the Financial Statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 which could affect the Groups ability to meet managements forecast and 1.
General information projections and hence its ability to meet its banking covenants.
Overview The Directors believe that the Group has the flexibility to react to Travis Perkins plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom changing market conditions and is adequately placed to manage its under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic given on page 137.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal outlook and challenging macro economic conditions.
activities are set out in the Chief Executives review of the year, the A detailed consideration of going concern, risks and uncertainties is Deputy Chief Executives review of the year and the Finance Directors provided in the Finance Directors review of the year on pages 38 to 43. review of the year on pages 38 to 43.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement at the These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources operates.
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Basis of accounting financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the 2.
Significant accounting policies International Accounting Standards Board.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European The principal accounting policies adopted in preparing the financial Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 statements are set out below.
of the EU IAS Regulations.
Revenue recognition Basis of preparation Revenue is recognised when goods or services are received by the The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost basis, customer and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to them.
except that derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services Company and all entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and value together referred to as the Group from the date control commences added tax.
For the Parent Company, revenue comprises management until the date that control ceases.
Control is achieved where the Company charges receivable and dividend income received.
has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity to obtain benefits from its activities.
As such, the results Exceptional items of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the consolidated Exceptional items are those items of income and expenditure that income statement from the effective date of acquisition.
by reference to the Group are material in size or unusual in nature or In the current financial year, the Group has adopted the following, incidence, that in the judgement of the Directors, should be disclosed which did not have a material impact: separately on the face of the financial statements or in the notes in 6H & VbZcYbZcih EgZhZciVi dc d[ [ cVcX Va hiViZbZcih the case of a segment to ensure both that the reader has a proper At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following understanding of the Groups financial performance and that there is Standards and Interpretations, which have not yet been applied in these comparability of financial performance between periods.
financial statements, were in issue, but not yet effective: Items of income or expense that are considered by the Directors 6H &.
gZk hZY :beadnZZ WZcZ[ ih0 for designation as exceptional items include, but are not limited to, 6H ', gZk hZY HZeVgViZ : cVcX Va HiViZbZcih0 significant restructurings, onerous contracts, write-downs or impairments 6H '- gZk hZY ckZhibZcih c 6hhdX ViZh VcY ?d ci KZcijgZh '%&& 0 of current and non-current assets, the costs of acquiring and integrating 6H ' VbZcYZY D[[hZii c : cVcX Va 6hhZih VcY A VW a i Zh0 businesses, gains or losses on disposals of businesses and investments, :GH.
0 re-measurement gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of :GH &% 8dchda YViZY : cVcX Va HiViZbZcih0 derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge accounting is :GH && ?d ci 6ggVc ZbZcih0 not achieved or is not effective and pension scheme curtailment gains.
:GH &' 9 hXadhjgZ d[ ciZgZhih c Di]Zg :ci i Zh0 :GH & :V g KVajZ BZVhjgZbZci# Business combinations and goodwill The Directors anticipate that adoption of these Standards and All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the method.
The cost of an acquisition represents the cash value of the financial statements of the Group except as follows: consideration and or the fair value of the shares issued on the date the As the Group has always recognised actuarial gains and losses offer became unconditional.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities immediately, there will be no effect on the defined benefit obligation of all and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under defined benefit schemes and consequently no effect on the balance sheet IFRS 3 2008 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date disclosures.
IAS 19 revised requires interest cost and return on scheme except that: assets calculated under the previous version of IAS 19 to be replaced with 9Z[ZggZY iVm VhhZih dg a VW a i Zh VcY a VW a i Zh dg VhhZih gZaViZY id a net interest amount calculated by applying a discount rate to the net employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in defined liability or asset.
The impact of this revision on profit before tax in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits 2012 would be to lower profit before tax by approximately 12m.
respectively: Management is currently of the opinion that the Groups forecasts A VW a i Zh dg Zfj in chigjbZcih gZaViZY id i]Z gZeaVXZbZci Wn i]Z and projections, show that the Group should be able to operate within Group of an acquirees share-based payment awards are measured in its current facilities and comply with its banking covenants.
The Group accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: is, however, exposed to a number of significant risks and uncertainties, 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES T O THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6hhZih dg Y hedhVa gdjeh i]Vi VgZ XaVhh [ ZY Vh ]ZaY [dg hVaZ c Property, plant and equipment accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
"Assets are Standard depreciated to their estimated residual value on a straight-line basis over Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups their estimated useful lives as follows: previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair 7j aY c h "" % nZVgh dg [ adlZg!"
i]Z Zhi bViZY jhZ[ja a [Z d[ i]Z Wj aY c value at the acquisition date and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is or the life of the lease: recognised in the income statement.
"EaVci VcY Zfj ebZci "" id &% nZVgh0 Goodwill arising on acquisition represents the excess of the cost of :gZZ]daY aVcY h cdi YZegZX ViZY# acquisition over the share of the aggregate fair value of identifiable net Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected assets including intangible assets of a business or a subsidiary at useful lives on the same basis as owned assets, or where shorter, the term the date of acquisition."
All material intangible fixed assets obtained on of the relevant lease.
acquisition have been recognised separately in the financial statements.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset and allocated to cash determined as the difference between the sale proceeds net of expenses generating units or groups of cash generating units that are expected to and the carrying amount of the asset in the balance sheet and is benefit from the synergies of the combination, then at least annually, is recognised in the income statement.
Where appropriate, the attributable reviewed for impairment.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in revaluation reserve remaining in respect of properties revalued prior to the income statement and is not subsequently reversed, as such, goodwill the adoption of IFRS is transferred directly to accumulated profits.
is stated in the balance sheet at cost less any provisions for impairment in value.
Leases Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease Liabilities for contingent consideration are classified as fair value liability to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance through profit and loss.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated Investments in associates useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence, substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are but not control or joint control through participation in the financial classified as operating leases.
and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The results, assets, and Operating lease rental payments are recognised as an expense in the liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are Reverse lease premia and other incentives receivable for entering into a carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post acquisition lease agreement are recognised in the income statement on a straight line changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any basis over the life of the lease.
impairment in the value of individual investments.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill Intangible assets The carrying amounts of the Groups tangible and intangible assets Intangible assets identified as part of the assets of an acquired business are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured any indication of impairment.
If such an indication exists, the assets reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets are amortised to the recoverable amount is estimated and compared to its carrying value.
income statement on a straight-line basis over a maximum of 20 years Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from except where they are considered to have an indefinite useful life.
In the other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashlatter instance, they are reviewed annually for impairment.
generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
Where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount a provision for the impairment loss Investment properties is established with a charge being made to the income statement.
Investment properties, which are held to earn rental income or for capital For intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life the recoverable appreciation or for both, are stated at deemed cost less depreciation.
amount is estimated at each annual balance sheet date.
Properties are depreciated to their estimated residual value on a straightImpairment losses recognised in respect of a CGU are allocated first line basis over their estimated useful lives, up to a maximum of 50 years.
to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and Rental income from investment property is recognised in the income then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Assets held for sale Inventories Assets held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair Inventories, which consist of goods for resale, are stated at the lower of value less costs to sell.
Assets are held for sale if their carrying amount average weighted cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than continuing use.
that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price and the asset is available for sale in its present condition.
less the estimated costs of disposal.
90 TRAVIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Financial instruments Derivatives embedded in commercial contracts are treated as separate Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the those of the underlying contracts, with unrealised gains or losses being instrument.
reported in the income statement.
The fair value of hedged derivatives is classified as a non-current Trade receivables asset or non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge Trade receivables are measured at amortised cost, which is carrying relationship is more than 12 months, otherwise they are classified as amount less provision for irrecoverable amounts.
estimated irrecoverable amounts are made in the income statement when Foreign currency forward contracts not designated effective hedges the receivable is considered to be uncollectible.
are marked to market at the balance sheet date, with any gains or losses being taken through the income statement.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are treated as impaired when in the opinion of the Financial assets and financial liabilities Directors, the likelihood of full recovery is diminished by either events or Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: change of circumstance.
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, availablefor-sale AFS financial assets and loans and receivables.
The Cash and cash equivalents classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
an original maturity of three months or less.
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities and trade and other payables.
Bank and other borrowings The Group has defined the classes of financial assets to be other Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts, loan notes and other loans financial assets, cash and borrowings and derivative financial are recognised in the balance sheet at amortised cost.
associated with arranging a bank facility are recognised in the income statement over the life of the facility.
All other borrowing costs are Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL where incurred.
the financial asset or the financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as FVTPL.
Trade payables A financial asset or financial liability is classified as held for trading if it: Trade payables are measured at amortised cost.
Vh WZZc VXfj gZY eg cX eVaan [dg i]Z ejgedhZ d[ hZaa c dg d[ Y hedhVa in the near future: or Foreign currencies h V eVgi d[ Vc YZci [ ZY edgi[da d d[ [ cVcX Va chigjbZcih i]Vi i]Z Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term ruling on the date of the transaction.
profit-taking: or At the consolidated balance sheet date, unhedged monetary assets h V YZg kVi kZ i]Vi h cdi YZh cViZY VcY Z[[ZXi kZ Vh V ]ZY c and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate instrument.
of exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, translation are recognised in the income statement.
with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement unless it is an effective cash flow relationship.
The net gain or loss recognised Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting in the income statement incorporates any interest earned or paid on the The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to financial asset and financial liability respectively.
interest rate and foreign exchange risks arising from financing activities.
The Group does not enter into speculative financial instruments.
In Loans and receivables accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue Trade receivables and other receivables that have fixed or determinable derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair value and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost of derivative financial instruments is the estimated amount the Group using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income would receive or pay to terminate the derivative at the balance sheet date, is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term taking into account current interest and exchange rates and the current receivables, which applies to all amounts owed to the Group when the creditworthiness of the counterparties.
recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, that are designated and effective as hedges of the future variability of cash Other financial liabilities flows, are recognised in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured immediately in the income statement.
at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest of a hedged item, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in the effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost income statement.
of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains period.
The effective interest is the rate that exactly discounts estimated or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the income future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, statement as they arise.
or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
