Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the forty-ninth Annual General Meeting a. shar es as defined in section 540 of the Companies Act 2006 of Travis Perkins plc will be held at Northampton Rugby Football or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into Club, Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 5BG on shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 8,166,764: and Thursday 23 May 2013 at 12.00 noon.
b. equity securities as such phrase is to be interpr eted in accordance with section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 up to The Resolutions an aggregate nominal amount of 16,333,529 such amount Resolutions 1 to 15 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of shares resolutions.
Resolutions 16 to 18 inclusive will be proposed as allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into special resolutions.
shares in the Company granted under paragraph a of this 1.
To r eceive the Companys annual accounts for the financial year resolution 15 in connection with an offer by way of a rights ended 31 December 2012, together with the Directors report, the issue: Directors remuneration report and the Auditors report on those i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be accounts and on the auditable part of the Directors remuneration practicable to their existing holdings: and report.
to holders of other equity securities as defined in section 2.
To declar e a final dividend for the financial year ended 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006 as required by the rights 31 December 2012 of 17 pence per ordinary share, payable to of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 May otherwise consider necessary, 2013. and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions 3.
To appoint Tony Buff in as a director of the Company.
and make any arrangements which they consider necessary Biographical details of Tony Buffin appear on page 54. or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional 4.
To r e-appoint Chris Bunker as a non-executive director of the entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical Company.
Biographical details of Chris Bunker appear on page 55. problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any 5.
To r e-appoint John Coleman as a non-executive director of the other matter such authorities to apply until the end of the Company.
Biographical details of John Coleman appear on Companys next annual general meeting after this resolution page 55. is passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 6.
To r e-appoint Andrew Simon as a non-executive director of the 2014 but, in each case, so that the Company may make Company.
Biographical details of Andrew Simon appear on offers and enter into agreements before the authority expires page 55. which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights 7.
To r e-appoint Ruth Anderson as a non-executive director of the to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares to be Company.
Biographical details of Ruth Anderson appear on granted after the authority expires and the Directors may allot page 55. shares or grant such rights under any such offer or agreement 8.
To r e-appoint Geoff Cooper as a director of the Company.
as if the authority had not expired.
Biographical details of Geoff Cooper appear on page 54.
That, in substitution f or all existing powers and subject to the 9.
To r e-appoint John Carter as a director of the Company.
passing of resolution 15, the Directors be generally empowered Biographical details of John Carter appear on page 54. pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity 10.
To r e-appoint Robert Walker as a director of the Company.
securities as such phrase is to be interpreted in section 560 Biographical details of Robert Walker appear on page 54. of the Companies Act 2006 for cash pursuant to the authority 11.
To r e-appoint Deloitte LLP, Chartered Accountants, as auditor of granted by resolution 15 and or where the allotment constitutes the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company Companies Act 2006, in each case free of the restriction in section at which accounts are laid.
561 of the Companies Act 2006, such power to be limited: 12.
To authorise the Dir ectors to fix the remuneration of Deloitte LLP.
a. to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an off er 13.
That the Dir ectors Remuneration Report for the financial year of equity securities but in the case of an allotment pursuant to ended 31 December 2012 set out on pages 64 to 74 be approved.
the authority granted by paragraph b of resolution 15, such 14.
That the r eplacement Deferred Share Bonus Plan the Plan power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in produced in draft to this meeting and, for the purposes of connection with an offer by way of a rights issue only : identification, initialled by the Chairman, be approved and the i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be Directors be authorised to make such modifications to the Plan as practicable to their existing holdings: and they may consider appropriate.
to holders of other equity securities as defined in section 15.
That, in substitution f or all existing authorities, the Directors be 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006, as required by the rights generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers otherwise consider necessary and so that the Directors of the Company to allot: may impose any limits or restrictions and make any 132 TRAVIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate b. the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record for an ordinary share is its nominal value of 10 pence: dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the c. the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be laws of, any territory or any other matter: and paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the b. to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the authority average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share granted by paragraph a of resolution 15 and or an allotment as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List which constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue for the five business days immediately preceding the day on of section 560 3 of the Companies Act 2006 in each case which that ordinary share is purchased: otherwise than in the circumstances set out in paragraph a d. this authority expir es at the conclusion of the next Annual of this resolution 16 up to a nominal amount of 1,225,015 General Meeting of the Company or 30 June 2014, whichever is calculated, in the case of equity securities which are rights the earlier: and to subscribe for, or to convert securities into, ordinary shares e. the Company may mak e a contract to purchase ordinary as defined in section 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006 by shares under this authority before the expiry of such authority, reference to the aggregate nominal amount of relevant shares which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry which may be allotted pursuant to such rights, such power of such authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary to apply until the end of the Companys next annual general shares pursuant to any such contract.
meeting after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2014 : but so that the Company By order of the Board may make offers and enter into agreements before the power expires which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power expires and the Directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
That a general meeting other than an annual general meeting Andrew Pike may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
That the Company be and is her eby generally and Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7UG unconditionally authorised to make one or more market 3 April 2013 purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Registered in England No.
824821 Companies Act 2006 of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares, provided that: Directions to Northampton Rugby Football Club can be found on a. the maximum aggr egate number of ordinary shares authorised page 136. to be purchased is 24,500,293 representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 27 March 2013 : 133 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting 1.
A f orm of proxy is enclosed and instructions for its use are shown CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, on the form.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service member from subsequently attending, voting and speaking at the provider s should refer to their CREST sponsors or voting service Meeting in person, in which case any votes of the proxy will be provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their superseded.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST 2.
A member of the Company is entitled to appoint a pr oxy to to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at a Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with general meeting of the Company.
A member may appoint more Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain than one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the information required for such instructions, as described in the the rights attaching to different shares.
A proxy need not be a CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes member.
the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be 3.
To appoint mor e than one proxy, an additional proxy form s transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent ID RA10 may be obtained by contacting the Registrars or you may by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments 12.00 photocopy the form.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy noon on 21 May 2013.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied authorised to act as your proxy.
Please also indicate by ticking to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the the box provided if the proxy instruction is one of multiple Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any returned together in the same envelope.
change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
The right to appoint a pr oxy under note 1 and 2 above does CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf and voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & by another person and who have been nominated to receive Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in communication from the Company in accordance with section CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member shareholder who holds shares on their behalf to be appointed concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system exercise of voting rights.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service 5.
To be eff ective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and of such authority for the Annual General Meeting to be held at timings.
The CREST Manual can be reviewed at www.
Northampton Rugby Football Club, Franklins Gardens, Weedon com CREST.
Road, Northampton, NN5 5BQ at 12.00 noon on Thursday 23 May The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction 2013 and any adjournment s thereof must be returned to Capita in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. by 12.00 noon on 21 May 2013.
Alternatively you may submit In each case the proxy appointments must be received by the your proxy form online by accessing the Shareholder portal at Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for www.
com, logging in and selecting the Proxy holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
If you have not previously registered for electronic communications, you will first be asked to register as a new user, 7.
Only those members enter ed on the register of members of for which you will require your investor code which can be found the Company as at 6.00 pm on 21 May 2013 shall be entitled on the enclosed proxy form, your share certificate or dividend tax to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of voucher, family name and post code if resident in the UK.
shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time shall be disregarded 6.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do by using meeting.
the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
134 TRAVIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 8.
Ref erence to the register means the issuer register of members and the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the the Operator register of members maintained in accordance with conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: or ii Regulation 20 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual 9.
The f ollowing documents will be available for inspection at the accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 Registered Office of the Company during usual business hours on of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excluded shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its from the date of this Notice to the date of the meeting and at expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Northampton Rugby Football Club from 12.00am on the day of Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on the meeting until the conclusion of the meeting.
a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must 8de Zh d[ XdcigVXih d[ hZgk XZ d[ Y gZXidgh VcY cdcZmZXji kZ forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the directors letters of appointment with the Company, or with any time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The of its subsidiary companies.
business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any I]Z gZ hiZg d[ Y gZXidgh ciZgZhih `Zei Wn i]Z 8dbeVcn# statement that the Company has been required under section 527 6 Xden d[ i]Z 8dbeVcnh 6gi XaZh d[ 6hhdX Vi dc# of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
6 hiViZbZci k c eVgi XjaVgh d[ Y gZXidgh gZaZkVci transactions.
Under section 338 and section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, 6 Xden d[ i]Z YgV[i gjaZh d[ i]Z gZeaVXZbZci 9Z[ZggZY H]VgZ members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections Bonus Plan.
Copies will also be available for inspection at the have the right to require the company i to give, to members of offices of Aon Hewitt, 10 Devonshire Square, London, EC2M 4YP the company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to English public holidays excepted from the date of this notice be moved at the meeting and or ii to include in the business to until the conclusion of the meeting.
be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the business.
At 27 March 2013 being the latest pr acticable date before resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be publication of this notice the issued share capital of the included in the business unless a in the case of a resolution Company consisted of 245,002,932 ordinary shares, carrying one only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at inconsistency with any enactment or the companys constitution 27 March was 245,002,932. or otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or 11.
A person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom by the company not later than 10 April 2013, being the date six he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Meeting.
If a be included in the business only must be accompanied by a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does statement setting out the grounds for the request.
not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the 16.
Shar eholders and their proxies will have the opportunity to ask exercise of voting rights.
When invited by the Chairman, if you wish to ask a question, please wait for a Company representative 12.
The statement of the rights of members in r elation to the to bring you a microphone.
It would be helpful if you could appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 to 6 above does not apply state your name before you ask your question.
Questions may to a Nominated Person.
The rights described in these paragraphs not be answered at the Meeting if they are deemed not to be in can only be exercised by registered members of the Company.
the interests of the Company, or the good order of the Meeting, would interfere unduly with the preparation for the Meeting or 13.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or mor e involve the disclosure of confidential information, or if the answer corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of has already been given on a website.
The Chairman may also the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an nominate a Company representative to answer a specific question individual member.
after the Meeting or refer the response to the Companys website.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members 17.
A copy of this Notice, and other inf ormation required by section meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found in the Investor have the right to require the company to publish on a website Centre at www.
a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of 135 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
