Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the forty-ninth Annual General Meeting a. shar es as defined in section 540 of the Companies Act 2006 of Travis Perkins plc will be held at Northampton Rugby Football or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into Club, Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 5BG on shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 8,166,764: and Thursday 23 May 2013 at 12.00 noon.
b. equity securities as such phrase is to be interpr eted in accordance with section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 up to The Resolutions an aggregate nominal amount of 16,333,529 such amount Resolutions 1 to 15 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of shares resolutions.
Resolutions 16 to 18 inclusive will be proposed as allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into special resolutions.
shares in the Company granted under paragraph a of this 1.
To r eceive the Companys annual accounts for the financial year resolution 15 in connection with an offer by way of a rights ended 31 December 2012, together with the Directors report, the issue: Directors remuneration report and the Auditors report on those i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be accounts and on the auditable part of the Directors remuneration practicable to their existing holdings: and report.
to holders of other equity securities as defined in section 2.
To declar e a final dividend for the financial year ended 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006 as required by the rights 31 December 2012 of 17 pence per ordinary share, payable to of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 May otherwise consider necessary, 2013. and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions 3.
To appoint Tony Buff in as a director of the Company.
and make any arrangements which they consider necessary Biographical details of Tony Buffin appear on page 54. or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional 4.
To r e-appoint Chris Bunker as a non-executive director of the entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical Company.
Biographical details of Chris Bunker appear on page 55. problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any 5.
To r e-appoint John Coleman as a non-executive director of the other matter such authorities to apply until the end of the Company.
Biographical details of John Coleman appear on Companys next annual general meeting after this resolution page 55. is passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 6.
To r e-appoint Andrew Simon as a non-executive director of the 2014 but, in each case, so that the Company may make Company.
Biographical details of Andrew Simon appear on offers and enter into agreements before the authority expires page 55. which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights 7.
To r e-appoint Ruth Anderson as a non-executive director of the to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares to be Company.
Biographical details of Ruth Anderson appear on granted after the authority expires and the Directors may allot page 55. shares or grant such rights under any such offer or agreement 8.
To r e-appoint Geoff Cooper as a director of the Company.
as if the authority had not expired.
Biographical details of Geoff Cooper appear on page 54.
That, in substitution f or all existing powers and subject to the 9.
To r e-appoint John Carter as a director of the Company.
passing of resolution 15, the Directors be generally empowered Biographical details of John Carter appear on page 54. pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity 10.
To r e-appoint Robert Walker as a director of the Company.
securities as such phrase is to be interpreted in section 560 Biographical details of Robert Walker appear on page 54. of the Companies Act 2006 for cash pursuant to the authority 11.
To r e-appoint Deloitte LLP, Chartered Accountants, as auditor of granted by resolution 15 and or where the allotment constitutes the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company Companies Act 2006, in each case free of the restriction in section at which accounts are laid.
561 of the Companies Act 2006, such power to be limited: 12.
To authorise the Dir ectors to fix the remuneration of Deloitte LLP.
a. to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an off er 13.
That the Dir ectors Remuneration Report for the financial year of equity securities but in the case of an allotment pursuant to ended 31 December 2012 set out on pages 64 to 74 be approved.
the authority granted by paragraph b of resolution 15, such 14.
That the r eplacement Deferred Share Bonus Plan the Plan power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in produced in draft to this meeting and, for the purposes of connection with an offer by way of a rights issue only : identification, initialled by the Chairman, be approved and the i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be Directors be authorised to make such modifications to the Plan as practicable to their existing holdings: and they may consider appropriate.
to holders of other equity securities as defined in section 15.
That, in substitution f or all existing authorities, the Directors be 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006, as required by the rights generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers otherwise consider necessary and so that the Directors of the Company to allot: may impose any limits or restrictions and make any 132
