TRAVIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Other Shareholder Information Shareholder enquiries www.
co. uk Shareholder enquiries should be directed to the Company Secretary www.
co. uk at the Companys registered office: www.
co. uk Travis Perkins plc www.
co. uk Lodge Way House, Lodge Way, Harlestone Road, www.
co. uk Northampton NN5 7UG http: hire.
co. uk Email cosec@travisperkins.
co. uk or to the Companys registrars: http: hire.
co. uk hire Capita Registrars www.
com The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU www.
co. uk calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open 8.30am www.
co. uk Email ssd@capitaregistrars.
co. uk Should your query relate to a pensions matter please email www.
co. uk or if your query relates to a marketing www.
co. uk matter please email marketing@travisperkins.
co. uk Financial diary www.
co. uk Ex-dividend date 1 May 2013 www.
co. uk Annual General Meeting 23 May 2013 www.
co. uk Payment of final dividend 30 May 2013 www.
co. uk Announcement of 2013 interim results July 2013 www.
co. uk Announcement of 2013 annual results February 2014 www.
co. uk Annual general meeting catering arrangements www.
com investor relations site It has always been the Companys custom to provide a light luncheon www.
co. uk for shareholders following the AGM, and a buffet luncheon will be www.
co. uk available you need not notify the Company in advance if you would www.
co. uk Internet These sites allow credit account holders to order on-line through There are sites on the internet that carry a range of information Trademate, with the exception of the Wickes, Tile Giant and ToolStation about the Group and its principal brands, products and services at the sites which allow on-line ordering by secure card transaction.
following addresses: Most of the sites provide information about branch locations and www.
co. uk allow access to prices and the product range available.
co. uk also able to construct their own price quotation that includes any www.
co. uk special price arrangements that have been negotiated with the Group.
co. uk In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys www.
co. uk Articles of Association, the Company is allowed to use its website to www.
co. uk publish statutory documents and communications to shareholders, www.
co. uk such as the Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of the AGM.
co. uk You can therefore view or download a copy of the Annual Report and www.
co. uk Accounts and the Notice of the AGM by going to our website at www.
com see section called Investor Centre.
If you 137 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION received a hard copy of this report in the post then you will not have In the event of the Company becoming aware that an electronic consented to this method of publication.
Should you now wish to communication to you has not been successfully transmitted, consent to this method of publication, you should contact a further two attempts will be made.
If the transmission is still Capita Registrars, Freepost RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, SAS, unsuccessful, a hard copy of the relevant notification will be posted The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 9ZA.
Your registration to receive electronic communications and your By reducing the number of communications sent by post, it will not relevant contact address details will stand until such time as the only result in cost savings to the Company but also reduce the impact Company receives alternative instructions from you by e-mail or in that the unnecessary printing and distribution of reports has on the writing.
Please note that if you consent to website publication, 6.
The Company takes all reasonable precautions to ensure no you will continue to be notified each time that the Company places computer viruses are present in any electronic communication a statutory communication on the website.
This notification will it transmits, but the Company shall not be responsible for any be sent to you by post.
However, you may also choose to receive loss or damage arising from the opening or use of any e-mail or notifications by e-mail and we would encourage you to do so.
If you attachments sent by the Company or on its behalf.
The Company wish to receive these notifications by e-mail, you should register recommends that shareholders subject all messages to computer at www.
com, and follow the instructions see virus checking procedures.
Any electronic communication received Registrars On-Line Service below.
by or on behalf of the Company, including the lodgement of an Please telephone Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0300 within the electronic proxy form that is found to contain any computer virus UK, calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open will not be accepted.
The Company reserves the right, irrespective of your election, to you have any queries.
revert to sending hard copy documentation by post whenever it considers it necessary or desirable to do so.
Before consenting to receive documents and communications via Capita registrars the website, shareholders should ensure that they have a computer The Companys registrars, Capita Registrars Capita, provide a with internet access and the Adobe Acrobat reader facility.
The number of services that, as a shareholder, might be useful to you:- Adobe Acrobat reader software may be obtained via the website free of charge.
If you elect to receive notifications of the publication of the By logging onto www.
com and following the documents and communications on the website electronically, it prompts, shareholders can view and amend various details on their will be your responsibility to notify our registrars, Capita, of any account.
Please note that you will need to register to use this service subsequent change in your e-mail address or other contact details.
for which purpose you will require your unique investor code IVC, 3.
If you are not resident in the United Kingdom, it is your which can be found on your share certificate, proxy card or dividend responsibility to ensure that you may validly receive documents tax voucher.
and communications electronically either generally or in relation to any particular document or communication without the Dividend re-investment plan DRIP Company being required to comply with any governmental or This is a scheme which allows you to use your dividends to buy regulatory procedures or any similar formalities.
The Company further shares in Travis Perkins.
For any shareholders who wish to may deny electronic access to documents and communications re-invest dividend payments in the Company, a facility is provided by relating to certain corporate actions in respect of those Capita IRG Trustees Ltd in conjunction with Capita Registrars.
Under shareholders who it believes are resident in jurisdictions where it this facility, cash dividends are used to purchase additional shares.
is advised that to provide such access would or may be a breach of Shares are bought on the dividend payment date at the then current any legal or regulatory requirements.
Any cash left over which is insufficient to purchase 4.
The Companys obligation to provide shareholder documents a whole share will be carried forward and held without interest, in to you is satisfied when it transmits an electronic message.
The a Client Money bank account.
Any shareholder requiring further Company is not responsible for any failure in transmission for information should contact Capita on 0871 664 0381 Calls cost 10p reasons beyond its control any more than it is for postal failures.
per minute plus any network extras from within the UK : lines are 138 TRAVIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 deZc [gdb.
"#%% Vb id # % eb BdcYVn :g YVn# [ Cdc""J@ '%- Share dealing services 639 3399."
com or There are two share dealing services that you may wish to use to buy visit www.
Please note that this facility is only or sell shares in Travis Perkins.
available to shareholders with an address in the UK or EEA.
Capita Duplicate share register accounts Capita offers an on-line and telephone share dealing service which If you are receiving more than one copy of our report, it may be that is available by logging on to www.
com or telephoning your shares are registered in two or more accounts on our register of 0871 664 0346 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: members.
If that was not your intention you might consider merging a cZh VgZ deZc -#%%Vb id # %eb!
"BdcYVn :g YVn # :dg i]Z dc""a cZ them into one single entry."
Please contact Capita who will be pleased service, Capitas commission rates are 1% of the value of the deal to carry out your instructions.
minimum 20, maximum 75 and for the telephone service, Capitas commission rates are 1.50% of the value of the deal minimum 25, Overseas shareholders maximum 102.50.
Capita, in conjunction with Western Union, are able to provide you with a service that will convert your sterling dividends into your local Stocktrade currency at a competitive rate.
You can choose to receive payment Stocktrade offer a telephone share dealing service which is available directly into your bank account, or you can be sent a draft in your by telephoning 0845 6010 995 non-UK 44 131 240 0414 and local currency.
Further details are available from quoting reference Low cost 335.
Stocktrades commission will be Capita Registrars, 0.5%, to deals up to the value of 10,000 and 0.2% on the excess Freepost RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, SAS, The Registry, thereafter, subject to minimum of 17.50.
Please note that UK share 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 9ZA purchases will be subject to 0.5% stamp duty.
There will also be a Telephone UK: 0871 664 0385 PTM Panel for Takeovers and Mergers levy of 1 for single trades in Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras: lines are open to excess of 10,000.
When buying shares you will be required to pay for 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday - Friday or 44 208 639 3405 Non UK or your transaction at the time of the deal by debit card, and you should by logging on to www.
com ensure that you have sufficient cleared funds available in your debit card account to pay for the shares in full.
