Statement of Directors Responsibilities FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the corporate and financial information included on the Companys regulations.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are in other jurisdictions.
required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Directors responsibility statement by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements 1.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
the consolidation taken as a whole: and In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting 2..
The management report, which is incorporated into the Directors Standard 1 requires that directors: report, includes a fair review of the development and performance EgdeZgan hZaZXi VcY Veean VXXdjci c eda X Zh0 of the business and the position of the Company and the EgZhZci c[dgbVi dc!
c V bVccZg undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties information: that they face.
Egdk YZ VYY i dcVa Y hXadhjgZh l]Zc Xdbea VcXZ l i] i]Z specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to By order of the Board understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and BV`Z Vc VhhZhhbZci d[ i]Z 8dbeVcnh VW a in id Xdci cjZ Vh V going concern.
Geoff Cooper The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Chief Executive records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and John Carter hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of Deputy Chief Executive fraud and other irregularities.
