NOTES T O THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities Employee share incentive plans The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it transfers the financial employees long-term incentives, executive share options and Save as asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset You Earn.
These payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially by the use of the Black Scholes option-pricing model taking into account all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The cost transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the of equity-settled awards is recognised on a straight-line basis over the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a will eventually vest.
transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds Provisions received.
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the present legal or constructive obligation because of a past event, and it is Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of Taxation the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and the and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable Equity instruments and own shares profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because I]Z gdje ]Vh Veea ZY i]Z gZfj gZbZcih d[ :GH ' H]VgZ 7VhZY it excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has in other years and it further excludes items, which are never taxable or been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that were unvested at 1 January 2005. that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Equity instruments represent the ordinary share capital of the Group Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on and are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in incremental issue costs.
the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the Consideration paid by the Group for its own shares is deducted from computation of taxable profit.
This is accounted for using the balance total shareholders equity.
Where such shares vest to employees under sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for the terms of the Groups share incentive schemes or the Groups share all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised save schemes or are sold, any consideration received is included in to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available shareholders equity.
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises Dividends from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the period combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to 3.
Critical judgements and items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred key sources of estimation and uncertainty tax is also dealt with in equity.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Pensions and other post-employment benefits accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The preparation of financial For defined benefit schemes, operating profit is charged with the cost statements requires the Directors to make estimates and assumptions of providing pension benefits earned by employees in the period.
The about future events that affect the reported amounts of assets and expected return on pension scheme assets less the interest on pension liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Future events scheme liabilities is shown as finance income or as a finance cost within and their effects cannot be determined with certainty.
Therefore, the the income statement.
determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgement based Actuarial gains and losses arising in the period from the difference on various assumptions and other factors such as historical experience, between actual and expected returns on pension scheme assets, current and expected economic conditions.
The Directors frequently experience gains and losses on pension scheme liabilities and the effects re-evaluate these significant factors and make adjustments where facts of changes in demographics and financial assumptions are included in and circumstances dictate.
The Directors believe that the following the statement of comprehensive income.
accounting policies are critical due to the degree of estimation required Recoverable pension scheme surpluses and pension scheme deficits and or the potential material impact they may have on the Groups and the associated deferred tax balances are recognised in full in the financial position and performance.
period in which they occur and are included in the balance sheet.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are Income taxes recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
The Group is subject to the income tax laws of the United Kingdom.
These 92 TRAVIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by taxpayers consideration payable and included it in the balance sheet.
When establishing income tax provisions, the the Companys 2013 EBITDA change from that estimated, the final Directors make a number of judgements and interpretations about the consideration will be different, but in the opinion of the directors any application and interaction of these laws.
Changes in these tax laws or difference is unlikely to be material.
in their interpretation could affect the Groups effective tax rate and the results of operations in a given period.
Accordingly, potentially Pension assumptions significant tax benefits will not be recognised until there is sufficient The Group has chosen to adopt assumptions that the Directors believe certainty that they will be accepted by HMRC.
are generally in line with the median for comparable companies.
If the future return on equities is lower than anticipated, which from 2013, will Cash generating units be equal to the discount rate applied to the pension scheme liability, The Directors consider that individual assets do not generate cash or if the difference between actual inflation and the actual increase flows that are largely independent of those from other assets and in pensionable salaries is greater than that assumed, or if long term consequently that, for the purposes of impairment testing, each branch interest rates were lower than assumed, or if the average life expectancy in the Group is a cash generating unit.
Impairment testing of property of pensioners increases, then the pension deficit would be greater than plant and equipment is carried out at individual branch level.
Goodwill currently stated in the balance sheet.
and other intangibles impairment testing is carried out at brand level as described in note 13.
Property leases The Group is party to a number of leases on properties that are no longer Goodwill and intangible assets required for trading.
Whilst every effort is made to profitably sub-let In testing for impairment, the recoverable amount of goodwill and these properties, it is not always possible.
Where a lease is onerous to intangible assets is determined by reference to the value in use of the the Group, a provision is established for the difference between amounts CGU grouping to which they are attributed.
In addition the Directors contractually payable to the property owner and to local authorities and have made certain assumptions concerning discount rates and the amounts expected to be received from the tenant if any for the period future development of the business that are consistent with its five-year up until the point it is judged that the lease will no longer be onerous.
Whilst the Directors consider their assumptions to be realistic, Directors believe that their estimates, which are based upon the current should actual results, including those for market volume changes, be state of the UK property market, are appropriate.
However, it is possible different from expectations, for instance due to a worsening of the UK that it will take longer or in some cases less time to dispose of leases economy, then it is possible that the value of goodwill and intangible than they anticipate.
As a result, the provisions may be mis-stated, but in assets included in the balance sheet could become impaired.
the opinion of the Directors, this is unlikely to be material.
The pre-tax discount rate is derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital WACC calculated by the Groups advisors.
The Insurance provisions WACC is based upon the risk free rate for ten-year UK gilts, adjusted The Group has been substantially self-insured since 2001.
The nature for the UK market risk premium, which reflects the increased risk of of insurance claims is that they frequently take many years to fully investing in UK equities and the relative volatilities of the equity of the crystallise, therefore the Directors have to estimate the value of Group compared to the market as a whole.
In arriving at the discount provisions to hold in the balance sheet in respect of historical claims.
rate the Directors have applied an adjustment to reflect their view of the Under the guidance of the Groups insurance advisors, the value of relative risk of the Groups operations.
Further details concerning the incurred claims is estimated using the Generalised Cape Cod Method.
judgements made by the Directors in respect of goodwill and intangible The provision is determined by deducting the value of claims settled to assets and the impairment testing thereof, are given in note 13. date from the estimated level of claims incurred.
Whilst the Generalised Cape Cod Method is an insurance industry standard methodology, it Toolstation consideration relies on historical trends to determine the level of expected claims.
The final consideration for Toolstation will be determined by reference To the extent that the estimates are inaccurate the Group may be to a multiple of the EBITDA of the business in 2013.
At the balance underprovided, but in the opinion of the Directors, any under-provision sheet date, the Directors have estimated Toolstations 2013 EBITDA is unlikely to be material.
from which they have calculated an estimated creditor for the final 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
