DIRECT ORS REPOR T listed on the London Stock Exchange.
All the shares rank pari passu.
The Board considers that all of The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in the the resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the company and Companys Articles of Association.
Fully paid shares in the Company of its shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommends that are freely transferable.
There are no persons that hold securities shareholders vote in favour of all resolutions put before the Annual carrying special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
Details of the structure of the Companys share capital and changes in the share capital during the year are also included in note 20 to the Resolution 13: financial statements.
Directors remuneration report As at 31 December 2012 The Travis Perkins Employee Share In accordance with the section 439 of the Companies Act 2006, Ownership Trust owned 5,313,791 shares in the Company 2.17% this resolution seeks shareholders approval of the Directors of issued share capital for use in connection with the Companys Remuneration Report as set out on pages 64 to 74.
This vote is share schemes.
Any voting or other similar decisions relating to those advisory and the directors entitlement to receive remuneration is not shares would be taken by the trustees, who may take account of any conditional on it recommendation of the Company.
There are no restrictions on voting rights attaching to the Resolution 14: Companys ordinary shares.
The Company is not aware of any Replacement deferred share bonus plan amendments agreements between holders of securities that may result in This resolution seeks shareholder approval of the replacement restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan amending the existing Plan following the The rules governing the appointment and replacement of board review of executive remuneration referred to on page 65.
A description members and changes to the Articles of Association accord with of the Plan is set out in the Chairmans letter which has been sent to usual English company law provisions.
The powers of the Companys shareholders with the notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
In particular, the Board has the power to issue shares and to purchase its Resolution 15: own shares and is seeking renewal of these powers at the forthcoming Renewal of authority to allot shares Annual General Meeting in accordance with the restrictions and Paragraph a of this resolution would give the Directors the authority within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal There are a number of agreements to which the Company is to 8,166,764 representing 81,667,644 ordinary shares of 10 pence a party that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change each.
This amount represents approximately one-third of the issued of control following a takeover bid.
None of these agreements is ordinary share capital of the Company as at 27 March 2013, the latest considered significant in the context of the Company as a whole.
practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
There are no agreements providing for compensation for Directors In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers or employees on change of control.
As set out in the Directors the ABI, paragraph b of this resolution would give the Directors Remuneration Report on page 70, service contracts for executive authority to allot ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue directors do not specify any particular level of compensation in the in favour of ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate nominal event of termination following change of control of the Company.
As amount equal to 16,333,529 representing 163,335,288 ordinary noted above, the Company has agreed with each of the Directors that shares of 10p each, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares it shall provide a director with funds subject to certain restrictions issued under paragraph a of this resolution.
This amount before to meet expenditure incurred in defending any criminal or civil any reduction represents approximately two-thirds of the issued proceedings if such proceedings are instituted subsequent to any ordinary share capital of the Company as at 27 March 2013, the latest person acquiring control of the Company.
The authorities sought under paragraphs a and b of this resolution will expire at Annual general meeting the earlier of 30 June 2014 the last date by which the Company must The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at hold an annual general meeting in 2014 and the conclusion of the Northampton Rugby Football Club, Franklins Gardens, Weedon annual general meeting of the Company held in 2014.
If this authority Road, Northampton, NN5 5BG on Thursday 23 May 2013 at 12.00 is exercised, the Directors intend to follow ABI guidance issued from noon.
A buffet lunch will be available.
In addition to the resolutions time to time, including as to the re-election of directors.
It is now our to approve the receipt of the Companys annual accounts, the practice to propose all directors for annual re-election at each Annual declaration of a final dividend, the appointment and re-appointment General Meeting in accordance with the Code.
of the Companys directors, the re-appointment of the Companys The Directors have no present intention to exercise either of the auditor and to give the directors authority to fix the auditors authorities sought under this resolution, except, under paragraph a, to remuneration, the following items are to be proposed at the satisfy options under the Companys employee share option schemes.
78 TRAVIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Resolution 16: to shareholders for approval.
The approval will be effective until the Limited authority to allot shares for cash Companys Annual General Meeting in 2014, when it is expected that This resolution would give the Directors the authority to allot a similar resolution will be proposed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 ordinary shares or sell any ordinary shares which the Company in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear elects to hold in treasury for cash without first offering them to days notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Except as provided in the next paragraph, this authority would be limited to allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers Resolution 18: and offers to holders of other equity securities if required by the Authority to purchase own shares rights of those shares or as the board otherwise considers necessary, The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares of 10 or otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,225,015 pence each granted at last years Annual General Meeting will representing 12,250,147 ordinary shares.
This aggregate nominal expire on the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The amount represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share Directors wish to renew this authority and a special resolution, which capital of the Company as at 27 March 2013, the latest practicable is set out in full in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page date prior to publication of this Notice.
In respect of this aggregate 132, will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting nominal amount, the Directors confirm their intention to follow to give the Company the authority to purchase its own ordinary the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles shares in the market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling 3-year authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% maximum of 24,500,293 representing 10% of the issued ordinary should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
share capital of the Company as at 27 March 2013 and sets Allotments made under the authorisation in paragraph b of minimum and maximum prices.
This authority will expire no later resolution 15 would be limited to allotments by way of a rights than 30 June 2014. issue only subject to the right of the board to impose necessary The Directors consider that it is in the best interests of or appropriate limitations to deal with, for example, fractional the Company to have available this authorisation, in case of entitlements and regulatory matters.
circumstances when it would be appropriate to use it.
They would The authority will expire at the earlier of 30 June 2014 the last only use it after consideration of the effect on earnings per share and date by which the Company must hold an Annual General Meeting the longer-term benefit for the Company and shareholders generally.
in 2014 and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the The fact that such authorisation is being sought should not be taken Company held in 2014.
Any issue of shares for cash will, however, still to imply that shares would be purchased at any particular price be subject to the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority may either be held as treasury shares or cancelled by the Resolution 17: Company, depending on which course of action is considered by the Notice of meetings Directors to be in the best interests of shareholders at the time.
The Companies Act 2006 requires that the notice period for general As at 27 March 2013, there were options over 12,485,868 ordinary meetings of a company is 21 days unless certain requirements are shares in the capital of the Company, which represent 5.1% of the satisfied, including that shareholders approve a shorter notice period, Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding any treasury which cannot be less than 14 clear days.
At the Annual General shares.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares Meeting held in 2012, shareholders approved a notice period for were exercised in full, these options would represent 5.66% of the general meetings other than AGMs of not less than 14 clear days Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding any treasury effective until the AGM to be held in 2013.
This resolution is proposed shares.
As at 27 March 2013, the Company did not hold any treasury to allow the Company to continue to call general meetings other shares in the Company and no warrants over ordinary shares in the than AGMs on 14 clear days notice.
The Directors believe it is in the capital of the Company existed.
best interests of the shareholders of the Company to preserve the shorter notice period and accordingly are putting this resolution, By order of the Board, to be proposed as a special resolution to the meeting.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for general meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Examples of when it might be appropriate to call a Andrew Pike general meeting at 14 days notice include when emergency capital Company Secretary raising proposals or other price sensitive transactions are being put 3 April 2013 79 GOVERNANCE
