INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Tullow Oil plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which Act 2006 comprise the balance sheet, the accounting policies and the In our opinion: related notes 1 to 13.
The financial reporting framework that The part of the Directors remuneration report to be has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and audited has been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom the Companies Act 2006: and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The information given in the Directors report for the This report is made solely to the Companys members, financial year for which the financial statements are as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so statements.
that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Matters on which we are required to report by exception no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit if, in our opinion: work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities not been received from branches not visited by us: or statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation The Parent Company financial statements and the part of of the Parent Company financial statements and for being the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those by law are not made: or standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices We have not received all the information and explanations Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts We have reported separately on the Group financial statements and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended 31 December 2012. give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Carl D Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor all the financial and non-financial information in the annual London, UK report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent 12 February 2013 material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012: Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
168 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts
