DEVELOPMENT & OPERATIONS OVERVIEW SELECTIVE DEVELOPMENT AND HIGH QUALITY PRODUCTION Tullows growing operational capability is critical to maximising value from our assets and providing funding for our E&A activities.
It is also a key differentiator in the eyes of host governments and enhances our ability to compete successfully for new licences.
The expertise required to accomplish our exploration, appraisal and development projects and manage our production operations is diverse.
We have built up skills in areas such as logistics, the environment, safety, engineering and relationship management as well as many others.
We have recruited and developed numerous highly competent people from diverse backgrounds, both expatriate and national employees, who form multi-disciplinary teams that are focused on delivering value from our world-class operations.
We also recognise that this breadth of operational capacity is important, even before we secure an asset.
It is often a key differentiator in the eyes of host governments, thereby enhancing our opportunities to compete successfully for new licences.
Our ability and commitment to deliver to international standards in challenging environments, and our entrepreneurial approach, are creating competitive advantage for Tullow in our core areas of operation.
Offshore and onshore operating capability Our development and operational capability has evolved over the years to the point where we were able to take on the challenge of both developing the Jubilee deepwater field and building the necessary oil and gas support infrastructure Paul McDade Chief Operating Officer in Ghana.
To ensure that all the lessons and achievements are captured and implemented on future operations, Tullow has a comprehensive system of reviews led by the Development Whil e we have significant potential for & Operations Leadership Team and senior functional leaders.
production growth, the key consideration With Jubilee, for example, we have learnt a great deal from the productivity issues we encountered and have applied these for Tullow will continue to be which of lessons to Jubilee Phase 1A development.
The planned offshore these opportunities to develop and which exploration wells and development activities, including the TEN to monetise.
project in Ghana and Banda gas project in Mauritania, will allow us to continue to build upon our offshore and deepwater operating capability.
In Uganda, we have spent many years improving our ability to carry out remote exploration operations in a way that focuses not just on the technical aspects of the operations but also considers our impact on the environment and local communities.
We have worked diligently to transfer these best practices in remote operations to our most recent exploration campaign in Watch Pauls video interview online to Kenya and Ethiopia.
The significant exploration campaigns and find out more about Tullows leading developments planned in East Africa will allow us to continue production capability.
to develop and demonstrate our operating capability onshore.
com ARA2012 D&O overview 58 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts OPERATIONS REVIEW More information 6 Where we operate 35 Key Performance Indicators 2 74 Corporate responsibility A strong EHS focus and culture Going forward, we have significant potential for production The technical aspects of our development and operating growth across our portfolio from both our established production activities are clearly fundamental to what we do but there are operations in West Africa and from our new discoveries in East other areas that are equally important and get an equal focus.
Africa and the Atlantic Margins.
However, the key consideration EHS considerations are at the heart of what we do and are for Tullow over the coming years will continue to be which of an essential responsibility for all our managers and staff.
these opportunities to develop and which to monetise before A cornerstone of our licence to operate is our strong EHS the development phase.
reputation and our teams work hard to maintain and build upon this reputation.
This is exceptionally challenging given Group reserves and resources mmboe some of the extreme locations in which we work but we also see this as an opportunity for us to foster a strong EHS culture Oil 836.3 within the local contractor community, thereby helping to build national capacity.
Gas 366.5 Relationships are also critical to the safe and efficient delivery of developments and operations.
The most important relationships are with our host governments and with the communities in which we operate.
We consider that by focusing on building strong relationships, both locally and nationally, and having an agenda of shared prosperity, we can work successfully in these locations and manage these risks.
Active portfolio management West & North Africa 647.0 At the development and production stage of the oil life cycle we South & East Africa 441.6 seek to crystallise a return for Tullow and recycle cash across the business through farming down or divesting assets.
We also Europe, South America & Asia 114.2 take selected core assets through development to production and cash flow.
This ongoing review of either maintaining the asset through to development or early divestment allows us to manage our capital allocation and maximise the value of each individual asset.
Tullow is in the final stages of divesting our non-core Asian assets which will allow for the re-deployment of capital and people in our core areas.
Additionally we recently announced the intention to divest our Southern North Sea assets which, despite being a critical contributor to Tullows Commercialising reserves and resources mmboe cash flow and overall growth historically, are now no longer core to our light oil exploration-led growth strategy.
Commercial Reserves High-quality production Contingent Resources 604 604 We have always been consistent in stating that long-term Uganda Commercialised production targets are not a strategic driver for Tullow.
The 519 only production targets we have are short-term and are focused 815 841 on ensuring that our producing assets are being operated in a 220 575 220 cost-effective manner, which safely maximises production 373 680 efficiency and identifies opportunities to sustain or grow production.
By avoiding long-term production targets we ensure 388 300 294 298 that all options to maximise the value of our assets are available 09 10 11 12 to us, including dilution of equity or outright sale of an asset.
Through a combination of these options we will continue to focus on maintaining a stable base of high-quality, high-margin and long life production that delivers a strong operating cash flow for the Group.
