SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder enquiries Share dealing service All enquiries concerning shareholdings including notification A telephone share dealing service has been established for of change of address, loss of a share certificate or dividend shareholders with Computershare for the sale and purchase payments should be made to the Companys registrars, of Tullow Oil shares.
Shareholders who are interested in using Computershare Investor Services PLC or, for shareholders this service can obtain further details by calling the appropriate whose shares are held on the Ghana branch register, enquires telephone number below: should be made to Computershare Pan Africa Limited.
Contact UK shareholders: 0870 703 0084 details for both registrars are as follows: Irish shareholders: 00 353 1 447 5435 Computershare Investor Services PLC If you live outside the UK or Ireland and wish to trade you The Pavilions can do so through the Computershare Trading Account.
Bridgwater Road To find out more or to open an account, please visit Bristol www.
Telephone number UK shareholders: 0870 703 6242 Electronic communication Telephone number Irish shareholders: 00 353 1 247 5413 Shareholders have the option to receive shareholder Telephone number overseas shareholders: 00 44 870 703 6242 communications including annual reports and notices of Contact: www.
co. uk contactus meetings electronically.
Tullow actively supports Woodland Computershare Pan Africa Ghana Limited Trust, the UKs leading woodland conservation charity.
Box CT2215 Cantonments Computershare, together with Woodland Trust, has established 23 Eleventh Lane, Osu R. E. eTree, an environmental programme designed to promote Accra, Ghana electronic shareholder communications.
Under this programme, the Company makes a donation to eTree for every shareholder Telephone number Ghana shareholders: 00 233 302 770507 who registers for electronic communication.
To register for Contact: panafrica@computershare.
co. za this service, simply visit www.
com tullowoilplc with your shareholder number and email address to hand.
Once A range of shareholder frequently asked questions and practical registered, shareholders will be e-mailed when an annual help on transferring shares and updating details is available report or notice of meeting is available for viewing on the online in the Shareholder Services section located in the Tullow website.
Investors area of the Tullow website: www.
Shareholder security Computershare online enquiry service Shareholders are advised to be cautious about any unsolicited Computershare provides a range of services through its online financial advice: offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of portal, Investor Centre, which can be accessed free of charge free company reports.
More detailed information can be found at www.
Once registered, this service, at www.
uk and in the Shareholder accessible from anywhere in the world, enables shareholders Services section of the Investors area of the Tullow website: to check details of their shareholdings or dividends, download www.
forms to notify changes in personal details, and access other relevant information.
ShareGift If you have a small number of shares whose value makes it Payment of dividends uneconomical to sell you may wish to consider donating them Shareholders can have their dividends paid directly into a UK to ShareGift.
Any shares donated to ShareGift will be aggregated Sterling or Irish Euro bank account and have the tax voucher and sold when possible with the proceeds donated to a wide sent directly to their registered address.
You can register your range of UK charities.
The relevant share transfer form may account details in Investor Centre or, alternatively download be obtained from Computershare.
Further information about a dividend mandate form.
the scheme is available at www.
Overseas shareholders who wish to have their dividends paid Financial calendar in a local currency can use the Global Payments Service that 2012 Full-year results announced 13 February 2013 Computershare has established.
Details of the service can be Annual General Meeting 8 May 2013 accessed in the Shareholder Services section of the Investors Interim Management Statement 8 May 2013 area of the Tullow website: www.
2012 Final dividend payable 16 May 2013 Holders on the Ghanaian Branch Register may also receive 2013 Half-yearly results announced 31 July 2013 dividends directly into a bank account in Ghana.
Such payments 2013 Interim dividend payable October 2013 are only made in Ghanaian Cedis.
Interim Management Statement 8 November 2013 188 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts
