Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Independent auditors report to the members of African Barrick Gold plc We have audited the group financial statements of African Barrick Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Gold plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Act 2006 Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of In our opinion: comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year cashflow statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting for which the group financial statements are prepared is consistent framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law with the group financial statements.
and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Matters on which we are required to report by exception by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set in our opinion: out on page 75, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion are not made: or on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law we have not received all the information and explanations we and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those require for our audit.
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only the Directors statement, set out on page 72, in relation to for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 going concern: of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Other matter disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable We have reported separately on the parent company financial assurance that the financial statements are free from material statements of African Barrick Gold plc for the year ended misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an 31 December 2012 and on the information in the Directors assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become Jason Burkitt, aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we Senior Statutory Auditor consider the implications for our report.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Opinion on financial statements London In our opinion the group financial statements: 7 March 2013 give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at Notes: 31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for the year a The maintenance and integrity of the African Barrick Gold plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, then ended: accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
by the European Union: and b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 93
