Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms The following definitions and terms are used throughout this report.
Co-product a secondary metal or mineral product recovered in the Inaddition, specific terms and definitions relating to mineral reserves milling process such as copper and silver andresources can be found on page 88.
CREST the computerised settlement system operated by Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited to facilitate the transfer of title to ABG or the Company African Barrick Gold plc, a company incorporated under the Companies Act 2006 and registered in England and shares in uncertificated form Wales with registered number 7123187 Crushing breaking of ore from the size delivered from the mine into smaller and more uniform fragments to be then fed to ABG Group the Company and its subsidiary undertakings or the Group grinding mills or to a leach pad AGM annual general meeting CSR corporate social responsibility AMKL Aviva Mining Kenya Limited Cu copper Amortisation and has the meaning given to it on page 158 Cut-off grade the minimum metal grade at which material can other costs per beeconomically mined and processed used in the ouncesold calculation of ore reserves Development work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral Articles the articles of association of the Company deposit.
In an underground mine this includes shaft Assay a chemical test performed on a sample of sinking, crosscutting, drifting and raising.
In an open pit ores or minerals to determine the amount mine, development includes the removal of overburden of valuable metals contained Directors the directors of ABG for the reporting period, details of Au gold whom are set out on pages 56 and 57 of this report Average head grade average ore grade fed into the mill Disclosure and the disclosure and transparency rules made by the FSA Transparency Rules under Part VI of FSMA Average realised gold has the meaning given to it on page 157 price per ounce sold Dollar or US$ or $ United States dollars Barrick Barrick Gold Corporation, a company existing under the Dor dor bullion is an impure alloy of gold and silver and is laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada generally the final product of mining and processing: the dor bullion will be transported to be refined to high Barrick Group Barrick and its subsidiary undertakings purity metal Board the board of directors of ABG Drift a horizontal underground opening that follows along the length of a vein or rock formation as opposed to a crosscut Cash cost per has the meaning given to it on page 157 which crosses the rock formation ounce sold Drift-and-fill a method of underground mining used for flat-lying Cash cost per has the meaning given to it on page 158 mineralisation or where ground conditions are tonne milled lesscompetent China National Gold means China National Gold Group Corporation Drilling: core drilling with a hollow bit with a diamond cutting rim to or CNG produce a cylindrical core that is used for geological study and assays.
Used in mineral exploration CIL carbon in leach, a method of recovering gold and silver, in which a slurry of gold silver bearing ore, carbon and Drilling: in-fill any method of drilling intervals between existing holes, cyanide are mixed together.
The cyanide dissolves the used to provide greater geological detail and to help gold, which is subsequently absorbed by the activated establish reserve estimates carbon whose base is usually ground coconut shells Drilling: reverse drilling method that uses a rotating cutting bit within a CIM the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy circulation double-walled drill pipe and produces rock chips rather and Petroleum than core.
Air or water is circulated down to the bit between the inner and outer wall of the drill pipe.
The Code of Conduct ABGs Code of Business Conduct and Ethics chips are forced to the surface through the centre of the drill pipe and are collected, examined and assayed Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act 2006 of England and Wales, as amended EBITDA has the meaning given to it on page 158 Concentrate a fine, powdery product of the milling process containing EPO Environmental Protection Order a high percentage of valuable metal Executive Directors the executive directors of the Company, Contained ounces represents total ounces in a mineral reserve before Greg Hawkins and Kevin Jennings reduction to account for ounces not able to be recovered by the applicable metallurgical process Exploration prospecting, sampling, mapping, diamond drilling and other work involved in searching for ore Annual Report and Accounts 2012 155 Glossary of terms continued Financial Services the Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom Non-Executive the Non-Executive Directors of the Company being as at Authority or FSA Directors year end Derek Pannell, Andre Falzon, Stephen Galbraith, David Hodgson, Michael Kenyon, Ambassador Flotation a milling process in which valuable mineral particles Mwapachu, Rick McCreary and Kelvin Dushnisky areinduced to become attached to bubbles and float as otherssink Offer Period means the period of time during which an offer or a possible offer for a company may be made under the UK FSMA the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Takeover Code, commencing from the announcement as amended ofa possible offer and ending on the date of one of the following: i following the announcement of an offer, an Grade the amount of metal in each tonne of ore, expressed as acquisition is declared unconditional as to acceptances: troy ounces per tonne or grams per tonne for precious ii an announcement that all offers have been withdrawn metals and as a percentage for most other metals or have lapsed: or iii following certain other announcements having been made, such as an g t grams per metric tonne announcement that no offer will be made or discussions negotiations in connection with a potential offer have IAS International Accounting Standards been terminated IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards, Official List the Official List of the Financial as adopted for use in the European Union Services Authority IPO ABGs initial public offering on the Main Market of the Open pit a mine where the minerals are mined entirely from London Stock Exchange the surface ISO International Standards Organisation Operational cash has the meaning given to it on page 158 Koz thousand ounces flow per share KPIs key performance indicators Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company Kt thousand metric tonnes Ore rock, generally containing metallic or non-metallic LIBOR The British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate minerals, which can be mined and processed at a profit for the relevant currency and period displayed on the appropriate page of the Reuters screen Ore body a sufficiently large amount of ore that can be mined economically Listing Rules the rules relating to admission to the Official List made inaccordance with section 73A 2 of FSMA Over burden is the material that lies above the area of economic interest, such as soil and ancillary material, that is London Stock London Stock Exchange plc removed during surface mining Exchange or LSE Oxide ore mineralised rock in which some of the original minerals Majority Shareholder Barrick have been oxidised.
Oxidation tends to make the ore more amenable to cyanide solutions so that minute particles of MDA a mineral development agreement gold will be readily dissolved MDN MDN Inc. a company existing under the laws of the Oz troy ounce 31.1035g Province of Qubec PAF dump Potential Acid Forming waste rock dump Mill a plant in which ore is treated and metals are recovered or prepared for smelting: also a revolving drum used for the PGI Pangea Goldfields Inc. a Canadian subsidiary of ABG grinding of ores in preparation for treatment Pre-IPO the reorganisation of the companies comprising the ABG Moz million ounces Reorganisation Group into a separate corporate group prior to the IPO Mt million metric tonnes Reclamation the process by which lands disturbed as a result of mining activity are modified to support beneficial land use.
NAF dump Non Acid Forming waste rock dump Reclamation activity may include the removal of buildings, equipment, machinery and other physical NGOs non-governmental organisations remnants of mining, closure of tailings storage facilities, leach pads and other mine features, and contouring, NI 43-101 Canadian National Instrument 43-101 covering and re-vegetation of waste rock and other disturbed areas 156 www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Recovery rate a term used in process metallurgy to indicate the United States or US the United States of America, its territories and proportion of valuable material physically recovered in possessions, any state of the United States of America theprocessing of ore.
It is generally stated as a percentage andthe District of Columbia of the material recovered compared to the total material VA T value-added tax originally present VBIAs village benefit implementation agreements Refining the final stage of metal production in which impurities are removed from the molten metal VBAs village benefit agreements Relationship the relationship agreement between Barrick and ABG Voluntary Principles means the Voluntary Principles on Security Agreement and Human Rights ROM run-of-mine, a term used loosely to describe ore of average grade Non-IFRS measures ABG has identified certain measures in this report that are not measures Services Agreement the services agreement between Barrick and ABG defined under IFRS.
Non-IFRS financial measures disclosed by management Senior Leadership the individuals listed on page 58 are provided as additional information to investors in order to provide Team or Senior them with an alternative method for assessing ABGs financial condition Management and operating results.
These measures are not in accordance with, or asubstitute for, IFRS, and may be different from or inconsistent with Shaft a vertical or inclined excavation in rock for the purpose of non-IFRS financial measures used by other companies.
These measures providing access to an ore body.
Usually equipped with a hoist at the top, which lowers and raises a conveyance for are explained further below.
handling workers and materials Average realised gold price per ounce sold is a non-IFRS financial Shareholders holders of Ordinary Shares measure which excludes from gold revenue: Spot or the purchase price of a commodity at the current price, r Unrealised gains and losses on non-hedge derivative contracts: spot price normally this is at a discount to the long-term contract price r Unrealised mark to market gains and losses on provisional pricing Stripping removal of overburden or waste rock overlying an ore fromcopper and gold sales contracts: and body in preparation for mining by open pit methods r Export duties.
Tailings the material that remains after all economically and Cash cost per ounce sold is a non-IFRS financial measure.
Cash costs technically recoverable precious metals have been include all costs absorbed into inventory, as well as royalties, by-product removed from the ore during processing credits and production taxes, and exclude capitalised production stripping Tailings storage a natural or man-made confined area suitable for costs, inventory purchase accounting adjustments, unrealised gains losses facility depositing the material that remains after the treatment from non-hedge currency and commodity contracts, depreciation and of ore amortisation and corporate social responsibility.
Cash cost is calculated net of co-product revenue.
TANESCO Tanzanian Electric Supply Company Limited The presentation of these statistics in this manner allows ABG to monitor TRA Tanzanian Revenue Authority and manage those factors that impact production costs on a monthly basis.
TRIFR total reportable injury frequency rate ABG calculates cash costs based on its equity interest in production from its mines.
Cash costs per ounce sold are calculated by dividing the Tulawaka Agreement the joint venture agreement dated 15 September 1998 aggregate of these costs by gold ounces sold.
Cash costs and cash cost per asamended from time to time between PGI and MDN ounce sold are calculated on a consistent basis for the periods presented.
TZS Tanzanian shilling UK Corporate the UK Corporate Governance Code dated June 2010 Governance Code issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council UK Takeover Code means the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers United Kingdom or the United Kingdom of Great Britain and UK Northern Ireland Annual Report and Accounts 2012 157 Glossary of terms continued The table below provides a reconciliation between cost of sales and total EBIT is a non-IFRS financial measure and reflects EBITDA adjusted cash cost to calculate the cash cost per ounce sold.
for depreciation and amortisation and goodwill impairment charges.
Year ended 31 December Adjusted net earnings is a non-IFRS financial measure.
It is calculated US$000 2012 2011 byexcluding one-off costs or credits relating to non-routine transactions Total cost of sales 802,709 704,114 from net profit attributed to owners of the parent.
It includes other credit Deduct: Depreciation and amortisation 158,883 134,149 and charges that individually or in aggregate, if of a similar type, are of anature or size that requires explanation in order to provide additional Deduct: Co-product revenue 48,031 67,890 insight into the underlying business performance.
Total cash cost 595,795 502,075 Adjusted net earnings per share is a non-IFRS financial measure and Total ounces sold1 622,932 724,574 iscalculated by dividing adjusted net earnings by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Consolidated cash cost per ounce 956 693 Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share have been Equity ounce adjustment2 7 1 calculated by excluding the following: Attributable cash cost per ounce sold 949 692 Year ended 31 December 1 Reflects 100% of ounces sold.
US$000 2012 2011 2 Reflects the adjustment for non-controlling interests at Tulawaka.
Net earnings 59,471 274,895 EBITDA is a non-IFRS financial measure.
ABG calculates EBITDA Adjusted for: as net profit or loss for the period excluding: Impairment charges 44,536 Prior year Bulyanhulu tax positions recognised 8,855 r Income tax expense: CNG related costs 6,676 r Finance expense: Discounting of indirect taxes 4,185 r Finance income: Tax and minority interest impact of the above 18,239 r Depreciation and amortisation: and Adjusted net earnings 105,484 274,895 r Impairment charges of goodwill and other long-lived assets.
EBITDA is intended to provide additional information to investors and Amortisation and other costs per ounce sold is a non-IFRS financial analysts.
It does not have any standardised meaning prescribed by IFRS measure.
Amortisation and other costs include amortisation and and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures depreciation expenses and the inventory purchase accounting adjustments at ABGs producing mines.
ABG calculates amortisation and other costs ofperformance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
EBITDA excludes the impact of cash costs of financing activities and taxes, and the effects of based on its equity interest in production from its mines.
Amortisation changes in operating working capital balances, and therefore is not and other costs per ounce sold is calculated by dividing the aggregate of necessarily indicative of operating profit or cash flow from operations these costs by ounces of gold sold.
Amortisation and other cost per ounce sold are calculated on a consistent basis for the periods presented.
Other companies may calculate EBITDA differently.
Prior year EBITDA was restated by US$1.4 million to reflect Cash cost per tonne milled is a non-IFRS financial measure.
Cash costs the reclassification of back charges from corporate administration charges include all costs absorbed into inventory, as well as royalties, by-product to finance expenses.
credits and production taxes, and exclude capitalised production stripping A reconciliation between net profit for the period and EBITDA costs, inventory purchase accounting adjustments, unrealised gains losses from non-hedge currency and commodity contracts, depreciation and is presented below: amortisation and corporate social responsibility charges.
Cash cost is Year ended 31 December calculated net of co-product revenue.
ABG calculates cash costs based on US$000 2012 2011 its equity interest in production from its mines.
Cash cost per tonne milled Net profit for the period 48,184 284,777 are calculated by dividing the aggregate of these costs by total tonnes milled.
Plus income tax expense 71,063 117,924 Cash margin is a non-IFRS financial measure.
The cash margin is the Plus depreciation and amortisation 158,883 134,149 average realised gold price per ounce less the cash cost per ounce sold.
Plus impairment charges 44,536 Plus finance expense 10,305 10,082 Operating cash flow per share is a non-IFRS financial measure and is Less finance income 2,102 1,484 calculated by dividing net cash generated by operating activities by the EBITDA 330,869545,448 weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Environmental taxes these comprise levies or other payments Mining statistical information to governments relating to environmental policy.
Typically, these taxes The following describes certain line items used in the ABG Groups tend to be payable on an annual basis.
These taxes are also included discussion of key performance indicators: inouroperating costs.
r Open pit material mined measures in tonnes the total amount of open pit ore and waste mined.
Indirect taxes these comprise VAT and other fuel levies that arise on r Underground ore tonnes hoisted measures in tonnes the total amount thepurchase of goods and services and are paid to third parties, to be of underground ore mined and hoisted.
Typically, these taxes would form part of a salestax return made to governments.
Refunds received are included r Total tonnes mined includes open pit material plus underground in the taxes refunded category.
r Strip ratio measures the ratio of waste to ore for open pit Stamp duty this comprises taxes that arise on transfers of assets or materialmined.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected in stamp duty returns r Ore milled measures in tonnes the amount of ore material processed made to governments and tend to become payable, and are paid, through the mill.
togovernments shortly after capital or assets are transferred.
r Head grade measures the metal content of mined ore going into Taxes collected these are taxes that a company is obliged to collect a mill for processing.
fromothers and pay to government.
The main taxes that we have included r Milled recovery measures the proportion of valuable metal physically in this category are: recovered in the processing of ore.
It is generally stated as a percentage Employee payroll taxes these comprise payroll and employee taxes of the metal recovered compared to the total metal originally present.
withheld from employee remuneration and paid to governments, r Total production costs measures the total cost of production and i. e. taxes collected by ABG and remitted to governments on behalf of is an aggregate of total cash costs as well as production specific employees under arrangements such as PAYE schemes.
Typically, these depreciation and amortisation.
taxes would be reflected in payroll tax returns made to governments and tend to be payable, and are paid, on a regular basis often monthly Basis of preparation for the reporting of tax data throughout the year, shortly after submission of the return.
This basis of preparation supports the reporting of tax data contained onpage 43 of this report.
Generally the references to Tax in this context Withholding taxes collected from suppliers these comprise taxes that means any amount of money required to be paid to, or repaid by, arerequired to be withheld in advance on payments made to suppliers.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected in income tax returns made to governments and tend to be payable, and are paid, on a regular In overview, the key information presented as regards Tax is as follows: basis often monthly throughout the year shortly after the submission ofthe return.
Taxes borne these are taxes that the ABG Group is obliged to pay to a government on its own behalf, or taxes that it is obliged to pay to a third Taxes refunded these are taxes that are refunded by governments party and that can cannot be recovered from a government.
These mostly comprise the following: taxes that we have included in this category are: Indirect taxes mainly VAT and fuel levies typically, indirect taxes Government royalties these comprise payments made to governments would tend to become repayable and are repaid by governments regularly inthe form of royalties.
Typically these tend to become payable, and often quarterly throughout the year, shortly after the submission of arepaid, in the year to which they relate.
These taxes form part of our relevant sales tax returns.
Also included are other refunds received.
Corporate income tax this comprises any tax on the business calculated on the basis of its profits, income or capital gains.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected in corporate income tax returns made to governments.
Customs duties these comprise all customs excise import and export duties.
Typically, these taxes tend to become payable and are paid to governments at the point where goods are imported and exported fromterritories.
These taxes form part of our operating and capital incurred costs.
Employer payroll taxes these comprise payroll and employer taxes payable as a result of a companys capacity as an employer.
Typically, thesetaxes would be reflected in payroll tax returns made to governments and tend to be payable, and are paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout the year shortly after the submission of the return.
These taxes form part of our operating costs.
