Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General information African Barrick Gold plc the Company, ABG or collectively with its subsidiaries the Group was incorporated on 12 January 2010 and reregistered as a public limited company on 12 March 2010 under the Companies Act 2006.
It is registered in England and Wales with registered number 7123187.
On 24 March 2010 the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, hereafter referred to as the Initial Public Offering IPO.
The address of its registered office is 6 St Jamess Place, London SW1A 1NP, United Kingdom.
Barrick Gold Corporation BGC currently owns approximately 73.9% of the shares of the Company and is the ultimate parent and controlling party of the Group.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company on 7 March 2013.
The principal activities of the subsidiaries and joint ventures included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: Equity interest at Equity interest at 31 December 31 December Company Principal activity Country of Incorporation Relationship 2012 2011 African Barrick Gold plc Holding Company UK 100% 100% BUK HoldCo Ltd Holding Company UK Subsidiary 100% 100% BUK East Africa Limited Holding Company UK Subsidiary 100% 1816962 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100% African Barrick Barbados Corp Ltd Group Finance Company Barbados Subsidiary 100% 100% BAPL Holding Ltd Holding Company Mauritius Subsidiary 100% 100% Aviva Mining Kenya Ltd Exploration Kenya Subsidiary 100% CayCo Tz Ltd Holding Company Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100% ABG Exploration Africa Limited Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Matinje Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Itobo Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Mkumi Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 80% 80% Sekenke Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Associate 20% Nyanzaga Exploration Company Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Barrick Tanzanian Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100% Barisun Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% Safari Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% Prime Gold Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Kasubuya Exploration Company Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 60% 60% KMCL Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100% Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% North Mara Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Pangea Goldfields Inc. Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100% Pangea Minerals Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% 1051694 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100% Barrick Africa Proprietary Ltd Shared Services South Africa Subsidiary 100% 100% East Africa Gold Mines Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100% Tusker Gold Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100% Indago Autan Proprietary Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100% IDG Aurum Tanzania Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% 98 www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Equity interest at Equity interest at 31 December 31 December Company Principal activity Country of Incorporation Relationship 2012 2011 IDG Aurum Holdings Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% IDG Kitongo Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Vulcan Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Aptian Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Sub-Sahara Resources Tanzania Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Kahama Project Joint Venture Exploration Tanzania Joint Venture 49% 49% Nyakafuru Project Joint Venture Exploration Tanzania Joint Venture 51% 51% June year-end.
The Company changed its name during the year from Barbco One Ltd to African Barrick Barbados Corp Ltd.
The Company changed its name during the year from Barrick Exploration Africa Ltd to ABG Exploration Africa Limited.
There are no restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds to the parent in the form of cash dividends or to repay loans or advances.
The joint ventures included in the table above are currently immaterial to the Group.
degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and 2.
Significant accounting policies estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these disclosed in Note 2d.
consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless b New and amended standards adopted by the Group otherwise stated.
There are no new IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January a Basis of preparation 2012 that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as c New and amended standards and interpretations not yet adopted adopted by the European Union IFRS, IFRS Interpretations A number of new standards and amendments to standards and Committee IFRS IC interpretation and those parts of the interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
January 2012, and have not been applied in preparing these The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
None of these are expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the Group, except the following set out below: historical cost convention basis, as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative IFRIC 20, Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
This interpretation addresses the following issues: recognition of production stripping costs as an asset: initial The consolidated financial statements are presented in United States measurement of the stripping activity asset: and subsequent dollars US$ and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand measurement of the stripping activity asset.
This interpretation US$000 except when otherwise indicated.
considers when and how to account for the benefit arising from the The Groups primary business is the mining, processing and sale of gold.
stripping activity, as well as how to measure these benefits both initially and subsequently.
The interpretation is effective from 1 The Group has four operating mines located in Tanzania.
The Group also has a portfolio of exploration projects located across Africa.
When published in the Groups 2013 annual report, the Groups restated 2012 financial statements are expected to show Where a change in the presentational format between the prior year an increase in mineral properties and mine development costs of and current year financial statements has been made during the US$11 million, a decrease in inventory of US$6 million and an period, comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
The increase in net income of US$5 million and a decrease of US$9 per following presentational changes were made during the current year: ounce in total cash costs.
There will be no transitional adjustment as a result of applying IFRIC 20.
The Group expects the impact to be Bank charges previously included in corporate administration more significant in 2013. expenses have been reclassified to finance expense 2012: US$1.2 Amendments to IAS 1, Financial statement presentation million: 2011: US$1.4 million.
The main change resulting The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS from these amendments is a requirement for entities to group items requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also presented in other comprehensive income OCI on the basis of requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher Annual Report and Accounts 2012 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities, includes the 2.
Significant accounting policies continued disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, whether they are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles subsequently reclassification adjustments.
The amendments do and other off balance sheet vehicles.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS not address which items are presented in OCI.
12s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 12 no later than the Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures on accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to derecognition.
This amendment will promote transparency in the endorsement by the EU.
reporting of transfer transactions and improve users understanding IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, aims to improve consistency of the risk exposures relating to transfers of financial assets and the and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair effect of those risks on an entitys financial position, particularly value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure those involving securitisation of financial assets.
requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements, which are IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, largely aligned between IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend the use measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be liabilities.
IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 and October 2010. applied where its use is already required or permitted by other It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and standards within IFRSs or US GAAP.
IFRS 9 requires financial Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, assets to be classified into two measurement categories: those clarifies some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and measured at fair value and those measured at amortised cost.
The financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
determination is made at initial recognition.
The classification depends on the entitys business model for managing its financial There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the IAS 39 requirements.
The main change is that, in cases where the d Significant judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair of estimation uncertainty value change due to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in other Many of the amounts included in the consolidated financial comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless statements require management to make judgements and or this creates an accounting mismatch.
The Group is yet to assess estimates.
These judgements and estimates are continuously evaluated IFRS 9s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 9 no later than the and are based on managements experience and best knowledge of the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2015, subject relevant facts and circumstances, but actual results may differ from to endorsement by the EU.
The Group will also consider the the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements.
The impact of the remaining phases of IFRS 9 when completed by Life of Mine plans are central to a number of key estimates.
the International Accounting Standards Board.
Information about such judgements and estimations are included in IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, builds on existing the accounting policies and or notes to the consolidated financial principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
factor in whether an entity should be included within the Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty that consolidated financial statements of the parent company.
The have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determination consolidated financial statements include: of control where this is difficult to assess.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 10s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 10 no later than the Estimates of the quantities of proven and probable gold reserves accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to Note 2h : endorsement by the EU.
The capitalisation of production stripping costs Note 2i : IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, is a reflection of joint arrangements The capitalisation of exploration and evaluation expenditures which focuses on the rights and obligations of the parties to the Notes 2l and 7: arrangement rather than its legal form.
There are two types of joint arrangements: joint operations and joint ventures.
Joint operations Review of goodwill, property, plant and equipment and intangible arise where a joint operator has rights to the assets and obligations assets carrying value, the determination of whether these assets are relating to the arrangement and therefore accounts for its share of impaired and the measurement of impairment charges or reversals assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Joint ventures arise where Notes 2o, 2p, 2q, 2r, 18 and 19: the joint venture has rights to the net assets of the arrangement and The estimated fair values of cash generating units for impairment therefore equity accounts for its interest.
Proportional consolidation tests, including estimates of future costs to produce proven and of joint ventures is no longer allowed.
The Group is yet to assess probable reserves, future commodity prices, foreign exchange rates IFRS 11s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 11 no later than the and discount rates Notes 2r and 19: accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment and the endorsement by the EU.
measurement of depreciation expense Notes 2o and 18: 100 www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases Notes with the policies adopted by the Group.
Subsidiaries are included in 2o and 18: the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control passed to the Group, and have been excluded from the date on which Recognition of a provision for environmental rehabilitation and the control transferred out of the Group.
For partly-owned subsidiaries, the estimation of the rehabilitation costs and timing of expenditure net assets and net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests are Notes 2u and 26: presented as Equity attributable to non-controlling interests in the Whether to recognise a liability for loss contingencies and the consolidated balance sheet and Profit attributable to non-controlling amount of any such provision Notes 2u, 26 and 31: interests in the consolidated income statement, respectively.
Whether to recognise a provision for accounts receivable Notes f Business combinations 2w, 16 and 21: On acquiring a business, the acquisition method of accounting is used, Recognition of deferred income tax assets, amounts recorded for whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable net uncertain tax positions, the measurement of income tax expense assets on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Provisional and indirect taxes Notes 2y, 11 and 20: fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months Determination of the cost incurred in the productive process of ore of the acquisition date.
stockpiles, gold in process, gold dor bullion and concentrate, as When purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the well as the associated net realisable value and the split between the initial cost of the acquisition recorded includes an estimate of the fair long-term and short-term portions Note 2n and 15: value of the contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
Determination of fair value of derivative instruments Note 2w The cost of the acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are and 29: and made, with corresponding adjustments made to goodwill.
Determination of fair value of stock options and cash-settled share-based payments Note 2v and 24.
When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values of the identifiable net assets, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill, which is e Basis of consolidation reviewed for impairment annually or when there is an indication of The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial impairment.
If the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the position as at 31 December 2012 and 2011, and operating results and identifiable net assets exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference is cash flows for the years then ended.
The consolidated financial recognised in the consolidated income statement.
statements of the Group incorporate the financial statements of the Company and companies controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
g Foreign currency translation The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has the control, currencies primarily US dollars, Tanzanian Shillings Shillings, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies in South African Rands Rands, UK pounds sterling Pounds and order to obtain benefits from their activities.
Control is presumed to Australian dollars.
The Group has liabilities that are primarily exist where the Company has more than one half of the voting rights denominated in US dollars.
The US dollar is the Companys and its unless it can be demonstrated that ownership does not constitute main subsidiaries functional currency, as well as the Groups control.
Control does not exist where other parties hold veto rights presentation currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the US over significant operating and financial decisions.
In assessing control, dollar are translated at the exchange rates as at the date of transaction.
potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible as Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the well as other contractual arrangements that enable the Company to US dollar are translated to US dollars at year-end exchange rates.
All exercise control are taken into account.
The consolidated financial differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Nonstatements include all of the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and monetary assets measured at historical cost in a currency other than US cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating dollars are translated using the exchange rates at the date of the initial intercompany transactions as noted above.
Where non-monetary assets are measured at fair value in a subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency currency other than US dollars they are translated into US dollars using the exchange rates on the date when the fair value was determined.
The following exchange rates to the US dollar have been applied: Average Average As at Year ended As at Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2012 2011 2011 South African Rand US$ : ZAR 8.5 8.2 8.08 7.23 Tanzanian Shilling US$ : TZS 1,572 1,572 1,582 1,558 Australian Dollar US$ : AUD 0.96 0.97 0.98 0.97 UK Pound US$ : GBP 0.62 0.63 0.64 0.62 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued economically.
Capitalised open pit mine development costs are depreciated once the open pit has entered production and the future h Determination of ore reserves The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on economic benefit is being derived.
information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance j Revenue recognition with the Canadian Securities Administrators National Instrument Revenue is recognised when persuasive evidence exists that all of the 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects requirements.
following criteria are met: Reports to support these estimates are prepared each year.
Proven and probable 2P reserves, and for certain mines other mineral resources, the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, been transferred to the buyer: amortisation and impairment charges, the assessment of life of mine neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually stripping ratios and for forecasting the timing of the payments related associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold to the environmental rehabilitation provision.
has been retained: In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will of confidence of economic extraction.
flow to the Group: and There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change measured reliably.
significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the Gold dor sales forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production and capital Gold dor is unrefined gold bullion bars usually consisting of 90% costs, grades or recovery rates may change the economic status of gold that is refined to pure gold bullion prior to sale to our customers.
reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being revised.
Revenue from gold dor sales is recognised either at the time of sale to i Stripping costs a third party or, in relation to quarter end settlements, at the time of In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden shipment should the Group have received confirmation of sale to the and other waste materials to access ore from which minerals can be third party.
The sales price is based on the gold spot price at the time extracted economically.
The process of mining overburden and waste of sale.
materials is referred to as stripping.
Stripping costs incurred in order Concentrate sales to provide initial access to the ore body referred to as pre-production Concentrate is a processing product containing the valuable ore stripping are capitalised as mine development costs.
mineral gold, copper and silver from which most of the waste mineral has been eliminated, that undergoes a smelting process to convert it Stripping costs incurred during the production stage of a pit are into gold bullion, copper and silver concentrate.
Under the terms of accounted for as the costs of the inventory produced during the period concentrate sales contracts with independent smelting companies, that the stripping costs were incurred, unless these costs provide a gold, copper and silver in concentrate is sold at trailing monthly future economic benefit.
Production phase stripping costs generate average spot prices based on contract quotational periods.
a future economic benefit when the related stripping activity: i provides access to ore to be mined in the future, ii increases the fair Revenue is recorded, net of selling costs, at the shipped on board date, value of the mine or pit as access to future mineral reserves becomes which is also when risks and rewards pass to the smelting companies, less costly: iii increases the productive capacity or extends the using market prices on the expected date that final sales prices will be productive life of the mine or pit.
For production phase stripping fixed.
Variations between the price recorded at the shipment date and costs that generate a future economic benefit, the current period the actual final price set under the smelting contracts are caused by stripping costs are capitalised as open pit mine development costs.
changes in market prices, and result in an embedded derivative in accounts receivable.
The embedded derivative is recorded at fair value Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate each period until final settlement occurs, with changes in fair value operations for the purpose of mine planning, stripping costs are classified as provisional price adjustments and included as a accounted for separately by reference to the ore reserves from each component of revenue.
Co-product revenues from the sale of other separate pit i. e. the initial stripping of the second and subsequent products, such as copper and silver, contained in the concentrate are pits is considered to be pre-production stripping.
If, however, the recognised in revenue.
pits are highly integrated for the purpose of mine planning, the second and subsequent pits are regarded as extensions of the first pit in Co-products accounting for stripping costs.
In such cases, the initial stripping of Revenue from the sale of co-products, such as copper and silver, the second and subsequent pits is considered to be production contained in concentrates are recognised in revenue.
stripping relating to the combined operation.
k Cost of sales Capitalised open mine development costs are depreciated on a units Cost of sales consists of direct mining costs which include personnel of production basis whereby the denominator is the estimated ounces costs, general and administrative costs, energy costs principally diesel of gold in the associated open pit in proven and probable reserves and fuel and electricity, maintenance and repair costs, operating supplies, the portion of resources considered probable of being extracted 102 www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Evaluation expenditures external services : third party smelting, refining and transport fees: Evaluation expenditures arise from a detailed assessment of deposits or and depreciation related to sales as well as production taxes and other projects that have been identified as having economic potential in royalty expenses for the period.
Cost of sales is based on average order to determine their technical feasibility and commercial viability.
costing for contained or recoverable ounces sold as well as production They typically include costs directly attributable to: taxes and royalty expense for the period.
All costs are net of any impairment to reduce inventory to its net realisable value.
detailed engineering studies: l Exploration and evaluation examination and testing of extraction methods and Exploration expenditures metallurgical treatment processes: Exploration expenditures relate to the initial search for mineral surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements: deposits with economic potential as well as expenditures incurred for the purposes of obtaining more information about existing mineral permitting activities: and deposits.
Exploration expenditures typically comprise costs that are detailed economic evaluations to determine whether development directly attributable to: of the reserves is commercially justified, including the preparation of scoping, pre-feasibility and final feasibility studies.
researching and analysing existing exploration data: conducting geological studies: Evaluation expenditures incurred at greenfield and brownfield sites are expensed as incurred, unless it can be demonstrated that the related exploratory drilling and sampling for the purposes of obtaining core evaluation expenditures will generate a future economic benefit.
samples and the related metallurgical assay of these cores: and drilling to determine the volume and grade of deposits in an area Evaluation expenditures incurred at operating mines development known to contain mineral resources or for the purposes of projects are capitalised as a component of property, plant and equipment, converting mineral resources into proven and probable reserves.
Mineral properties and mine development costs, respectively.
Exploration expenditures incurred at greenfield sites sites where Acquired exploration and evaluation properties the Group does not have any mineral deposits that are already being Exploration and evaluation stage properties acquired either as an mined or developed are typically expensed as incurred, unless it can acquisition of individual assets or as part of a business combination are be demonstrated that the related evaluation expenditures will generate capitalised as an intangible asset, Acquired exploration and evaluation a future economic benefit.
Exploration expenditures incurred at properties.
Exploration and evaluation stage properties represent brownfield sites sites that are adjacent to a mineral deposit that is interests in properties that do not have mineralised material classified classified within proven and probable reserves and are already being within proven and probable reserves.
The value of such properties is mined or developed are capitalised if the following criteria are met: primarily driven by the nature and amount of mineralised material contained in such properties, including value attributable to the rights to the drilling is being done in an inferred or measured and indicated explore or develop: i a property containing mineralised material resource: and classified as a measured, indicated or inferred resource: or ii a there is an existing proven and probable reserve that is contiguous prospective greenfield property with significant exploration potential.
or adjacent to where the drilling is being done: and Exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred on such properties subsequent to their acquisition are expensed as incurred until the it is probable that the resource will be converted to a proven and technical and commercial viability of developing the property has been probable reserve.
demonstrated under the same criteria described above for exploration and evaluation expenditures.
The assessment of probability is based on the following factors: results from previous drill programmes: results from a geological study: m Earnings per share results from a mine scoping study confirming economic viability of Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net profit for the the resource: and preliminary estimates of the volume and grade of period attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted the deposit, and the net cash flows expected to be generated from its average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding for the period.
Costs incurred at brownfield sites that meet the above Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution that could criteria are capitalised as a component of property, plant and occur if additional Ordinary Shares are assumed to be issued under equipment mine development costs pursuant to IAS 16, Property, securities that entitle their holders to obtain Ordinary Shares in the Plant and Equipment.
All other drilling and related exploration costs future.
For stock options, the number of additional shares for incurred at these sites are expensed as mine site exploration.
inclusion in diluted earnings per share calculations is determined Exploration expenditures incurred for the purposes of determining using the treasury stock method.
Under this method, stock options, additional information on a mineral deposit that is classified within whose exercise price is less than the average market price of our proven and probable reserves or for the purposes of extending an Ordinary Shares, are assumed to be exercised and the proceeds are existing mineral deposit that is classified within proven and probable used to repurchase Ordinary Shares at the average market price for the reserves and is already being mined or developed are also capitalised period.
The incremental number of Ordinary Shares issued under as mine development costs.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Provisions are recorded to reduce ore stockpiles, work in process and finished goods inventory to net realisable value where the net m Earnings per share continued stock options and repurchased from proceeds is included in the realisable value of the inventory is lower than its cost at each balance calculation of diluted earnings per share.
Net realisable value is determined with reference to relevant market prices less applicable variable selling expenses.
n Inventory Provisions recorded also reflect an estimate of the remaining costs of Material extracted from the Groups mines is classified as either ore completion to bring the inventory into its saleable form.
Ore represents material that, at the time of extraction, is are recorded to reduce mine operating supplies to net realisable value, expected to be processed into a saleable form and sold at a profit.
which is generally calculated by reference to its salvage or scrap value, Waste represents material that is required to be removed to access ore when it is determined that the supplies are slow moving and or bodies.
Ore is recorded as an asset that is classified within inventory as obsolete.
Provisions are reversed to reflect subsequent recoveries in material is extracted from the open pit or underground mine.
Ore is net realisable value where the inventory is still on hand at the balance accumulated in stockpiles that are subsequently processed into gold sheet date.
in a saleable form under a mine plan that takes into consideration optimal scheduling of production of our reserves, present plant o Property, plant and equipment Mineral properties and mine development costs capacity, and the market price of gold and copper.
Work in process Mineral properties and mine development costs are stated at cost, inventory represents gold, copper and silver in the processing circuit less accumulated depreciation and applicable accumulated that has not completed the production process, and is not yet in a impairment losses.
The acquisition cost of a mineral property is the saleable form.
Finished goods inventory represents gold in saleable estimated fair value of proven and probable reserves acquired as a form that has not yet been shipped.
Mine operating supplies represent result of a business combination or asset acquisition.
Capitalised commodities and other raw materials consumed in the production mine development costs include: pre-production stripping costs: process, as well as spare parts and other maintenance supplies that are production stripping costs that result in a future economic benefit not classified as capital items.
Inventories are valued at the lower refer to Note 2i for capitalisation criteria for stripping costs : costs of cost and net realisable value, with cost being determined on a incurred to access reserves at underground mining operations: and weighted average cost basis.
Average costs are calculated by reference exploration and evaluation expenditures that result in a probable to the cost of inventory at the beginning of the period together with future economic benefit refer to Note 2l for capitalisation criteria the cost of inventory produced in a period.
for exploration and evaluation expenditures.
Gold, copper and silver ore contained in stockpiles is measured by Development costs incurred at underground mines to build new shafts, estimating the number of tonnes added and removed from the drifts and ramps that provide physical access to the underground ore are stockpile, and the associated estimate of gold contained therein based capitalised as incurred.
These costs can be incurred throughout the life on assay data and applying estimated metallurgical recovery rates of the underground mine.
based on the expected processing method.
Stockpile ore tonnages are verified by periodic surveys.
Costs are allocated to ore stockpiles Plant and equipment based on quantities of material stockpiled using current mining costs Plant and equipment is recorded at cost, less accumulated incurred up to the point of stockpiling the ore and include: direct depreciation and applicable impairment losses.
Cost includes all labour costs: materials and contractor expenses which are directly expenditures incurred to prepare an asset for its intended use attributable to the extraction of ore, including an allocation of including: the purchase price: brokers commissions: capitalised stripping costs attributable to current period production: an allocation borrowing costs and installation costs including architectural, of mine site overhead costs: and depreciation of mining properties and design and engineering fees, legal fees, survey costs, site preparation property, plant and equipment used in the extraction of ore, reduced costs, freight charges, transportation insurance costs, and duties.
by an allocation of capitalised stripping costs.
As ore is processed, costs are removed based on recoverable quantities of gold and the Costs that extend the productive capacity or useful economic life of an stockpiles average cost per unit.
Ore that is not expected to be asset are capitalised.
Costs incurred that do not extend the productive processed in the 12 months following the balance sheet date is capacity or useful economic life of an asset are considered repairs and classified as non-current.
maintenance and expensed as incurred.
Costs capitalised in process and finished goods inventory include: The Group enters into leasing arrangements and arrangements that the cost of stockpiles processed: the cost of commodities and raw are in substance leasing arrangements.
The determination of whether materials consumed in the production process: direct labour: repair an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of and maintenance costs: energy costs: depreciation of property, plant the arrangement at inception date, including whether the fulfilment and equipment used in the production process: and an allocation of of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or mine site overhead costs.
Costs are removed from finished goods assets or whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
inventory and recorded in cost of sales based on the average cost A reassessment after inception is only made in specific circumstances.
per ounce of gold, copper and silver sold in the period.
Leasing arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to the Group are classified as Cost of mine operating supplies is the purchase cost, including finance leases.
allocated freight costs where applicable.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Finance leases are recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability and which only provide an economic benefit over the period of at an amount equal to the lower of the fair value of the leased property mining that ore block or area.
Development costs incurred which and the present value at the beginning of the lease term of the benefit the entire ore body are depreciated over the recoverable minimum lease payments over the term of the lease.
Each lease proven and probable reserves of the entire ore body.
payment is allocated between the liability and finance costs using the The expected depreciation rates of the major categories of assets are effective interest method, whereby a constant rate of interest expense as follows: is recognised on the balance of the liability outstanding.
The interest element of the lease is charged to the income statement as a finance Mineral properties and mine development costs UOP expense.
The property, plant and equipment assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the Plant and equipment 4% 25% asset and the lease term.
Underground mobile equipment 14.3% 20% Light vehicles and other mobile equipment 33.3% 50% All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease Furniture, computer and office equipment 33.3% 50% payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
UOP indicates assets which are depreciated on the basis of units of production UOP, in this case ounces of gold produced in a period divided by the total recoverable reserves and resources of gold expected to be mined based on the current life of mine plans.
Assets under construction Assets in the course of construction at both our development projects Each assets estimated residual value and useful life are reviewed, and and operating mines are capitalised in the assets under construction adjusted if appropriate, on an annual basis.
The estimate of residual account.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its value and useful life is based on the physical condition and life purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into limitations of buildings, plant and equipment and the present working condition for its intended use, at which point it is transferred assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine for the to property, plant and equipment and depreciation commences.
mining property and development cost asset.
Changes to the estimated Development projects are recorded at cost, less applicable accumulated residual values or useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
Development projects represent interests in properties that contain proven and probable reserves and where p Goodwill development activities are ongoing.
The cost of development projects Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair is composed of: the estimated fair value of development stage assets value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired as a result of a business combination or an asset acquisition: acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially determined and costs associated with the construction of tangible assets, such as based on provisional fair values.
Fair values are finalised within 12 processing plants, permanent housing facilities and other tangible months of the acquisition date.
For non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, infrastructure associated with the project.
Assets under construction non-controlling interests are initially recorded based on the nonalso contains deposits on long lead items.
Assets under construction controlling interests proportion of the fair values for the assets and are not depreciated.
Depreciation Goodwill that is acquired through business combinations is allocated to Property, plant and equipment is depreciated, net of residual value, cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if shorter on a to benefit from the synergies of the business combination.
Each of the straight-line basis.
For mineral properties and mine development costs, Groups CGUs that has an allocation of goodwill is also an operating the economic benefits of the assets are consumed in a pattern which is segment as defined by IFRS 8.
Consequently, goodwill is tested for linked to the production level.
Such assets are depreciated on a unit of impairment at the individual CGU level.
Depreciation commences when assets are available Goodwill is not amortised: rather it is tested annually for impairment for their intended use.
In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally calculated using the quantity of gold extracted in accordance with accounting policy Note 2r.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill impairments are from the mine or pit in the period as a percentage of the total quantity not reversible.
of material expected to be extracted in current and future periods based on estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves and, for some q Intangible assets mines, mineral resources.
Such non-reserve material may be included in Intangible assets acquired by way of an asset acquisition or business the depreciation calculations where there is a high degree of confidence combination are recognised if the asset is separable or arises from in its economic extraction and the production of the non-reserve contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably material is reflected in the life of mine plan.
On acquisition of a mineral property in the exploration stage, an estimate of the fair value attributable to the Development costs that relate to a discrete section of an ore body exploration potential is prepared, including mineral resources, if any, and which only provide benefit over the life of those reserves are of that property.
The fair value of the exploration potential is recorded depreciated over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of that as an intangible asset acquired exploration potential as at the date discrete section.
Discrete sections include capitalised underground of acquisition.
When an exploration stage property moves into development costs or production stripping costs incurred for the development, any acquired exploration intangible asset balance purposes of providing access to specific ore blocks or areas of the mine Annual Report and Accounts 2012 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued on detailed research, analysis and modelling to optimise the internal rate of return for each CGU.
As such, these plans consider the optimal attributable to that property is transferred to mineral properties level of investment, overall production levels and sequence of extraction within property, plant and equipment.
taking into account all relevant characteristics of the ore body, Impairment testing and the reversal of impairments are conducted including waste-to-ore tonnes, ore grades, haul distances, chemical in accordance with accounting policy Note 2r.
and metallurgical properties impacting process recoveries and capacities of available extraction, haulage and processing equipment.
r Impairment of non-current assets Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or at any time during Projected future revenues reflect the forecasted future production the year if an indicator of impairment is considered to exist.
levels at each CGU as detailed in the LOM plans.
Included in these forecasts is the production of mineral resources that do not currently We review and test the carrying amounts of intangible assets when qualify for inclusion in proven and probable ore reserves where there events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount is a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction.
This is may not be recoverable.
consistent with the approach that a market participant would utilise in preparing a forecast of expected production levels.
Projected future Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if there is revenues also reflect the Groups estimate of long-term gold prices, any indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
which is determined based on current prices, an analysis of the expected total production costs of producers and forward pricing An impairment loss shall be recognised for a CGU if, and only if, the curves and forecasts of expected long-term prices prepared by recoverable amount of the unit is less than the carrying amount of the research analysts.
These estimates often differ from current price unit.
The impairment loss shall first be allocated to reduce the carrying levels, but this methodology is consistent with how a market amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other participant would assess long-term gold prices.
assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
The estimates of future cash costs of production and capital expenditures are derived from the LOM plans for each CGU.
Costs An impairment loss recognised in prior years for non-financial assets incurred in currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US other than goodwill shall be reversed if, and only if, there has been a dollars using expected long-term exchange rates based on the relevant change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable forward pricing curve for that currency.
Oil prices are a significant amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
This reversal is component, both directly and indirectly, of the expected cash costs of recognised in the consolidated statement of income and is limited to production.
Estimates for long-term oil prices used in the LOM plans the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of any are based on the current spot price, the forward pricing curve and depreciation, had no impairment been recognised in prior years.
After long-term oil price forecasts prepared by analysts.
such a reversal, any depreciation charge is adjusted prospectively.
The discount rate applied to present value is based upon the real The recoverable amount of an asset is assessed by reference to the weighted average cost of capital applicable to the CGU.
The discount higher of value in use VIU, being the net present value NPV of rate reflects equity risk premiums over the risk-free rate, the impact of future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and fair value the remaining economic life of the CGU and the risks associated with less costs to sell FVLCS.
Impairment assessments are conducted at the relevant cash flows based on the country in which the CGU is the level of CGUs, which is the lowest level for which identifiable cash located.
These risk adjustments are based on observed equity risk flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets.
Each premiums, historical country risk premiums and average credit operating mine and development project represents a CGU for default swap spreads for the period.
An impairment loss is recognised for any excess of carrying amount of a CGU over its recoverable amount.
In determining FVLCS, a market multiple is applied to the NPV of each CGU.
Gold companies typically trade at a market capitalisation The FVLCS of a CGU is based on an estimate of the amount that the that is based on a multiple of their underlying NPV.
Consequently, Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
There a market participant would generally apply an NPV multiple when is no active market for the Groups CGUs.
Consequently, FVLCS is estimating the fair value of a gold property.
The NPV multiples derived using discounted cash flow techniques NPV of expected utilised in the determination of the FVLCS of a CGU consider the future cash flows of a CGU, which incorporate market participant NPV multiples observed in comparable companies.
Cost to sell is based on managements best estimates of multiples are primarily derived from research analyst reports and future selling costs at the time of calculating FVLCS.
Costs attributable take into consideration the following: i estimate of underlying NPV to the sale of a CGU are not considered significant.
prepared by the analyst: ii estimate of target market capitalisation prepared by the analyst: iii market capitalisation on the date of the The expected future cash flows utilised in the NPV model are derived analyst report: and iv market capitalisation on the date of the from estimates of projected future revenues, future cash costs of impairment test.
The NPV multiple applied also takes into production and capital expenditures contained in the life of mine consideration the remaining economic life of the CGU.
LOM plan for each CGU, which are generally updated in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year.
The Groups LOM plans reflect proven and probable reserves and convertible resources and are based 106 www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The VIU of a CGU is generally lower than its FVLCS, due primarily to as an integral part of a mining or production process, are not included the application of a market multiple to the underlying NPV of a CGU in the provision.
Costs arising from unforeseen circumstances, such when determining its FVLCS.
Consequently, the recoverable amount as the contamination caused by unplanned discharges, are recognised of a CGU for impairment testing purposes is determined based on as an expense and liability when the event occurs that gives rise to an its FVLCS.
obligation and reliable estimates of the required rehabilitation costs can be made.
s Contributed surplus The Company did not exist until 12 January 2010, and did not become The timing of the actual rehabilitation expenditure is dependent the parent company for the Group until 22 February 2010 when the upon a number of factors such as the life and nature of the asset, the transfer of the members of the Group pursuant to the Pre-IPO operating licence conditions and the environment in which the mine Reorganisation was completed.
Contributed surplus represents the operates.
Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can difference between the cumulative investment in the entities and continue for an extended period of time depending on rehabilitation businesses which form part of the consolidated African Barrick Gold requirements.
The majority of the expenditure is expected to be paid plc Group and non-controlling interests.
over periods of up to 30 years with some payments into perpetuity.
Rehabilitation provisions are measured at the expected value of future t Share capital cash flows, discounted to their present value using a current, marketOrdinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly based estimate of the real risk-free pre-tax discount rates.
The attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity unwinding of the discount is included in finance expense and results as a deduction from the proceeds.
in an increase in the amount of the provision.
Provisions are updated each reporting period for the effect of a change in the discount rate u Provisions and the change in estimate is added or deducted from the related asset Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation and depreciated prospectively over the assets useful life.
legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and Significant judgements and estimates are involved in forming a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the expectations of future activities and the amount and timing of the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined associated cash flows.
Those expectations are formed based on by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that existing environmental and regulatory requirements or, if more reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, stringent, Group environmental policies which give rise to a where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
When provisions for closure and rehabilitation are initially recognised, the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, representing part of Rehabilitation costs the cost of acquiring the future economic benefits of the operation.
The mining, extraction and processing activities of the Group The capitalised cost of closure and rehabilitation activities is recognised normally give rise to obligations for environmental rehabilitation.
in property, plant and equipment and depreciated accordingly.
Rehabilitation works can include facility decommissioning and dismantling: removal or treatment of waste materials: site and land It is possible that managements estimates of provisions could change rehabilitation.
The extent of work required and the associated costs as a result of changes in regulations, the extent of rehabilitation are dependent on the requirements of relevant authorities and the required, and the means of reclamation or cost estimates.
Rehabilitation provisions are adjusted as a result of changes in estimates.
Those adjustments are accounted for as a change in the Provisions for the cost of each rehabilitation programme are corresponding value of the related asset, except where a reduction recognised at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
When in the provision is greater than the remaining net book value of the extent of disturbance increases over the life of an operation, the the related assets, in which case the value is reduced to nil and the provision is increased accordingly.
The major parts of the carrying remaining adjustment is recognised in the income statement.
In amount of provisions relate to tailings pond closure rehabilitation: the case of closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised demolition of buildings mine facilities: ongoing water treatment: and immediately in the income statement.
Changes to the capitalised cost ongoing care and maintenance of closed mines.
Costs included in the result in an adjustment to future depreciation and finance expense.
provision encompass all closure and rehabilitation activity expected On an annual basis, the Group reviews for changes in cost estimates, to occur progressively over the life of the operation and at the time discount rates or life of operations.
of closure in connection with disturbances at the reporting date.
Estimated costs included in the determination of the provision v Employee benefits reflect the risks and probabilities of alternative estimates of cash The Group operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation flows required to settle the obligation at each particular operation.
plan the Stock Option Plan, a long-term incentive plan the Routine operating costs that may impact the ultimate closure and LTIP, a legacy restricted share unit plan the Legacy RSU Plan rehabilitation activities, such as waste material handling conducted and a deferred share unit plan the DSU Plan.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued performance.
Changes in the fair value of the RSU liability, due to 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Share-based compensation changes in the price of Ordinary Shares of the Company, are recorded, VVXH RI 6WRFN 2SWLRQV each period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
Stock options can be granted under either the Company LTIP or the Compensation expenses recognised for RSUs incorporate an estimate Stock Option Plan.
The Company receives services from employees as for expected forfeiture rates.
The expected forfeiture is estimated based consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair on historical forfeiture rates of the Group and expectations of future value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the forfeiture rates.
Adjustments to compensation expense are recognised options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed in periods where the actual forfeiture rate differs from the expected rate.
is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: Legacy RSU Plan including any market performance conditions: Historically, the Barrick Group has maintained a Restricted Share Unit RSU plan for select employees who now work for the Group.
excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance This plan operates in an incidental manner to the Company RSU plan.
vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets These existing legacy restricted share units will continue to be and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time administered and accounted for based on the movement of the fair period : and value of the Barrick Ordinary Share for recording of liabilities and excluding the impact of any non-vesting conditions for example, compensation expense.
the requirement for employees to save.
Deferred share units Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about Under the Deferred Share Unit DSU plan, the Non-Executive the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total expense is Directors can elect to receive all or a part of their annual Director fees recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all in DSUs.
Each DSU has the same value as one ABG Ordinary Share.
of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At the end of DSUs must be retained until the Director leaves the Board, at which each reporting period, the Company revises its estimates of the time the cash value of the DSU is paid out.
Additional DSUs are number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market credited to reflect dividends paid on ABG Ordinary Shares.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original for DSUs is measured at fair value on the grant date and is recognised estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
charge to the Directors compensation expense.
At the grant date, the fair value of the awards is determined from the market value of the When the options are exercised, the Company may issue new shares shares at the date of the award.
Changes in the fair value of the DSU or procure the transfer of existing shares to satisfy the exercise.
Where liability, due to changes in the price of Ordinary Shares of the shares are issued, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable Company, are recorded each period, with a corresponding charge transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and to the Directors compensation expense.
share premium when the options are exercised.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees Defined contribution plan of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital The Groups Tanzanian employees are members of primarily either contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured the National Social Security Fund NSSF or of the Parastatal by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting Pension Fund PPF, which are defined contribution plans.
A defined period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with contribution plan is a plan under which the Group pays fixed a corresponding credit to equity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contribution if the fund does LTIP not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating The Company has a cash-settled, Restricted Share Unit RSU plan for to the employee service in the current and prior periods.
Under the terms of the RSU plan, selected employees and employees both contribute 10% of the employees gross salaries to are granted RSUs where each RSU has a value equal to one Ordinary the schemes.
The contributions are charged to the income statement Share of the Company.
RSUs granted to Executive Directors and the when they are due.
other members of the Senior Leadership Team vest based on the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance against the Termination benefits market cap-weighted TSR of a comparator group of companies over the Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by vesting period referred to as Performance RSUs.
RSUs vest over a twothe Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee and-a-half or three-year period and are settled in cash.
Additional RSUs accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The are credited to reflect dividends paid on Ordinary Shares of the Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably Company during the vesting period with a corresponding charge to the committed to either: terminating the employment of current compensation expense.
A liability for RSUs is measured at fair value on employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of the grant date and is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting withdrawal: or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
At made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more the grant date the fair value of the awards is determined from the market than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to their value of the shares at the date of award and adjusted for any market present value.
based vesting conditions attached to the award e. g. relative TSR 108 www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Bonus plans The Group documents at inception of the transaction the relationship The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk it is contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging created a constructive obligation.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are Other entitlements used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes The estimated monetary liability for employees accrued annual leave in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
entitlement at the balance sheet date is recognised as an expense accrual.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging w Financial instruments purposes are disclosed in Note 29.
Movements in the hedging reserve Cash and cash equivalents are shown in other comprehensive income.
The full fair value of a Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, include cash, and money market funds.
For the purposes of the cash and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash hedged item is less than 12 months.
Trading derivatives are classified equivalents as defined above.
as a current asset or liability.
Loans and receivables D DLU YDOXH KHGJH Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that either fair value through profit and loss or available for sale.
These are attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss relating to the are initially recognised at fair value, and are subsequently stated at effective portion is recognised in the income statement within amortised cost using the effective interest method.
They are included finance costs.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months recognised in the income statement within other gains losses after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current net.
Changes in the fair value of the hedge attributable to interest rate assets, where the receivables are discounted and held at their net risk are recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, other adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the assets and cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date.
effective interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss over the period to maturity.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect E &DVK IORZ KHGJH all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other amount and the expected cash flows discounted at the effective comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated income of an allowance account.
The amount of the provision is recognised statement within Non-hedge derivative gains losses net.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the Derivatives periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
The gain or loss relating to the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured effective portion is recognised in the income statement.
However, when at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a nondepends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging financial asset for example, inventory or fixed assets, the gains and losses instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in designates certain derivatives as: the initial measurement of the cost of the asset.
The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised in cost of goods sold in the case of inventory or in a hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities depreciation in the case of property, plant and equipment.
or a firm commitment fair value hedge : b hedges of the income cost of a highly probable forecast When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no transaction or commitment cash flow hedge : or longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income net investment hedge.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement within other gains losses net.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Current income tax 2.
Significant accounting policies continued F 1HW LQYHVWPHQW KHGJH Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or similarly to cash flow hedges.
paid to the taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in paid to the tax authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the income statement.
the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on Embedded derivatives temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly expected to apply when the related deferred income tax liability is and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Financial liabilities Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: differences, except: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with draw-down occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the period of the facility to which it relates.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and sheet date.
unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences x Finance income and finance expense and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the can be utilised except: effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest temporary differences arises from the initial recognition of an asset rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, interest income.
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and Interest is recognised as a borrowing cost on a time proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs that relate in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with directly to the construction of property, plant and equipment during investments in subsidiaries deferred income tax assets are the time that it is required to complete and prepare the asset for its recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can y Taxes be utilised.
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer in equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all income or directly in equity, respectively.
or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each The following percentages apply: balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to Bulyanhulu 4% NSR be recovered.
Tulawaka 4% NSR North Mara Nyabirama and Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates Nyabigena pits 4% NSR, 1% LT that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the North Mara Gokona pit 4% NSR, 1.1% LT liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been Buzwagi 4% NSR, 30%NPI enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The NPI is calculated as a percentage of profits realised from the Buzwagi mine after all capital, Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of exploration and development costs and interest incurred in relation to the Buzwagi mine have been recouped and all operating costs relating to the Buzwagi mine have been paid.
No amount is enquiries raised and additional tax assessments issued, have been currently payable.
measured using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach.
The Group agreed to a voluntary 1% increase in the NSR royalty rate in 2012.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is aa Leases recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current income tax from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income basis over the period of the lease.
taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment.
Leases of Indirect tax property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially Indirect tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the Finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value taken in indirect tax returns with respect to situations in which of the minimum lease payments.
applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions or receivables where appropriate on the basis of amounts Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance expected to be paid to or received from the tax authorities.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are are included in other liabilities.
The interest element of the finance enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
If the cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to receivable is expected to be received in more than 12 months from produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance year-end, the receivable is discounted and held at its present value.
of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and equipment Amounts expected to be payable or receivable in more than 12 months acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the are classified as non-current assets or liabilities in the balance sheet, useful life of the asset and the lease term.
bb Dividend distribution z Royalties Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised Royalty arrangements based on mineral production are in place at as a liability in the consolidated financial statements in the period in each operating mine.
The primary type of royalty is a net smelter which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Under this type of royalty the Group pays the holder an amount calculated as the royalty percentage multiplied by the value of gold production at market gold prices less selling costs.
The North Mara mine is also subject to a land royalty land tenements LT based on the net revenue derived from the open pit mines.
Royalty expense is recorded when revenue from the sale of gold, copper and silver production is recognised.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Segment reporting The Group has only one primary product produced in a single geographic location, being gold produced in Tanzania.
In addition the Group produces copper and silver as a co-product.
Reportable operating segments are based on the internal reports provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to evaluate segment performance, decide how to allocate resources and make other operating decisions.
After applying the aggregation criteria and quantitative thresholds contained in IFRS 8, the Groups reportable operating segments were determined to be: North Mara gold mine: Tulawaka gold mine: Bulyanhulu gold mine: Buzwagi gold mine: and a separate Corporate and Exploration segment, which primarily consists of costs related to corporate administration and exploration and evaluation activities Other.
Segment results and assets include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, inventories, other assets and receivables.
Capital expenditures comprise additions to property, plant and equipment.
Segment liabilities are not reported since they are not considered by the CODM as material to segment performance.
The Group has also included segment cash costs.
Segment information for the reportable operating segments of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 is set out below.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information For the year ended 31 December 2011 in thousands of United States dollars except references to ounces North Mara TulawakaBulyanhulu Buzwagi Other Total Gold revenue 272,026 131,435 429,528 317,036 1,150,025 Co-product revenue 917 316 35,509 31,148 67,890 Total segment revenue 272,943 131,751 465,037 348,184 1,217,915 1,5 Segment cash operating cost 139,204 60,952 200,072 169,737 79,487 649,452 Other charges and corporate social responsibility expenses 5,112 2,826 8,461 12,334 5,718 23,015 2 EBITDA 128,627 67,973 256,504 166,113 73,769 545,448 Depreciation and amortisation 34,724 17,251 32,320 46,029 3,825 134,149 2 EBIT 93,903 50,722 224,184 120,084 77,594 411,299 Total segment finance income 1,484 5 Total segment finance expense 10,082 Profit before taxation 402,701 Tax expense 117,924 Net profit for the period 284,777 Capital expenditure: Sustaining  11,802145,211 Expansionary 47,3818,3466,626920 63,273 Capitalised development 26,407 9,252 32,748 15,583 83,990 Rehabilitation asset addition 18,791 10,953 13,309 9,708 52,761 Total capital expenditure 123,146 31,652 95,432 83,203 11,802 345,235 Cash costs: 1 Segment cash operating cost  569,965 Deduct: Co-product revenue 917 316 35,509 31,148 67,890 Total cash costs 138,287 60,636 164,563 138,589 502,075 3 Sold ounces  724,574 2 Cash cost per ounce sold 810 727 610 691 693 4 Equity ounce adjustment 1 2 Attributable cash cost per ounce sold 692 1 The Chief Operating Decision Maker reviews cash operating costs for the four operating mine sites separately from corporate administration costs and exploration costs.
Consequently, the Group has reported these costs in this manner.
2 These are non-IFRS financial performance measures with no standard meaning under IFRS.
Refer to Non-IFRS measures on page 157 for definitions.
4 Reflects the adjustment for non-controlling interest at Tulawaka.
5 Restated due to reclassification of bank charges from corporate administration to finance expense.
As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Segment assets North Mara 772,819 727,552 Tulawaka 58,060 131,193 Bulyanhulu 1,130,728 1,128,992 Buzwagi 931,607 830,790 6 Other 435,509 475,935 Total segment assets 3,328,723 3,294,462 6 In the current year, assets to the value of US$33.6 million were acquired in the purchase of Aviva Mining Kenya Limited AMKL.
Refer to Note 22 for further details.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Revenue For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Gold dor sales 709,821 699,843 1 Gold concentrate sales 329,487 450,182 1 Copper concentrate sales 41,123 57,529 Silver sales 6,908 10,361 Total 1,087,339 1,217,915 1 Gold and copper concentrate sales includes provisional price adjustments to the accounts receivable balance due to changes in market prices for gold and copper prior to final settlement as follows: US$4.1 million for the year ended 31 December 2012 US$5.5 million for the year ended 31 December 2011.
For the For the year ended 31 year ended December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 2 Revenue by location of customer Europe Switzerland 568,061 702,563 Germany 114,471 88,054 Asia China 162,140 290,469 Japan 98,871 136,829 India 143,796 Total revenue 1,087,339 1,217,915 2 Revenue by location of customer is determined based on the country to which the gold is delivered.
Included in revenues for the year ended 31 December 2012 are revenues of approximately US$927 million 2011: US$1,130 million which arose from sales to four of the Groups largest customers.
No other customers individually account for more than 10% of the Groups revenues.
Cost of sales For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Direct mining costs 581,483 510,465 Third party smelting fees 18,574 21,400 1 Depreciation and amortisation 158,883 134,149 Royalty expense 43,769 38,100 2 Total 802,709 704,114 1 Depreciation and amortisation includes the depreciation and amortisation component relating to the cost of inventory sold.
2 Cost of sales less depreciation and amortisation equals cash operating costs.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6.
Employee benefits For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 3 Wages and salaries 142,100 134,624 1,3 Other employee benefits 92,445 87,582 2 Stock-based compensation charge 4,668 1,735 Total 239,213 223,941 1 Other employee benefits include bonuses, leave pay, pensions, medical expenses, severance costs and other benefits.
2 Further details of the Groups stock options and other stock-based compensation plans are provided in Note 24.
3 The prior year wages and salaries and other employee benefits has been restated due to a change in the other employee benefits definition.
For the For the year ended year ended Average number of employees 31 December 31 December in thousands 2012 2011 Operations 5,230 4,815 Exploration 80 64 Administration 358 303 Total average headcount 5,668 5,182 7.
Exploration and evaluation costs The following represents a summary of exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred at each mine site and significant exploration targets if applicable.
For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Expensed during the year: North Mara 5,814 4,543 Buzwagi 967 934 Tulawaka 2,208 531 Bulyanhulu 2,215 1,250 1 Other 17,757 23,081 Total expensed 28,961 30,339 Capitalised during the year: North Mara 5,259 14,329 Buzwagi 314 Tulawaka 2,883 2,880 Bulyanhulu 5,191 231 Nyanzaga 3,241 Total capitalised 16,574 17,754 Total 45,535 48,093 1 Included in other are the exploration activities conducted through ABG Exploration Africa Limited.
All primary greenfield exploration and evaluation activities are conducted in this Company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Other charges For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Other expenses Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 179 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 4,185 Severance payments 400 1,646 Foreign exchange losses net 6,001 Non-hedge derivative losses net 1,719 Construction and consumable inventory write-down 1,461 4,684 Bad debt expense 740 1,098 Disallowed indirect taxes 2,952 7,123 Legal costs for litigation 1,655 Asset write-downs 897 1,252 1 CNG related costs 6,676 Other 1,945 1,696 Total 22,630 23,679 Other income Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 616 Foreign exchange gains net 4,343 Non-hedge derivative gains net 7,901 Other 139 Total 4,959 8,040 Total other charges 17,671 15,639 1 Costs incurred as a direct result of the China National Gold interest in ABG were included in other charges.
These costs include advisory fees, travel and accommodation costs and retention scheme provisions.
Auditors remuneration During the year the Group including its subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditor s : For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Audit fees Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 396 464 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 489 518 Audit related assurance services 360 309 Other assurance services 100 87 Tax compliance services 214 157 Other services 12 4 Total 1,571 1,539 116 www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 10.
Finance income and finance expense a Finance income For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Interest on time deposits 1,231 1,030 Other 871 454 Total 2,102 1,484 b Finance expense For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 1 Unwinding of discount 4,021 3,344 Interest on bank overdraft 12 199 2 Revolving credit facility charges 3,014 4,570 Interest on finance leases 841 210 3 Bank charges 1,216 1,357 Other 1,201 402 4 Total 10,305 10,082 1 The unwinding of discount is calculated on the environmental rehabilitation provision presented in Note 26.
2 Included in credit facility charges are the amortisation of the fees related to the revolving credit facility as well as the monthly interest and facility fees, refer to Note 28.
3 Bank charges previously included in corporate administration expenses have been reclassified to finance expense.
4 For cash flow purposes unwinding of discount is excluded from the finance expense movement.
Tax expense For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Current tax: Current tax on profits for the year 10,162 1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 120 28,663 Total current tax 120 38,825 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 70,943 79,099 Total deferred tax 70,943 79,099 Income tax expense 71,063 117,924 1 During 2011, a binding Memorandum of Settlement MOS with the Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRA was executed to address the treatment of certain outstanding indirect tax refunds in respect of fuel levies and value added taxation VAT.
The terms of the MOS allow the Group to offset income tax payable against outstanding refunds for VAT and fuel levies.
As a result of these changes, PML, which is the taxpaying entity holding Tulawaka and Buzwagi, has agreed to treat both mines as separate tax entities.
There was no offset of indirect tax receivables in 2012 due to assessed losses carried forward and taxable losses incurred at Tulawaka.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Tax expense continued The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to the profits of the consolidated entities as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Profit before taxation 119,247 402,701 Tax calculated at domestic tax rates applicable to profits in the respective countries 36,849 114,199 Tax effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes non-taxable income 5,483 1,219 Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised 23,660 7,302 Prior year adjustments 8,258 2,391 Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 3,187 33 Tax charge 71,063 117,924 The tax rate in Tanzania is 30% and in South Africa 28% for both years presented.
Tax periods remain open to review by the TRA in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of the corporate tax return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods.
Because a number of tax periods remain open to review by tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the period attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Company has dilutive potential Ordinary Shares in the form of stock options.
The weighted average number of shares is adjusted for the number of shares granted assuming the exercise of stock options.
At 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Earnings Net profit from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 59,471 274,895 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 410,085,499 410,085,499 Adjusted for dilutive effect of: Stock options 10,606 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share 410,085,499 410,096,105 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share from continuing operations cents 14.5 67.0 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations cents 14.5 67.0 13. Dividend The final dividend declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011 of US$53.7 million US13.1 cents per share and the 2012 interim dividend of US$16.4 million US4.0 cents per share were paid during 2012 and recognised in the financial statements.
Refer to Note 34 for details of the final dividend declared subsequent to year-end.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 14.
Cash flow other items a Operating cash flows other items Adjustments for working capital items: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 in thousands of United States dollars Trade and other receivables 14,368 29,356 1 Inventories 59,081 97,873 2 Other current assets 21,259 7,238 3 Other liabilities 1,157 3,924 4 Trade and other payables 8,257 41,833 5 Other working capital items 4,958 5,034 Total 80,336 42,880 1 The inventory adjustment includes the movement in current as well as the non-current portion of inventory.
2 In September 2011, a MOS was agreed with the Tanzanian government regarding the recovery of indirect tax receivable.
The settlement agreement allows for the offset of income taxes payable from the indirect taxes receivable.
During 2012 the Tanzanian government abolished the VAT relief practice resulting in an increase in VAT receivables from the government of US$17.6 million.
3 The other liabilities adjustment includes the movement in both other current and other non-current liabilities but excludes finance lease instalments.
4 The trade and other payables adjustment excludes statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.
5 Other working capital items include exchange losses associated with working capital.
Other non-cash items For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Adjustments for non-cash income statement items: Foreign exchange gains losses net 4,958 5,034 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 4,185 Provision added 6 Loss gain on non-hedge derivatives net 1,719 7,901 Stock option expense 1,461 1,401 Other non-cash items 60 205 Exchange loss on revaluation of cash balances 615 967 Total 3,088 704 b Investing cash flows other items For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Proceeds on sale of property, plant and equipment 4,607 1,602 Other long-term receivables 746 2,103 Village housing receivable 70 145 Rehabilitation expenditure 297 Settlement of long-term liabilities 6,594 3,530 Total 1,468 320 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Inventories As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Raw materials Ore in stockpiles 21,202 56,052 Mine operating supplies 258,214 215,733 Work in process 31,307 30,397 Finished products Gold dor bullion 19,592 9,912 Gold, copper and silver concentrate 5,182 4,853 1 Total current portion of inventory 335,497 316,947 2 Non-current ore in stockpiles 118,554 78,022 Total 454,051 394,969 1 During the year a write-down of inventory to net realisable value was recognised at Tulawaka US$2.7 million.
2 During 2012 US$118.6 million 2011: US$78.0 million of ore at Buzwagi and North Mara was classified as long term following managements assessment that these stockpiles will be processed after 2013.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in the cost of sales amounted to US$198.5 million 2011: US$152.7 million.
Trade and other current assets As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Trade and other receivables: Amounts due from dor and concentrate sales 33,103 21,053 1 Other receivables 12,079 9,157 Due from related parties Note 32 393 354 Less: Provision for doubtful debt on other receivables 1,348 706 Total 44,227 29,858 1 Other receivables relates to supplier backcharge-related and employee receivables.
Trade receivables other than concentrate receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 day terms.
Concentrate receivables are generally on 60-120 day terms depending on the terms per contract.
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers in the ordinary course of business.
If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
The carrying value of trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Other current assets: 2 Current portion of indirect tax receivables 26,023 22,370 3 Other debtors and advance payments 18,291 10,593 Insurance receivable 308 Total 44,314 33,271 2 The total indirect tax receivable is US$98.7 million of which US$72.7 million is included in non-current assets.
This receivable is due from the TRA and it is anticipated to be offset against future corporation tax payments.
To reflect the time value of money the long-term portion of this receivable has been discounted at a rate of 5% 2011: 5%.
3 Other debtors and advance payments relate to prepayments for insurance: income taxes offset against outstanding refunds for VAT and fuel levies and current amounts receivable from the NSSF of US$6.4 million 2011: nil.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 17.
Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Cash at bank and on hand 186,530 252,988 Money market funds 214,818 331,166 Total 401,348 584,154 18.
Property, plant and equipment Mineral properties and mine For the year ended 31 December 2012 Plant and development Assets under 1 in thousands of United States dollars equipment costs construction Total At 1 January 2012, net of accumulated depreciation 894,869765,519 162,8591,823,247 Additions 340,295 340,295 Disposals 4,028 4,028 2 Impairments 16,714 14,016 30,730 Depreciation 99,359 65,501 164,860 Transfers between categories 170,350 121,945 292,295 At 31 December 2012 945,118 807,947 210,859 1,963,924 At 1 January 2012 Cost 1,316,602 1,117,311 162,859 2,596,772 Accumulated depreciation 421,733 351,792 773,525 Net carrying amount 894,869 765,519 162,859 1,823,247 At 31 December 2012 Cost 1,475,374 1,239,256 210,859 2,925,489 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 530,256 431,309 961,565 Net carrying amount 945,118 807,947 210,859 1,963,924 Mineral properties and mine For the year ended 31 December 2011 Plant and development Assets under 1 in thousands of United States dollars equipment costs construction Total At 1 January 2011, net of accumulated depreciation 796,999693,834 124,2851,615,118 Additions 345,235 345,235 Disposals 1,423 1,423 Depreciation 95,336 40,347 135,683 Transfers between categories 194,629 112,032 306,661 At 31 December 2011 894,869 765,519 162,859 1,823,247 At 1 January 2011 Cost 1,125,072 1,005,279 124,285 2,254,636 Accumulated depreciation 328,073 311,445 639,518 Net carrying amount 796,999 693,834 124,285 1,615,118 At 31 December 2011 Cost 1,316,602 1,117,311 162,859 2,596,772 Accumulated depreciation 421,733 351,792 773,525 Net carrying amount 894,869 765,519 162,859 1,823,247 1 Assets under construction represents a sustaining capital expenditures incurred constructing tangible fixed assets related to operating mines and advance deposits made towards the purchase of tangible fixed assets: and b expansionary expenditure allocated to a project on a business combination or asset acquisition, and the subsequent costs incurred to develop the mine.
Once these assets are ready for their intended use, the balance is transferred to plant and equipment, and or mineral properties and mine development costs.
2 The impairment relates to non-current assets at Tulawaka.
Refer to Note 19 for further details.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Property, plant and equipment continued Leases Property, plant and equipment includes assets relating to the design and construction costs of power transmission lines and related infrastructure.
At completion ownership was transferred to TANESCO in exchange for amortised repayment in the form of reduced electricity supply charges.
No future lease payment obligations are payable under these finance leases.
Property, plant and equipment also includes emergency back-up generators leased at Buzwagi mine under a three-year lease agreement, with an option to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease term.
The lease has been classified as a finance lease.
Property, plant and equipment further includes spinning power generators leased at Buzwagi mine under a one-year lease agreement, with an option to extend the lease for 36 months and an option to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease term.
Property, plant and equipment includes two drill rigs purchased under a short-term finance lease.
The drill rigs have been paid in full.
The following amounts were included in property, plant and equipment where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Cost capitalised finance leases 68,846 67,223 Accumulated depreciation 14,603 7,582 Net carrying amount 54,243 59,641 19.
Goodwill and intangible assets Acquired exploration and For the year ended 31 December 2012 evaluation in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill properties Total 1 At 1 January, net of accumulated impairment 178,420 80,093258,513 2 Additions 6,216 27,297 33,513 3 Impairment 13,805 13,805 At 31 December 2012 170,831 107,390 278,221 At 31 December 2012 Cost 401,114 107,390 508,504 Accumulated impairment 230,283 230,283 Net carrying amount 170,831 107,390 278,221 Acquired exploration and For the year ended 31 December 2011 evaluation in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill properties Total At 1 January, net of accumulated impairment 178,420 80,093 258,513 Additions At 31 December 2011 178,420 80,093 258,513 At 31 December 2011 Cost 394,898 80,093 474,991 Accumulated impairment 216,478 216,478 Net carrying amount 178,420 80,093 258,513 1 The Groups opening goodwill arose from Pre-IPO acquisitions by Barrick Gold Corporation and African Barrick Golds acquisition of Tusker Gold Ltd on 27 April 2010.
The goodwill allocated to the Group has been presented as if the Group acquired this business as of the acquisition date.
2 Additions to acquired exploration and evaluation properties and goodwill relate to the acquisition of AMKL and are provisional pending receipt of the final valuation.
3 The annual impairment review resulted in an impairment of US$13.8 million to goodwill in Tulawaka 2011: no impairment charge.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Goodwill and accumulated impairment losses by operating segments: in thousands of United States dollars North Mara Bulyanhulu Tulawaka Other Total At 1 January 2011 21,046 121,546 13,805 22,023 178,420 At 1 January 2012 21,046 121,546 13,805 22,023 178,420 Additions 6,2166,216 Impairments 13,805 13,805 At 31 December 2012 21,046 121,546 28,239 170,831 Cost 237,524 121,546 13,805 28,239 401,114 Accumulated impairments 216,478 13,805 230,283 Annual impairment review In accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets a review for impairment of goodwill was undertaken.
The review compared the recoverable amount of goodwill for each cash generating unit CGU to the carrying value of the CGU including goodwill.
The key economic assumptions used in this review were: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Gold price per ounce US$1,700 US$1,600 South African Rand US$:ZAR 8.00 7.00 Tanzanian Shilling US$:TZS 1,600 1,600 Long-term oil price per barrel US$90 US$90 Discount rates 4.16%-5.66% 5.02%5.96% NPV multiples 0.901.30 1.001.40 The annual goodwill impairment review resulted in an impairment of US$13.8 million to the goodwill of Tulawaka using the methodology and assumptions described above due to a review of Tulawakas mine plan, which resulted in the downward revision of reserves.
Non-current assets are tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, impairment charges of US$30.7 million were recorded for non-current assets at Tulawaka as a result of the short remaining life of the mine, resulting in a total impairment charge of US$44.5 million.
Refer to Note 18 for further details.
For purposes of testing for impairment of non-current assets of the Groups operating mines, a reasonably possible change in the key assumptions used to estimate the recoverable amount could result in an impairment charge.
The carrying value of the net assets of Buzwagi are most sensitive to changes in key assumptions in respect of gold price, cash costs and discount rate.
Based on the assessment of fair value less costs to sell, the recoverable amount exceeds the carrying value by approximately US$165 million 23%.
The calculation is highly sensitive to changes in the key assumptions, and a 5% decrease in the long-term gold price or a 9% increase in cash costs or a 3% increase in discount rate, in isolation, would lead to the recoverable amount of Buzwagi being equal to its carrying amount.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 123 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Tax losses 304,324 218,455 Total 304,324 218,455 The above tax losses which translate into deferred tax assets of approximately US$89 million 2011: US$65 million have not been recognised in respect of these items due to uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, or there being uncertainty regarding future taxable income against which these assets can be utilised.
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Assets Liabilities Net Balance sheet classifications in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Property, plant and equipment 498,790 475,834 498,790 475,834 Provisions 11,244 6,342 11,244 6,342 Interest deferrals 19,494 12,999 562 18,932 12,999 Tusker acquisition 17,313 22,023 17,313 22,023 Aviva acquisition 6,216 6,216 Tax loss carry-forwards 320,968 384,501 320,968 384,501 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 351,706 403,842 522,881 497,857 171,175 94,015 Assets Liabilities Net Legal entities in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 North Mara Gold Mine Ltd 53,958 36,404 53,958 36,404 Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd 383 54,974 383 54,974 Pangea Minerals Ltd 97,807 95,828 97,807 95,828 Other 2,016 555 21,809 17,312 19,793 16,757 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 2,399 55,529 173,574 149,544 171,175 94,015 Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of enquiries raised and additional tax assessments issued by the TRA, have been measured using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach resulting in the recognition of substantially all the related deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Alternative acceptable measurement policies e. g. on a weighted average expected outcome basis could result in a change to deferred tax assets and liabilities being recognised, and the deferred tax charge in the income statement.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries is represented by the contribution of those investments to the Groups retained earnings and amounted to US$134 million 2011: US$141 million.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 21.
Other assets As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 1 Amounts due from government 23,426 28,211 Operating lease prepayments TANESCO powerlines 2,512 2,643 2 Prepayments Acquisition of rights over leasehold land 37,248 14,289 3 Non-current portion of indirect tax receivable 72,655 62,976 Village housing 250 320 Deferred finance charges 1,474 2,219 Total 137,565 110,658 1 Included in this amount are amounts receivable from the NSSF of US$7.3 million 2011: US$12.0 million as well as amounts due from TANESCO of US$10.6 million 2011: US$12.3 million.
2 Prepayment made to the landowners in respect of acquisition of the rights over the use of leasehold land.
3 The non-current portion of the indirect tax receivables has been discounted to its current value using an effective interest rate of 5% 2011: 5%.
This resulted in a discounting charge of US$4.2 million 2011: US$nil to the income statement, refer to Note 8.
22. Business combination On 26 October 2012, the Company, through BUK Holdco Ltd and BUK East Africa Ltd, immediate subsidiaries, purchased 100% of the issued share capital of Aviva Mining Kenya Ltd AMKL by way of a takeover offer for an initial consideration of US$22 million.
AMKL is a Kenyan based exploration company with a focus on gold.
All of AMKLs assets are located in Kenya and consist of exploration ground and interests in two joint venture agreements.
Details of the purchase consideration, the net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: in thousands of United States dollars 2012 Contractual purchase price 20,700 Exploration funding advanced prior to acquisition date 1,340 Contingent consideration 5,312 Total purchase consideration 27,352 The assets and liabilities as of 26 October 2012 recognised as a result of the acquisition are as follows: Acquirees in thousands of United States dollars Fair value carrying amount Cash and cash equivalents 11 Current assets 36 36 Property, plant and equipment 32 32 Exploration intangible asset 27,297 6,576 Liabilities 14 14 Deferred tax 6,216 Fair value of net assets 21,136 6,631 Goodwill 6,216 Total purchase consideration 27,352 Total purchase consideration 27,352 Contingent consideration not yet payable 5,312 Cash and cash equivalent in subsidiary acquired 1 Net cash outflow on acquisition 22,039 The goodwill arose after the application of IAS 12 Income taxes and is attributable principally to expanding growth opportunities in Africa.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The fair value of the acquired identifiable intangible assets, goodwill and deferred tax liability is provisional pending receipt of the final valuations for those assets.
Included in total purchase consideration is the fair value of a contingent consideration payable of US$5.3 million.
This relates to a US$10.4 million payment required to be made to Aviva Corporation upon declaration of a N143-101 compliant indicated resource of at least three million ounces of gold from the mining areas.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 125 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22. Business combination continued Included in exploration and evaluation costs in the consolidated income statement is acquisition costs incurred relating to the Aviva acquisition amounting to US$0.5 million.
Expenses The acquired business contributed expenses of US$1.1 million to the Group for the period from 27 October 2012 to 31 December 2012.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2012, pro-forma consolidated profit for the year ended 31 December 2012 would have been US$47.7 million.
These amounts have been calculated using the Groups accounting policies.
No share movements have taken place in the current year.
Stock-based compensation a Stock options Stock options are granted to Executive Directors and to selected employees.
The exercise price of the granted options is determined by the Compensation committee before the grant of an option provided that this price cannot be less than the average of the middle-market quotation of such shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant.
All options outstanding at the end of the year expire in 2017 and 2018.
723,674 of the options granted were exercisable at 31 December 2012 at an average exercise price of 529 pence per share.
The vesting period of the options is four years, with an exercise period of seven years from the date of grant.
Movements in the number of options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are reflected in pence as follows: 2012 2011 Average exercise Average exercise price in pence price in pence For the year ended 31 December per share Options per share Options At 1 January 524 1,710,628 536 1,221,459 Granted 497 511,669 Forfeited 568 22,500 Expired 568 7,500 At 31 December 524 1,703,128 524 1,710,628 A summary of the awards of the Groups equity-settled stock options at 31 December 2012 is presented below.
Weighted Weighted Weighted average exercise average average fair price in pence remaining value in pence Number per share contractual life per share Awards made in 2011 29 November 511,669 497 6.9 166 Awards made in 2012 None The fair value of each award on the day of grant was estimated using a Lattice valuation approach.
The expected future volatility has been determined by reference to the historical volatility.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information b LTIP Restricted Share Units Included in other non-current liabilities is RSUs with a fair value of US$2.2 million as at 31 December 2012 2011: US$3.5 million.
Number of Fair value RSUs US$000 At 1 January 2011 569,037 7,694 Settled for cash 93,223 4,259 Forfeited 1,121 5 Granted 410,415 109 Credits for dividends 2,894 54 Change in value 116 At 31 December 2011 888,002 3,477 Settled for cash 49,479 2,050 Forfeited 324,766 236 Granted 65,857 55 Credits for dividends 21,803 54 Change in value 929 At 31 December 2012 601,417 2,229 This table shows both the Legacy RSU and RSU plans.
The units granted during the year were solely as part of the RSU plan based on ABG shares.
c LTIP Performance Restricted Share Units Included in other non-current liabilities are PRSUs with a fair value of US$2.5 million as at 31 December 2012 2011: US$0.4 million.
Number of Fair value PRSUs US$000 At 1 January 2011 144,612 109 Granted 389,366 112 Credits for dividends 929 2 Change in value 179 At 31 December 2011 534,907 402 Credits for dividends 15,217 39 Change in value 2,105 At 31 December 2012 550,124 2,546 d LTIP Deferred Share Units Included in other non-current liabilities are DSUs with a fair value of US$0.3 million as at 31 December 2012 2011: US$nil.
Number of Fair value DSUs US$000 At 31 December 2011 Granted 48,283 260 Credits for dividends 272 1 At 31 December 2012 48,555 261 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Trade and other payables As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Trade payables 83,038 55,790 Accrued expenses 43,377 71,357 Payroll-related payables 26,539 19,854 Contract retentions 414 1,056 Royalty payable 3,771 9,438 Income tax payable 431 Trade payables to related parties Note 32 12,765 3,990 Total 169,904 161,916 Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Terms and conditions of the above payables liabilities: Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30-day of statement terms.
Accruals and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of 3060 days.
This expenditure arises at different times over the life of mine for the different mine sites and is expected to be utilised in terms of cash outflows between years 2014 and 2050 and beyond, varying from mine site to mine site.
2 Other provisions relate to provisions for legal and tax-related liabilities where the outcome is not yet certain but it is expected that it will lead to a probable outflow of economic benefits in future.
Rehabilitation obligations arise from the acquisition, development, construction and normal operation of mining property, plant and equipment, due to government controls and regulations that protect the environment on the closure and reclamation of mining properties.
The major parts of the carrying amount of the obligation relate to tailings and heap leach pad closure rehabilitation: demolition of buildings mine facilities: ongoing water treatment: and ongoing care and maintenance of closed mines.
The fair values of rehabilitation provisions are measured by discounting the expected cash flows using a discount factor that reflects the credit-adjusted risk-free rate of interest.
We prepare estimates of the timing and amount of expected cash flows when an obligation is incurred.
We update expected cash flows to reflect changes in facts and circumstances.
The principal factors that can cause expected cash flows to change are: the construction of new processing facilities: changes in the quantities of material in reserves and a corresponding change in the life of mine plan: changing ore characteristics that impact required environmental protection measures and related costs: changes in water quality that impact the extent of water treatment required: and changes in laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment.
Each period we assess cost estimates and other assumptions used in the valuation of the rehabilitation provision at each of our mineral properties to reflect events, changes in circumstances and new information available.
Changes in these cost estimates and assumptions are recorded as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the corresponding asset.
Rehabilitation provisions are adjusted to reflect the passage of time accretion calculated by applying the discount factor implicit in the initial fair value measurement to the beginning-of-period carrying amount of the provision.
Settlement gains losses will be recorded in other income expense.
Other environmental remediation costs that are not rehabilitation provisions are expensed as incurred.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 27.
Other liabilities As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Finance lease liabilities 14,133 18,217 Employee benefit RSU liability 5,036 3,879 1 Other 8,784 3,472 Total 27,953 25,568 Current portion 6,889 6,580 Non-current portion 21,064 18,988 1 Included in other liabilities is the contingent consideration liabilities recognised in the current year on the acquisition of Aviva Mining Kenya Limited US$5.3 million and the 2010 acquisition of Tusker Gold Ltd US$3.5 million.
Finance lease liabilities are capitalised at an effective interest rate of 5% per annum.
The lease terms are three and four years, with purchase options at the end of the term.
Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Gross finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments: No later than 1 year 4,645 4,711 Between 1 and 3 years 10,487 13,113 Between 3 and 5 years 2,380 15,132 20,204 Future finance charges on finance leases 999 1,987 Present value of finance lease liabilities 14,133 18,217 As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Present value of finance lease liabilities: No later than 1 year 4,030 3,862 Between 1 and 3 years 10,103 12,028 Between 3 and 5 years 2,327 Present value of finance lease liabilities 14,133 18,217 28.
Financial assets and liabilities a Financial assets Carrying value Fair value in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents 401,348 584,154 401,348 584,154 Trade and other receivables 44,227 29,858 44,227 29,858 Derivative financial instruments 2,674 4,263 2,674 4,263 Total other assets 181,879 143,929 181,879 143,929 Total financial assets 630,128 762,204 630,128 762,204 Less: Current financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 401,348 584,154 401,348 584,154 Trade and other receivables 44,227 29,858 44,227 29,858 Derivative financial instruments 2,207 4,050 2,207 4,050 Other current assets 44,314 33,271 44,314 33,271 Total other non-current financial assets 138,032 110,871 138,032 110,871 The fair value of financial assets, excluding other assets, equal their carrying amount as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Included in other assets are indirect tax receivables from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority, which have been discounted to their present value, refer to Note 16 and Note 21.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 129 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Financial assets and liabilities continued b Financial liabilities Carrying value Fair value in thousands of Unites States dollars 2012 2011 2012 2011 Derivative financial instruments 723 114 723 114 Trade and other payables 169,904 161,916 169,904 161,916 Other liabilities 27,953 25,568 27,953 25,568 Total 198,580 187,598 198,580 187,598 Less: Current financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 429 58 429 58 Trade and other payables 169,904 161,916 169,904 161,916 Other current liabilities 6,889 6,580 6,889 6,580 Total non-current portion of financial liabilities 21,358 19,044 21,358 19,044 Other liabilities relate to cash-settled share-based plans and their valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
Also included in other liabilities are the finance lease liabilities and their valuation is based on observable market data.
Derivative financial instruments are valued based upon inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active or either directly or indirectly based on observable markets data.
Revolving credit facility On 24 November 2010, the Group concluded negotiations with a syndicate of commercial banks, led by Citibank, for the provision of a revolving credit facility in a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million.
The facility has been provided to service the general corporate needs of the Group and to fund potential acquisitions.
All provisions contained in the credit facility documentation have been negotiated on normal commercial and customary terms for such finance arrangements.
The term of the facility was extended to 2014 and when drawn the spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
At 31 December 2012, none of the funds were drawn under the facility.
The shares of all significant subsidiaries have been pledged as security for the loan.
Costs associated with the revolving credit facility have been included in finance expenses.
Financial risk management The Group has exposure to the following risks through its commercial and financial operations: a market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks: b credit risk: and c liquidity risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Board of Directors has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit committee.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information a Market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as commodity prices, foreign exchange rates or interest rates will affect the Groups income or the value of its financial instruments.
Gold price The market price of gold is one of the most significant factors in determining the profitability of the Groups operations.
The price of gold is subject to volatile price movements over short periods of time, especially in the current market environment, and is affected by numerous industry and macro-economic factors that are beyond the Groups control.
In 2012 the price ranged from US$1,540 to US$1,790 per ounce, with an average market price of US$1,669 per ounce 2011: US$1,572 per ounce.
The Groups policy is to sell gold at prevailing market prices.
The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market price on gold.
The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in the Groups profit after tax for the year or, where applicable, the change in equity.
The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price changes by 10% with all other variables held constant.
The impact of a similar change in copper and silver is not material to the Groups profit after tax.
Effect on profit after tax For the year For the year ended ended Gain loss associated with 10% increase decrease from year-end price 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Gold 69,841 78,087 Copper price The market price of copper impacts on co-product revenue included in total revenue and cash costs.
In 2012 the price ranged from US$3.29 to US$3.93 per pound, with an average market price of US$3.61 per pound 2011: US$4.00 per pound and closing at US$3.59 per pound.
Silver price The market price of silver impacts on co-product revenue included in total revenue and cash costs.
In 2012 the silver price ranged from US$26.38 to US$36.91 per ounce, with an average market price of US$31.17 per pound.
In 2011, the Group entered into zero cost collars to manage the impact of copper and silver price fluctuations.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes.
These contracts had maturity dates in 2011, 2012 and 2013.
These transactions are economic hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.
Changes in the fair value of these options are recorded as a component of other income expense in the income statement.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had no copper collar contracts outstanding 2011: 10,582 thousand pounds of collar contracts outstanding containing purchased put and call options with an average strike price of US$3.34 per pound and US$4.84 per pound respectively.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had 24 thousand ounces of silver collar contracts outstanding containing purchased put and sold call options with strike prices of US$31 per ounce and US$55 per ounce respectively 2011: 216 thousand ounces of purchased put and sold call options with average strike prices of US$28 per ounce and US$49 per ounce respectively.
Oil price Diesel fuel is refined from crude oil and is therefore subject to the same price volatility affecting crude oil prices.
During 2011 and 2012 the Group entered into Brent oil option contracts to manage the impact of oil price fluctuations.
In 2012, oil prices traded between US$89 and US$126 per barrel with an average market price of US$112 per barrel.
The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market prices of crude oil.
The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in the Groups profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price changes by US$10 per barrel with all other variables held constant.
The effect on profit after tax before hedging is calculated based on actual consumption for the year and does not address the indirect impact of a change in the oil price on other costs.
Effect on profit after tax For the For the year ended year ended Gain loss associated with US$10 decrease increase from year-end price 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Oil 4,231 3,098 During the year, the Group added 144 thousand barrels of Brent oil three-way option contracts for calendar year 2013.
The designated contracts act as a hedge against variability in market prices, in a pre-defined range, of the cost of future fuel purchases over the next year.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had a total of 234 thousand barrels of Brent crude oil net purchase options outstanding.
All of the contracts mature in 2013.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 131 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Financial risk management continued Each contract consists of sold put options, bought call options and sold call options with average strike prices of US$85 per barrel, US$110 per barrel and US$135 per barrel respectively.
Risks relating to the use of derivatives By using derivatives, in addition to credit risk, we are affected by market risk.
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of a derivative might be adversely affected by a change in commodity prices, interest rates, or currency exchange rates, and that this in turn affects our financial condition.
We manage market risk by establishing and monitoring parameters that limit the types and degree of market risk that may be undertaken.
Foreign currency risk The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different currencies primarily US dollars, Tanzanian Shillings, and South African Rands.
The Group has liabilities that are primarily denominated in US dollars.
The US dollar is the Companys and its subsidiaries functional currency, as well as the Groups presentation currency.
Therefore, transactions in currencies other than the US dollar give rise to foreign currency translation risk.
The Groups primary exposure to this risk arises from direct mine operating costs and corporate administration costs that are transacted in Shillings and Rands, respectively.
Consequently, fluctuations in the US dollar: Shilling Rand exchange rates increase the volatility of cost of sales, corporate administration costs and overall net earnings, which are reported in US dollars.
The vast majority of all direct mining costs and corporate administration costs are denominated and settled in US dollars.
Consequently, the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations on the Groups reported direct mining and corporate administration costs is not significant.
The exchange rates at the end of each financial year are detailed in Note 2g.
Historically, the relationship between the gold price and the value of the Shilling and Rand provide a natural hedge against fluctuations in the exchange rate of these currencies against the US dollar.
Generally, a strengthening of the Shilling Rand, which would cause an increase in reported US dollar operating costs, corresponds with an increase in the US dollar gold price, which results in an increase in reported US dollar revenues.
During 2011 and 2012 the Group entered into Rand US dollar collar contracts to manage the impact of currency fluctuations on Rand-denominated operating and capital expenditures.
In 2012, the Rand traded between R7.40 and R8.90 per US dollar, and averaged R8.20 per US dollar.
During the year the Group added R515 million of Rand collar contracts to hedge forecasted Rand-denominated capital spend in 2012, 2013 and 2014.
Each contract consists of a bought put option and a sold call option with average strike prices of R8.50 and R9.33 respectively 2011: there were no Rand capital hedges outstanding.
The contracts act as a hedge against the variability in the Rand US dollar exchange range over the period.
These contracts are treated as accounting hedges in accordance with IAS 39.
Hedged items are identified as the first stated quantity of Rand spent during the month.
Hedge effectiveness is assessed using regression analysis utilising the concept of the hypothetical derivative method.
The effective portion of changes in intrinsic value of the currency contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income until the forecasted expenditure impact occurs.
During the year the Group also added US$56 million of Rand collar contracts to hedge forecasted Rand denominated operating expenditures.
The transactions are economic hedges, and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.
Changes in fair value of these options are recorded as a component of other income expense in the income statement.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had US$57 million of Rand collar contracts outstanding containing purchased put options and sold call options with average strike prices of R8.31 and R9.26 respectively 2011: US$63 million of Rand collar contracts with purchased put and sold call options with average strike prices of R8.10 and R9.10 respectively.
The Group does have significant financial assets denominated in a currency other than US dollars.
These financial assets are as follow: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Indirect tax receivables denominated in Tanzanian Shillings 98,678 85,347 Total 98,678 85,347 132 www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The following sensitivity analyses give the estimated effect of a reasonably possible change in the full year closing US dollar exchange rate on the value of the financial assets.
Effect on profit after tax For the For the year ended year ended Increase decrease associated with 10% change of the US dollar as at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Increase decrease associated with 10% change of the US dollar US dollar strengthens by 10% to the Tanzanian Shilling Increase in total indirect tax receivables 10,964 9,483 US dollar weakens by 10% to the Tanzanian Shilling Decrease in total indirect tax receivables 8,971 7,759 Interest rate risk Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk on its cash and cash equivalents.
At present, available funds are held with financial institutions at variable rates and primarily denominated in US dollars, interest income is not materially affected by changes in short-term interest rates.
The amount of interest expense recorded in the Groups consolidated income statement is not materially impacted by changes in short-term interest rates, due to the Groups low levels of interest-bearing debt at present.
If drawn, the revolving credit facilitys spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
Group debt levels are impacted by the amount of operating cash flow generated by its operating mines, as well as capital expenditure requirements related to existing operations and development projects.
The Group currently has no interest rate hedging in place as the interest income is not materially affected by changes in short-term interest rates.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a third party might fail to fulfil its performance obligations under the terms of a financial instrument.
For cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, credit risk represents the carrying amount on the balance sheet, net of any overdraft positions.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, and deposits with banks, as well as trade and other receivables.
The Groups financial assets are held with counterparties whom the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating.
Location of credit risk is determined by physical location of the bank branch, customer or counterparty.
The maximum allowable term of maturity for any individual security is three months.
Investment counterparties must have a credit rating of at least Baa1 or better by Moodys Investor Services or BBB by Standard and Poors.
No more than 25% of the aggregate market value of the investment portfolio is maintained in any one country, with the exception of the United States of America or the United Kingdom, or in any one industry group.
Investments are held mainly in United States dollars.
Cash and cash equivalents in other foreign currencies are maintained for operational requirements.
With respect to other receivables, the most significant debtor is the TRA.
Throughout the past three years, ABG has been actively involved in discussions with the Tanzanian government and the TRA to resolve the status of fuel excise levies and VAT refunds for its operations.
These issues have been outstanding for some time and were further complicated by amendments made to certain tax laws which were passed in 2009.
The amendments conflicted with certain provisions contained in the Groups existing Mineral Development Agreements MDAs which guarantee the fiscal stability of its operations.
The government has adopted legislation to reverse the amendments, which should allow for the fiscal and tax terms of our MDAs to be honoured.
As at 31 December 2012, the discounted outstanding amounts due to the Group were approximately US$98.7 million.
During the third quarter of 2011, the Group signed a MOS with the TRA to address the treatment of certain outstanding indirect tax refunds in respect of fuel levies and value added taxation.
The terms of the Memorandum of Settlement allow ABG to offset income tax payable against outstanding refunds for VAT and fuel levies as it becomes payable.
As a result of these changes, Tulawaka and Buzwagi will effectively be treated as two separate entities for tax purposes, with effect from 2007.
Further detail is included in Notes 16, 21 and 31b.
Group policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterpartys failure to honour its obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored with trade customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each of the counterparties.
The Groups financial assets are with counterparties who the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating.
During the year, receivables to the value of US$149 million were advanced by a financial institution under a factoring agreement.
This agreement reduces the risk of default of receivables.
Maximum exposure to credit risk at each reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets in Note 28.
The Group does not hold collateral as security for any trade receivables.
The Group does not grade the credit quality of receivables.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 133 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Financial risk management continued c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk of loss from not having access to sufficient funds to meet both expected and unexpected cash demands.
The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by ensuring that its operating and strategic liquidity levels are well above minimum internal requirements.
Prudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash balances, and the availability of funding from an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
At the end of both 2012 and 2011 the Group was in a positive net cash position, as disclosed in Note 17.
Details of the undrawn revolving credit facility are given in Note 28.
In the ordinary course of business, the Group receives cash proceeds from its operations and is required to fund working capital and capital expenditure requirements.
The cash is managed to ensure surplus funds are invested to maximise returns while ensuring that capital is safeguarded to the maximum extent possible by investing only with financial institutions with a strong credit rating.
Insignificant uncommitted overdraft facilities are maintained with several banking counterparties to meet the Groups normal funding requirements.
The Groups primary source of liquidity is operating cash flow, and over the past two years the Group has generated an average of about US$378 million per year.
The principal risk factor affecting operating cash flow is market gold prices.
The principal uses of liquidity are sustaining capital expenditures at existing operating mines, construction activities at development projects, and interest payments.
Sustaining capital expenditures have averaged about US$153 million per year over the past two years.
The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial assets into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances may not agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
For the year ended 31 December 2012 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Cash and cash equivalents 401,348 401,348 Accounts receivable 44,227 44,227 Derivative financial instruments 2,207 467 2,674 Other receivables 44,314 18,824 122,926 186,064 Total 492,096 19,291 122,926 634,313 For the year ended 31 December 2011 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Cash and cash equivalents 584,154 584,154 Accounts receivable 29,858 29,858 Derivative financial instruments 4,050 213 4,263 Other receivables 33,271 80,326 30,332 143,929 Total 651,333 80,539 30,332 762,204 The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
For the year ended 31 December 2012 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Derivative liabilities 429 294 723 Other liabilities 6,889 12,280 8,784 27,953 1 Trade and other payables 169,904 169,904 Total 177,222 12,574 8,784 198,580 For the year ended 31 December 2011 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Derivative liabilities 58 56 114 Other liabilities 6,580 13,188 5,800 25,568 Trade and other payables 161,485 161,485 Total 168,123 13,244 5,800 187,167 1 Trade and other payables exclude statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash flow from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from settlement of current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
Capital risk management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio to support its business and provide financial flexibility in order to maximise shareholder value.
In order to ensure a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and is approved by the Senior Leadership Team before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
Operating lease arrangements For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the period 2,197 1,736 Total 2,197 1,736 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Within one year 4,137 1,442 In the second to fifth years inclusive 7,733 3,701 After five years 691 1,188 Total 12,561 6,331 Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of office space by regional business units of the Group.
Commitments and contingencies The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group has the following commitments and or contingencies: a Legal contingencies As at 31 December 2012, the Group was a defendant in approximately 235 lawsuits.
The plaintiffs are claiming damages and interest thereon for the loss caused by the Group due to one or more of the following: unlawful eviction, termination of services, wrongful termination of contracts of service, non-payment for services, defamation, and negligence by act or omission in failing to provide a safe working environment, unpaid overtime and public holiday compensation.
The total amounts claimed from lawsuits in which specific monetary damages are sought amounted to US$51.6 million.
The Groups Legal Counsel is defending the Groups current position, and the outcome of the lawsuits cannot presently be determined.
However, in the opinion of the Directors and Groups Legal Counsel, no material liabilities are expected to materialise from these lawsuits.
Consequently no provision has been set aside against the claims in the books of account.
Included in the total amounts claimed of US$51.6 million is an appeal by the TRA intended for the tax assessment of US$21.3 million in respect of the acquisition of Tusker.
The case was awarded in favour of ABG however the TRA have served a notice of appeal.
The calculated tax assessment is based on the sales price of Nyanzaga property of US$71 million multiplied by the tax rate of 30%.
Management are of the opinion that the assessment is invalid due to the fact that the acquisition was for Tusker Gold Limited, a company incorporated in Australia.
The shareholding of the Tanzanian related entities did not change and the Tusker Gold Limited Group remains the same as prior to the acquisition.
Also included in the total amounts claimed of US$51.6 million is a claim of US$2.8 million against North Mara Gold Mine being compensation for uncaused improvements, disturbance and accommodation allowance, rich gold land current value, interest and costs.
Management are of the opinion that the defence is likely to succeed.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Commitments and contingencies continued b Other tax-related contingencies i.
On 26 October 2009, the TRA issued a demand notice against the Group for an amount relating to withholding tax on technical services provided to Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd.
The claim amounts to US$5.4 million.
Management is of the opinion that the Group complied with all of the withholding tax requirements, and that there will be no amount payable.
Therefore no provision has been raised.
The TRA has issued a number of tax assessments to the Group relating to past taxation years from 2002 onwards.
The Group believes that these assessments are incorrect and has filed objections to each of them.
The Group is attempting to resolve these matters by means of discussions with the TRA.
Management is of the opinion that this will not result in any material liabilities to the Group.
c Exploration and development agreements Mining Licences Pursuant to agreements with the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, the Group was issued Mining Licences for Bulyanhulu, Buzwagi, North Mara and Tulawaka mines and Mining Licenses for building materials at Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi Mines.
The agreement requires the Group to pay to the Government of Tanzania annual rents of US$5,000 per annum per square kilometre for as long as the Group holds the Special Mining Licences and US$2,000 per annum per square kilometre for so long as the Group holds the Mining Licences for Building Materials.
The total commitment for 2013 based on Mining Licences held as at 31 December 2012 is US$0.8 million 2011: US$0.8 million.
d Purchase commitments At 31 December 2012, the Group had purchase obligations for supplies and consumables of approximately US$65 million 2011: US$31 million.
e Capital commitments In addition to entering into various operational commitments in the normal course of business, the Group entered into contracts for capital expenditure for approximately US$51 million 2011: US$32 million.
Related party balances and transactions The Group had the following related party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011.
Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by BGC, which is the ultimate controlling party of the Group.
Transactions with related parties are as follows: a Transactions For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Provision of goods and services 273 507 Purchase of goods and services 10,177 8,426 Dividend payments 51,822 20,924 Total 61,726 28,843 Provision and purchase of goods and services to from related parties are on normal commercial terms and conditions.
Provision of services relates to cost incurred by the Group and recharged to related parties.
Purchase of goods and services relates to cost incurred by related parties and recharged to the Group.
Services purchased relate mainly to insurance and software licences.
Goods purchased relate mainly to consumables and capital equipment.
b Balances due from related parties As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Due from fellow subsidiaries: Placer Dome Exploration 247 247 Placer Dome Technical Services 37 37 Other 109 70 Total 393 354 The receivables are unsecured in nature and bear no interest.
There are no provisions held against receivables from BGC.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information c Balances due to related parties As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Due to Holding Company: Barrick Gold Corporation 11,962 3,638 Due to fellow subsidiaries: BIBC 15 3 Barrick Gold Australia Ltd 293 Barrick Gold North America 188 203 Other 307 146 Total 12,765 3,990 The payables to Barrick arise mainly from purchase transactions noted above.
The payables are unsecured and bear no interest.
d Remuneration of key management personnel Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Senior Leadership Team who receive remuneration.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors was as follows: For the For the year ended 31 year ended December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2012 2011 Short-term employee benefits 8,724 10,647 Post-employment benefits 746 1,103 Other long-term benefits Stock-based compensation 1,029 2,114 Total 10,499 13,864 33.
Prospecting licences The Group holds exploration mineral rights in the United Republic of Tanzania.
These rights are held in the form of prospecting licences issued by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals and are held either directly by the Group or indirectly pursuant to third party agreements.
The licences held by the Group as at 31 December 2012 are summarised in the following table.
The total commitment to exploration expenditure on these licences for 2013 is US$2.5 million.
Number of Approximate Prospecting licences licences Km Held by ABG Exploration Africa Limited 105 1,296.80 Held by Mkumi Exploration Ltd 2 18.20 Held by North Mara Gold Mine Ltd 5 57.87 Held by Nyanzaga Exploration Company Ltd 5 91.52 Held by Pangea Minerals Ltd 80 743.94 Held by Prime Gold Exploration Ltd 3 42.82 Held by Sub-Sahara Resources Tanzania Ltd 2 15.34 Held by Vulcan Resources Tanzania Ltd 15 237.26 1 Prospecting licences indirectly held 7 29.70 Total 224 2,533.45 1 Via exploration joint venture with third parties.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Post balance sheet events A final dividend of US12.3 cents per share has been proposed, which will result in a total dividend of US16.3 cents per share for 2012.
The final dividend is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 18 April 2013.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
ABG announced on 22 January 2013 that it concluded negotiations with a syndicate of commercial banks, led by Standard Bank, for the provision of an export credit backed term loan facility Facility for the amount of US$142 million.
The Facility has been put in place to fund the bulk of the costs of the construction of one of our key growth projects, a new Carbon in Leach circuit at the process plant at Bulyanhulu Project.
The Facility is secured upon the Project, has a term of seven years and when drawn the spread over LIBOR will be 250 basis points.
The Facility is repayable in equal instalments over the term of the Facility, after a two-year repayment holiday period.
Subsequent to year end, a legal claim was instituted against ABG in relation to the termination of a lease agreement in Dar es Salaam.
The plaintiffs claim payment of US$11.4 million purportedly being rent for the remainder of the lease period, rent that they would have received from other prospective tenants, costs incurred for alterations made on ABGs instructions and general damages.
ABG announced on 8 January 2013 that Barrick had ended discussions with CNG over the potential sale of its 73.9% stake in ABG.
As a result, ABG is no longer in an Offer Period under the Takeover Code.
Management has initiated a full Operational Review with the aim of recalibrating operations so as to drive improved returns from the asset base whilst enhancing the certainty of delivery and initial detail on specific initiatives has been provided within these results.
