The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity E-communications of the corporate and financial information included on the Shareholders have previously passed a resolution to enable Companys website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the the Company to make documents or information available preparation and dissemination of financial statements may to members on the website or by electronic means.
If any differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
shareholder who has received a printed copy of this Annual Report would prefer to receive future communications by Directors responsibility statement electronic means, they may elect to do so by contacting pursuant to DTR4 the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Jersey Limited contact Each of the directors at the date of this report, whose names details can be found in the Shareholder information section and functions are listed on page 44 confirm that, to the best at the back of this report or by registering at of their knowledge: www.
Governance Employee share plans t The Group financial statements in this report, which have The Company operates a number of all-employee share plans been prepared in accordance with International Financial and discretionary share plans.
Details can be found in the Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Directors remuneration report on pages 62 to 64.
Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC Statement of directors responsibilities interpretations, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and result of the Company and The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law whole: and and regulations.
The Companies Jersey Law 1991 Law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each t The management report contained in this report includes financial period in accordance with generally accepted a fair review of the development and performance of the accounting principles prescribed for the purposes of the Law business and the position of the Company and the for market traded companies.
The financial statements of the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as Company are required by law to give a true and fair view of, or a whole, together with a description of the principal risks be presented fairly in all material respects so as to show, the and uncertainties that they face.
state of affairs of the Company at the end of the period covered Disclosure of information to the auditor by the accounts and of the profit or loss of the Company The directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, the directors should: there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys t Select suitable accounting policies and then apply auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps them consistently: that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the t Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable Companys auditors are aware of that information.
and prudent: t Specify which generally accepted accounting principles have been followed in their preparation: and t Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping accounting records which are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and are such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements prepared by the Company comply with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
69 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
