Financial statements Section 7: Employee benefits continued 7.3 Share-based payments The Group maintains seven share-based payment schemes.
Awards granted in three of these schemes have exercise prices Executive Share Option Scheme and the UK and International Save As You Earn Option Schemes.
Awards granted by the other four schemes are nil cost options Bonus Investment Plan, Executive Retention Plan, Performance Share Plan and Medium Term Incentive Plan.
Accounting policy Equity-settled transactions The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to all grants of equity instruments made after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the grant date of the equity instruments granted.
The fair value is measured by an external advisor using the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo methods as appropriate, and takes into account any market vesting conditions or non-vesting conditions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised as an expense, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the periods in which the vesting conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition or a non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting as described below.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
No expense or increase in equity is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions i. e. vesting conditions are satisfied.
When an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation.
Any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of the entity or the employees are not met.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
Share-based payments Statement of Income statement financial position 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Equity settled 5.5 5.0 Cash settled 0.6 0.8 0.6 0.7 6.1 5.8 0.6 0.7 Share-based payments continuing 5.8 5.5 Share-based payments discontinued 0.3 0.3 Cash settled relates to shares under the BIP which may be deferred at the option of the employee and which is treated as cash-settled liability at 31 December 2012 until the actual deferral amount is known.
