Independent auditors report to the members of UBM plc We have audited the Group financial statements of UBM plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 8.3.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and our engagement letter dated 28 February 2011.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 69, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In addition, the Company has also instructed us to: report to you our opinion on whether the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements: review the directors statement in relation to Going Concern as set out on page 41, which for a premium listed incorporated company is specified for review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority: and review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration, which for a premium listed UK incorporated company are specified for review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
73 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
