Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 121 Statement of accounting policies for the Company accounts Statement of accounting policies for the Company accounts A summary of the Companys principal accounting policies, which has continued to apply United Kingdom accounting standards, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year and preceding year in the separate financial information presented for the Company, are set out below: Basis of accounting The Company accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
No profit and loss account is presented for the Company, as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys retained profit for the year is disclosed in note 45.
Fixed assets and depreciation Tangible fixed assets are shown at original historical cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years Taxation UK Corporation tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Temporary differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements.
These arise from including gains and losses in tax assessments in different periods from those recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing difference can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not discounted.
Retirement benefit costs The Company provides pensions to its employees and Directors through defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The schemes are funded and their assets are held independently of the Group by trustees.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account for defined benefit schemes is the estimated regular cost of providing the benefits accrued in the period adjusted to reflect variations from the cost.
The regular cost is calculated so that it represents a substantially level percentage of current and future pensionable payroll.
Any difference between the amount charged to the profit and loss account and contributions paid to the pension scheme is shown as a separately identifiable liability or asset in the balance sheet.
Certain employees and Directors participated in the UK defined benefit scheme operated by Ultra Electronics Limited.
Paragraph 9 b of FRS 17 allows for a defined benefit scheme to be accounted for as a defined contribution scheme where there are multi-employers and one employer is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis.
The Ultra Electronics Limited defined benefit scheme has been accounted for on this basis.
The deficit in the scheme at 31 December 2012 was 82.0 million 2011: 81.0 million.
Further disclosures in relation to this pension scheme are given in note 31 to the Group financial statements.
Payments to defined contribution retirement schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Going concern The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the statement on Corporate Governance on page 56.
Introduction 122 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Statement of accounting policies for Company accounts Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at the actual exchange rates at the date of the transactions or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange contract.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account.
Share-based payments The Company issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of an option pricing model, using the assumptions disclosed within the Group accounts in note 27.
Related parties The Company has taken the FRS 8 revised exemption from disclosure of transactions between wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Remuneration of the Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 65 and 66.
Loans and overdrafts Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs where there is a facility commitment.
In these circumstances issue costs are deducted from the value of the loan and amortised over the life of the commitment.
Where there is no facility commitment, issue costs are written-off as incurred.
Finance charges including premiums payable on settlement or redemption are accounted for on an accruals basis in profit or loss using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
