ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Annual accounts Directors responsibility statement The Directors are required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the CivilCode Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of his or in the Netherlands and the UK Companies Act 2006 to prepare her knowledge: accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view The financial statements which have been prepared in of the state of affairs ofthe Unilever Group, and the NV and PLC accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards entities, as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or as adopted by the EU and as issued by the International loss and cash flows for that year.
Accounting Standards Board in the case of the consolidated financial statements and UK accounting standards in the The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, theGroup case of the PLC parent company accounts and UK accounting and the NV and PLC entities have used the most appropriate standards and Part 9 ofBook 2 of the Dutch Civil Code in the accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by case of the NV parent company accounts, give a true and fair reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss all International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by of the Group and theNV and PLC entities taken as a whole: and the EU andas issued by the International Accounting Standards The Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the Board inthecase of the consolidated financial statements, UK development and performance of the business and the position accounting standards in the case of the parent company accounts ofthe Group and the NV and PLC entities taken as a whole, and Dutch law in the case of the NV parent company accounts together with a description of the principal risks and which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC The Directors and their roles are listed on pages 42 and 49. keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy their financial position and which enable the Directors to ensure Going concern that the accounts comply with the relevant legislation.
They The activities of the Group, together with the factors likely to also have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are affect its future development, performance, the financial position reasonably open tothem to safeguard the assets of the Group, of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing and to prevent and detectfraud and other irregularities.
facilities are described inAbout Unilever and the Financial review 2012 on pages 2 to 35.
In addition, we describe in notes 15 to 18 This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the on pages 112 to 124 the Groups objectives, policies and processes Auditors reports, ismade with a view to distinguishing for for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its andoftheauditors in relation to the accounts.
exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
A copy of the financial statements of the Unilever Group is The Group has considerable financial resources together with placedonour website at www.
established business relationships with many customers and The maintenance and integrity of the website are the responsibility suppliers in countries throughout the world.
As a consequence, of the Directors, and the work carried out by the auditors does not the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its involve consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors business risks successfully despite the current uncertain outlook.
accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially placed on the After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable website.
Legislation in the UK and the Netherlands governing the expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, from legislation in other jurisdictions.
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing this Annual Report andAccounts.
UK law sets out additional responsibilities for the Directors of PLC regarding disclosure of information to auditors.
Disclosure Internal and disclosure controls and procedures in respect of these responsibilities is made on page 143.
Please refer to pages 36 to 40 for a discussion of Unilevers principal risk factors and to page 41 for commentary on the Groups approach to risk management and control.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements 83 AUDITORS REPORT NETHERLANDS Independent auditors report We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
To: the General Meeting of Shareholders of Opinion with respect to the consolidated financial statements Unilever N. V. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Unilever Group as at Report on the consolidated financial statements 31December 2012, and of its result and its cash flows for the year We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting statements 2012 as set out on pages 86 to 131 which are part Standards as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012 of the Unilever Group International Accounting Standards Board and with Part 9 of Book for the year ended 31 December 2012, which comprise the 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes Separate report on company accounts in equity, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash flow We have reported separately on the company accounts of Unilever statement and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, N. V. for the year ended 31 December 2012. comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Pursuant to the legal requirement under Section 2: 393 sub 5 Directors responsibility at eand f of the Dutch Civil Code, we have no deficiencies to The Directors are responsible for the preparation and fair report as a result of our examination whether the Report of the presentation of these consolidated financial statements in Directors, to the extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of this Code, and whether the adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International information as required under Section 2: 392 sub 1 at b-h has Accounting Standards Board and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the been annexed.
Further we report that the Report of the Directors, Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report of the to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the consolidated Directors in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil financial statements as required by Section 2: 391 sub 4 of the Code.
Furthermore, the Directors are responsible for such Dutch CivilCode.
internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Amsterdam, 5 March 2013 Auditors responsibility  Accountants N. V. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit R A J Swaak RA in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing.
This requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the companys preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
84 Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AUDITORS REPORT UNITED KINGDOM Independent auditors report Opinion on financial statements to the members of Unilever PLC In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for We have audited the group financial statements of Unilever the year then ended: Group for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement as adopted by the European Union: and of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of in equity, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash flow the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
statement, and the related notes on pages 86 to 131.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards As explained in note 1 to the group financial statements, the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 83, the Directors are responsible In our opinion the group financial statements comply with IFRSs for the preparation of the group financial statements and for being as issued by the IASB.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group financial statements in Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 accordance with applicable law and International Standards on In our opinion, the information given in the Directors Report set Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply out on pages 142 and 143 for the financial year for which the group with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Matters on which we are required to report by exception Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other We have nothing to report in respect of the following: purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom in our opinion: this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations Scope of the audit of the financial statements we require for our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements sufficient to give Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free the Directors statement, set out on page 83, in relation to from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
going concern: This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and parent companys compliance with the nine provisions of the have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board the Directors: and the overall presentation of the group financial on Directors remuneration.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts 2012 to identify Other matters material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements statements of Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
John Baker Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 5 March 2013 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements 85
