OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 97 Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Report and the financial statements in accordance with integrity of the corporate and financial information included applicable law and regulations.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements may differ from legislation in other financial statements for each financial year.
the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Directors Responsibility Statement Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Standards and Applicable Law.
Under company law the Company and the undertakings included in the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are consolidation taken as a whole: and satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 2. the management report, which is incorporated into the affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Directors report, includes a fair review of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial development and performance of the business and the statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires position of the Company and the undertakings included that Directors: in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a properly select and apply accounting policies: description of the principal risks and uncertainties that present information, including accounting policies, in a they face.
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: By order of the Board provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, MS Mehta other events and conditions on the entitys financial Chief Executive Officer position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
DD Jalan Chief Financial Officer The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 16 May 2012 accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
