OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 105 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Presentation of Financial Statements Compliance with Applicable Law and IFRS The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and related interpretations.
Basis of Preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, available-for-sale financial assets, xed rate bonds and dened benefit pension obligations that have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to one decimal of the nearest million except where otherwise indicated.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IAS 1 amended Financial statement  of items of other comprehensive income IAS 12 amended Deferred Tax:Recovery of underlying assets IAS 19 revised Employee benets IAS 27 revised Separate financial statements IAS 28 revised Investments in associates and joint ventures IAS 32 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities IFRS 7 amended Financial instruments:Disclosures IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements IFRS 11 Joint arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities IFRS 13 Fair value measurement IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine.
We have not yet considered the quantitative impact of adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRIC 20.
Going Concern The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the going concern basis of accounting.
The use of this basis of accounting takes into consideration the Groups current and forecast nancing position, additional details of which are provided in the Going Concern section of the Directors Report.
Parent Company Financial Statements The financial statements of the parent company, Vedanta Resources plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, UK accounting presentation and UK company law.
The Company balance sheet is presented in Note 43.
2 a Accounting Policies Basis of Consolidation Subsidiaries: The consolidated financial information incorporates the results of the Company and all its subsidiaries, being the companies that it controls.
This control is normally evidenced when the Group is able to govern a companys financial and operating policies so as to benefit from its activities or where the Group owns, either directly or indirectly, the majority of a companys equity voting rights unless in exceptional circumstances it can be demonstrated that ownership does not constitute control.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with accounting policies used by the Group.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, a share of the profit for the financial year and net assets is attributed to the non-controlling interests as shown in the consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet.
For acquisitions of additional interests in subsidiaries, where there is no change in control, the Group recognises a reduction to the non-controlling interest of the respective subsidiary with the difference between this gure and the cash paid, inclusive of transaction fees, being recognised in equity.
In addition, upon dilution of non-controlling interests the difference between the cash received from sale or listing of the subsidiary shares and the increase to non-controlling interest is also recognised in equity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 106 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 a Accounting Policies continued Joint Ventures: A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control such that significant operating and financial decisions require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group has: Jointly controlled assets JCAs :The Group in its oil and gas business participates in several unincorporated joint ventures which involve the joint control of assets used in oil and gas exploration and producing activities.
The Group accounts for its share of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of joint ventures in which the Group holds an interest, classied in the appropriate balance sheet and income statement headings.
In addition, where the Group acts as operator to the joint venture, the gross liabilities and receivables including amounts due to or from non-operating partners of the joint venture are included in the Group balance sheet.
Restatement The prior year balance sheet has been restated to give effect to the fair value adjustments to provisional fair values and business combination accounting relating to acquisition of Zinc International entities for the year ending 31 March 2011 Note 34.
Adoption of New and Revised Standards In the Current Financial Period the Group Has Adopted the Following New Standards: The Group has adopted with effect from 1 April 2011, the following new and revised standards and interpretations.
Their adoption has not had any impact on the amounts reported in the financial statements.
IAS 24 2009 Related Party Disclosures The revised standard has a new, clearer denition of a related party.
The adoption of the amendment did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement The amendments now enable recognition of an asset in the form of prepaid minimum funding contributions.
The adoption has no effect on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Other amendments to accounting standards or new interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, which were applicable from 1 April 2011, do not have an impact on the Group.
Revenue Recognition Revenue represents the net invoice value of goods and services provided to third parties after deducting discounts, volume rebates, outgoing sales taxes and duties, and are recognised when all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset sold are transferred to the customer.
Certain of our sales contracts provide for provisional pricing based on the price on the London Metal Exchange Limited LME, as specified in the contract, when shipped.
Final settlement of the prices is based on the applicable price for a specified future period.
The Companys provisionally priced sales are marked to market using the relevant forward prices for the future period specified in the contract with a corresponding adjustment to revenue.
Crude oil prices are based on Brent index.
Revenue from oil, gas and condensate sales represent the Groups share of oil, gas and condensate production, recognised on a direct entitlement basis, and tariff income received for third party use of operating facilities and pipelines in accordance with agreements.
Revenue from holding certicate contracts is recognised when goods have been delivered to a distribution warehouse or has been identied and kept separately, have been inspected by a nominee of the buyer and cash has been received.
Under these arrangements, revenue is recognised once legal title has passed and all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset sold are transferred to the customer.
Revenues from sale of material by-products are included in revenue.
Dividend income is recognised when the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis in the income statement.
Special Items Special items are those items that management considers, by virtue of their size or incidence, should be disclosed separately to ensure that the financial information allows an understanding of the underlying performance of the business.
The determination as to which items should be disclosed separately requires a degree of judgement.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 107 2 a Accounting Policies continued Business Combinations The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are consolidated for the periods from, or to, the date on which control passed.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase method.
The acquirers identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
To the extent that such excess purchase consideration relates to the acquisition of mining properties and leases, that amount is capitalised within property, plant and equipment as mining properties and leases.
To the extent that such excess purchase consideration relates to the acquisition of oil and gas properties, that amount is capitalised within property, plant and equipment as exploratory and evaluation assets.
Other excess purchase consideration relating to the acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised as goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is reviewed for impairment annually.
Where the fair values of the identiable assets and liabilities exceed the cost of acquisition, the surplus is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Where it is not possible to complete the determination of fair values by the date on which the first post-acquisition financial statements are approved, a provisional assessment of fair values is made and any adjustments required to those provisional fair values, and the corresponding adjustments to purchased goodwill, are nalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net assets or proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
This accounting choice is made on a  basis.
Acquisition expenses are charged to the income statement in line with IFRS 3 revised 2008.
Property, Plant and Equipment Relating to Mineral Assets Mining Properties and Leases Exploration and evaluation expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
The costs of mining properties and leases, which include the costs of acquiring and developing mining properties and mineral rights, are capitalised as property, plant and equipment under the heading Mining properties and leases in the year in which they are incurred.
When a decision is taken that a mining property is viable for commercial production, all further pre-production primary development expenditure other than land, buildings, plant and equipment is capitalised as part of the cost of the mining property until the mining property is capable of commercial production.
From that point, capitalised mining properties and lease costs are amortised on a unit-of-production basis over the total estimated remaining commercial reserves of each property or group of properties.
Exploration and evaluation assets acquired are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition subject to meeting the commercial production criteria mentioned above and are subject to impairment review.
Stripping costs and secondary development expenditure, mainly comprising costs on blasting, haulage, excavation, etc, incurred during the production stage of an ore body are charged to the income statement immediately.
In circumstances where a mining property is abandoned, the cumulative capitalised costs relating to the property are written off in the period.
Commercial reserves are proved and probable reserves as dened by the JORC Code and SAMREC Code.
Changes in the commercial reserves affecting unit of production calculations are dealt with prospectively over the revised remaining reserves.
Relating to Oil and Gas Assets Exploration & Evaluation Assets and Developing Producing Assets For oil and gas assets we follow successful efforts based accounting policy.
Costs incurred prior to obtaining the legal rights to explore an area are expensed immediately to the income statement.
Expenditure incurred on the acquisition of a licence interest is initially capitalised on a licence-by-licence basis.
Costs are held, un-depleted, within exploration and evaluation assets until such time as the exploration phase on the licence area is complete or commercial reserves have been discovered.
Exploration expenditure incurred in the process of determining oil and gas exploration targets is capitalised initially within property, plant and equipment exploration and evaluation assets and subsequently allocated to drilling activities.
Exploration drilling costs are initially capitalised on a well-by-well basis until the success or otherwise of the well has been established.
The success or failure of each exploration effort is judged on a well-by-well basis.
Drilling costs are written off on completion of a well unless the results indicate that hydrocarbon reserves exist and there is a reasonable prospect that these reserves arecommercial.
com 108 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 a Accounting Policies continued Following appraisal of successful exploration wells, if commercial reserves are established and technical feasibility for extraction demonstrated, then the related capitalised exploration costs are transferred into a single eld cost centre within property, plant and equipment development producing assets after testing for impairment.
Where results of exploration drilling indicate the presence of hydrocarbons which are ultimately not considered commercially viable, all related costs are written off to the income statement.
All costs incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of producing hydrocarbons has been demonstrated are capitalised within property, plant and equipment development producing assets on a eld-by-eld basis.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only where it either enhances the economic benets of the development producing asset or replaces part of the existing development producing asset.
Any remaining costs associated with the part replaced are expensed.
Net proceeds from any disposal of an exploration asset are initially credited against the previously capitalised costs.
Any surplus proceeds are credited to the income statement.
Net proceeds from any disposal of development producing assets are credited against the previously capitalised cost.
A gain or loss on disposal of a development producing asset is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the net proceeds exceed or are less than the appropriate portion of the net capitalised costs of theasset.
Other Property, Plant and Equipment The initial cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price, including import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, and any directly attributable costs of bringing an asset to working condition and location for its intended use, including relevant borrowing costs and any expected costs of decommissioning.
Expenditure incurred after the property, plant and equipment have been put into operation, such as repairs and maintenance, are charged to the income statement in the period in which the costs are incurred.
Major shut-down and overhaul expenditure is capitalised as the activities undertaken improve the economic benets expected to arise from the asset.
Assets in the Course of Construction Assets in the course of construction are capitalised in the assets under construction account.
At the point when an asset is operating at managements intended use, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
Costs associated with the commissioning of an asset and any obligatory decommissioning costs are capitalised where the asset is available for use but incapable of operating at normal levels until a period of commissioning has been completed.
Revenue generated from production during the trial period is capitalised.
Borrowing costs and certain foreign exchange gains or losses are in certain circumstances capitalised in the cost of the asset under construction.
This policy is set out under Borrowing Costs.
Depreciation and Amortisation Mining properties and other assets in the course of development or construction, freehold land and goodwill are not depreciated or amortised.
Capitalised mining properties and lease costs are amortised once commercial production commences, as described in Property, plant and equipment mining properties and leases.
Leasehold land and buildings are depreciated over the period of the lease or if shorter their useful economic life.
Relating to Oil and Gas Assets All expenditure carried within each eld is amortised from the commencement of production on a unit of production basis, which is the ratio of oil and gas production in the period to the estimated quantities of commercial reserves at the end of the period plus the production in the period, generally on a eld-by-eld basis or group of elds which are reliant on common infrastructure.
Commercial reserves are proven and probable oil and gas reserves, which are dened as the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical and engineering data demonstrate with a specified degree of certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and which are considered commercially producible.
There should be a 50% statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable reserves will be more than the amount estimated as proven and probable reserves and a 50% statistical probability that it will be less.
Costs used in the unit of production calculation comprise the net book value of capitalised costs plus the estimated future eld development costs required to access commercial reserves.
Changes in the estimates of commercial reserves or future eld development costs are dealt with prospectively.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 109 2 a Accounting Policies continued Other buildings, plant and equipment, office equipment and xtures, and motor vehicles are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Buildings: Operations 30 years Administration 50 years Plant and equipment 1030 years Office equipment and xtures 320 years Motor vehicles 911 years Major overhaul costs are depreciated over the estimated life of the economic benefit derived from the overhaul.
The carrying amount of the remaining previous overhaul cost is charged to the income statement if the next overhaul is undertaken earlier than the previously estimated life of the economic benefit.
Property, plant and equipment held for sale or which is part of a disposal Group held for sale is not depreciated.
Property, plant and equipment held for sale is carried at the lower of its carrying value and fair value less disposal cost and is presented separately on the face of the balance sheet.
Impairment The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable and the carrying amount of goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually.
If there are indicators of impairment, an assessment is made to determine whether the assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
Whenever the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is charged to the income statement.
The Group reviews the residual value and useful life of an asset at least at each financial year-end and, if expectations differ from previous estimates, the change is accounted for as a change in accounting estimate.
For mining properties and leases, oil and gas assets, other investments and goodwill, the recoverable amount of an asset is determined on the basis of its value in use, being the present value of estimated future cash ows expected to arise from the continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life, discounted using a market-based, risk-adjusted, discount rate.
For other property, plant and equipment, the recoverable amount of an asset is also considered on the basis of its net selling price, where it is possible to assess the amount that could be obtained from the sale of an asset in an arms length transaction, less the cost of disposal.
Recoverable amounts are estimated for individual assets or, if this is not possible, for the relevant cash-generating unit.
Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations Non-current assets are classied as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is highly probable from the date of classication, management are committed to the sale and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Non-current assets are classied as held for sale from the date these conditions are met and are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any resulting impairment loss is recognised in the income statement as a special item.
On classication as held for sale the assets are no longer depreciated.
Government Grants Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income statement over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Other grants are credited to the income statement as and when the related expenditure is incurred.
com 110 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 a Accounting Policies continued Inventories Inventories and work-in-progress are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, less any provision for obsolescence.
Cost is determined on the following bases: purchased copper concentrate is recorded at cost on a first-in, first-out FIFO basis: all other materials including stores and spares are valued on a weighted average basis: nished products are valued at raw material cost plus costs of conversion, comprising labour costs and an attributable proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal levels of activity: and by-products and scrap are valued at net realisable value.
Net realisable value is determined based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion anddisposal.
Taxation Tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Exceptions to this principle are: Tax payable on the future remittance of the past earnings of subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: Deferred income tax is not recognised on goodwill impairment which is not deductible for tax purposes or on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority upon a specic entity and the relevant Group entity intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on acquisitions that are categorised as Business Combinations.
Deferred tax is recognised at acquisition as part of the assessment of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired.
Any deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement as the underlying temporary difference is reversed.
Retirement benefit Schemes The Group operates or participates in a number of dened benets and contribution schemes, the assets of which are where funded held in separately administered funds.
For dened benefit schemes the cost of providing benets under the plans is determined each year separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method by independent qualied actuaries.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are recognised in full in the income statement of the year.
For dened contribution schemes, the amount charged to the income statement in respect of pension costs and other postretirement benets is the contributions payable in the year.
Share-based Payments Certain employees including Executive Directors of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured at fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting conditions are determined by an external valuer and the fair value at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date at which point the estimate is adjusted to reect the current expectations.
No adjustment is made to the fair value after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 111 2 a Accounting Policies continued Provisions for Liabilities and Charges Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outow of resources, that can be reliably estimated, will be required to settle such an obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows to net present value using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specic to the liability.
Unwinding of the discount is recognised in the income statement as a finance cost.
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are adjusted to reect the current best estimate.
Restoration, Rehabilitation and Environmental Costs An obligation to incur restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs arises when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of a mine or oil elds.
Costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to net present value, are provided for and a corresponding amount is capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These costs are charged to the income statement over the life of the operation through the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the discount on the provision.
The cost estimates are reviewed periodically and are adjusted to reect known developments which may have an impact on the cost estimates or life of operations.
The cost of the related asset is adjusted for changes in the provision due to factors such as updated cost estimates, new disturbance and revisions to discount rates.
The adjusted cost of the asset is depreciated prospectively over the lives of the assets to which they relate.
The unwinding of the discount is shown as a finance cost in the income statement.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage which is caused on an ongoing basis during production are provided for at their net present values and charged to the income statement as extraction progresses.
Where the costs of site restoration are not anticipated to be significant, they are expensed as incurred.
Operating Leases Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
Finance Leases Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the income statement, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups policy on borrowing costs.
The Group has reviewed the terms and conditions of the lease arrangements and determined that all risks and rewards of ownership lie with the Group and has therefore accounted for the contracts as finance leases.
Foreign Currency Translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For all principal operating subsidiaries, the functional currency is the local currency of the country in which it operates, except KCM and Cairn where the functional currency is US dollars, since that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
In the financial statements of individual Group companies, transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rates ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies are translated into the functional currency at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences are included in the income statement, except, where the monetary item is designated as an effective hedging instrument of the currency risk of designated forecast sales, where exchange differences are recognised in equity exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings relating to assets under construction, for future productive use, which are included in the cost of those assets when they are regarded as an adjustment to interest costs on those foreign currency borrowings.
For the purposes of consolidation, the income statement items of those entities for which the US dollar is not the functional currency are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange during the period.
The related balance sheets are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net assets and results of such operations, and on foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in such operations, are reported in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.
On disposal of entities with a different functional currency to the Companys functional currency, the deferred cumulative exchange differences recognised in equity relating to that particular operation would be recognised in the income statement.
com 112 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 a Accounting Policies continued Financial Asset Investments Financial asset investments are classied as available for sale under IAS 39 and are initially recorded at cost and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses on financial asset investments are recognised directly in equity.
On disposal or impairment of the investments, the gains and losses in equity are recycled to the income statement.
Investments in unquoted equity instruments that do not have a market price and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are measured at cost.
Investments in equity instruments are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be sold within one year.
Liquid Investments Liquid investments represent short-term current asset investments that do not meet the denition of cash and cash equivalents for one or more of the following reasons: They have a maturity prole greater than 90 days.
They may be subject to a greater risk of changes in value than cash.
They are held for investment purposes.
The change in fair value of trading investments incorporates any dividend and interest earned on the held for trading investments.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand, short-term deposits with banks and shortterm highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into cash which are subject to insignicant risk of changes in value and are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments.
Trade Receivables Trade receivables are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
An allowance for impairment for trade receivables is made where there is an event, which based on previous experience, is an indication of a reduction in the recoverability of the carrying value of the trade receivables.
Trade Payables Trade payables are stated at their nominal value.
Equity Instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowings Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis and charged to the income statement using the effective interest method.
They are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Convertible Bonds Convertible bonds denominated in the functional currency of the issuing entity are accounted for as compound instruments.
The equity components and the liability components are separated out on the date of the issue.
The equity component is recognised in a separate reserve and is not subsequently remeasured.
The liability component is held at amortised cost.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the effective interest rate, being the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt.
The difference between this amount and interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the liability component.
Convertible bonds not denominated in the functional currency of the issuing entity or where a cash conversion option exists, are split into two components:a debt component and a component representing the embedded derivative in the convertible bond.
The debt component represents a liability for future coupon payments and the redemption on the principal amount.
The embedded derivative, a financial liability, represents the value of the option that bond holders have to convert into ordinary shares.
At inception the embedded derivative is recorded at fair value and the remaining balance, after deducting a share of issue costs, is recorded as the debt component.
Subsequently, the debt component is measured at amortised cost and the embedded derivative is measured at fair value at each balance sheet date with the change in the fair value recognised in the income statement.
The embedded derivative and the debt component are disclosed together and the current non-current classication follows the classication of the debt component which is the host contract.
The deferred tax effect arising on the movement in the fair value of the embedded derivative is provided in the income statement.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 113 2 a Accounting Policies continued Borrowing Costs Borrowing costs directly relating to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying capital project under construction are capitalised and added to the project cost during construction until such time that the assets are substantially ready for their intended use in accordance with the Group policy which is when they are capable of commercial production.
Where funds are borrowed specically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred.
Where surplus funds are available out of money borrowed specically to finance a project, the income generated from such short-term investments is also capitalised to reduce the total capitalised borrowing cost.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Available for Sale Financial Assets Listed equity shares and debt instruments held by the Group that are traded in an active market are classied as being available for sale AFS financial assets and are stated at fair value.
Dividends received from investees accounted for as equity instruments are recognised in income statement when the Group receives the dividends.
Held for Trading Financial Assets Financial assets are classied as held for trading if they have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term.
The change in fair value of trading investments incorporates any dividend and interest earned on the held for trading investments and is accounted for in the income statement.
Held-to-maturity Financial Assets Financial instruments with xed or determinable payments and xed maturity dates that the Group has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classied as held-to-maturity investments.
Held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Derivative Financial Instruments In order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity price risks, the Group enters into forward contracts, option contracts, swap contracts and other derivative financial instruments.
The Group does not hold derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at their fair value on the date of the derivative transaction and are remeasured at their fair value at subsequent balance sheet dates.
Hedge Accounting The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives and non-derivatives in respect of foreign currency risk, as either fair value hedges or cash ow hedges.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement.
The hedged item is recorded at fair value and any gain or loss is recorded in the income statement and is offset by the gain or loss from the change in the fair value of the derivative.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges are recorded in equity.
This includes certain non-derivative liabilities that are designated as instruments used to hedge the foreign currency risk on future, highly probable, forecast sales.
Amounts deferred to equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
The gain or loss on hedging instruments relating to the effective portion of a net investment hedge is recognised in equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains or losses accumulated in the equity are included in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operations to which they relate.
Derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market at the balance sheet date and gains or losses are recognised in the income statement immediately.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the year.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
com 114 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 b Critical Accounting Judgement and Estimation Uncertainty In the course of applying the policies outlined in Note 2 a, management made estimations and assumptions that impact the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Vedanta believes that judgement and estimation has been made in the following areas: Oil and Gas Reserves Oil and gas reserves are estimated on a proved and probable entitlement interest basis.
Proven and probable reserves are estimated using standard recognised evaluation techniques.
The estimate is reviewed at least twice annually and is regularly reviewed by independent consultants.
Future development costs are estimated taking into account the level of development required to produce the reserves by reference to operators, where applicable, and internal engineers.
Net entitlement reserves estimates are subsequently calculated using the Groups current oil price and cost recovery assumptions, in line with the relevant agreements.
Changes in reserves as a result of factors such as production cost, recovery rates, grade of reserves or commodity prices could impact the depreciation rates, asset carrying values and environmental and restoration provisions.
Carrying Value of Exploration and Evaluation Fixed Assets Where a project is sufficiently advanced the recoverability of exploration assets are assessed by comparing the carrying value to internal and operator estimates of the net present value of projects.
Exploration assets are inherently judgemental to value and further details on the accounting policy is included in accounting note above.
The amounts for exploration and evaluation assets represent active exploration projects.
These amounts will be written off to the income statement as exploration costs unless commercial reserves are established or the determination process is not completed and there are no indications of impairment.
The outcome of ongoing exploration, and therefore whether the carrying value of exploration and evaluation assets will ultimately be recovered, is inherently uncertain.
Carrying Value of Developing Producing Oil and Gas Assets Management perform impairment tests on the Groups developing producing oil and gas assets at least annually with reference to indicators in IAS 36.
Key assumptions in the impairment models relate to prices that are based on forward curves for two yearsand the long-term corporate assumptions thereafter and discount rates that are risked to reect conditions specic to individual assets.
Other key assumptions in the impairment models based on management expectations are that government approval will be received to further increase production rates and that the Enhanced Oil Recovery programme will be successfully implemented.
Mining Properties and Leases The carrying value of mining property and leases is arrived at by depreciating the assets over the life of the mine using the unit of production method based on proved and probable reserves.
The estimate of reserves is subject to assumptions relating to life of the mine and may change when new information becomes available.
Changes in reserves as a result of factors such as production cost, recovery rates, grade of reserves or commodity prices could thus impact the carrying values of mining properties and leases and environmental and restoration provisions.
Useful Economic Lives and Impairment of Other Assets Property, plant and equipment other than mining properties, oil and gas properties, and leases are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
Management reviews the useful economic lives at least once a year and any changes could affect the depreciation rates prospectively and hence the asset carrying values.
The Group also reviews its property, plant and equipment, including mining properties and leases, for possible impairment if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that carrying values of the assets may not be recoverable.
In assessing the property, plant and equipment for impairment, factors leading to significant reduction in profits such as changes in commodity prices, the Groups business plans are taken into consideration.
The carrying value of the assets of a cash generating unit CGU is compared with the recoverable amount of those assets, that is, the higher of net realisable value and value in use.
Value in use is usually determined on the basis of discounted estimated future cash ows.
This involves management estimates on commodity prices, market demand and supply, economic and regulatory climates, long-term plan, discount rates and other factors.
Any subsequent changes to cash ow due to changes in the above mentioned factors could impact on the carrying value of the assets.
Assessment of Impairment at Lanjigarh Renery As set out in the risks and uncertainties section of this Annual Report, the planned operation of the Lanjigarh Renery is subject to a number of legal proceedings.
It has been assessed that there is no impairment of the Lanjigarh Renery on 31 March 2012 based on the assumptions set out below: The State of Orissa has abundant bauxite reserves and under the terms of its MOU with the State Government of Orissa, management is confident that bauxite will be made available in the short to medium term.
On the continued operation and planned renery expansion, management is confident that the conditions for construction of the alumina renery will be fullled, and expect the approval for the same in due course.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 115 2 b Critical Accounting Judgement and Estimation Uncertainty continued Should one or both of these assumptions not be borne out, a reassessment of the impairment of the Renery would need to be made.
Carrying value as at 31 March 2012 is US$1,519.6 million.
Assessment of Impairment at Tuticorin During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Group was ordered to close the Tuticorin smelter pursuant to an order from the Madras High Court.
The Group has been successful in obtaining stay orders to allow the continued operation of the smelter while an appeal is heard in the Supreme Court.
Carrying value as at 31 March 2012 is US$162 million.
Management is confident that they have complied with the environmental regulations and that they will be permitted to continue operating the Tuticorin smelter in the long term.
Accordingly, they have concluded that no impairment of the asset isrequired.
Assessment of Impairment of Karnataka Mines at Sesa Goa From July 2011 a mining ban was imposed in various parts of the state of Karnataka thereby affecting the Narrain mine owned and operated by Sesa Goa which has a carrying cost of US$314.1 million.
Since the time of the ban the Central Empowered Committee appointed to submit its report in respect of illegal mining has recommended that operations only recommence after reclamation and rehabilitation works are undertaken by the Company, together with a penalty of approximately US$6 million.
Management is confident that having complied with the recommendation of the Central Empowered Committee the ban will be lifted and the Company will be permitted to continue operations.
Accordingly, they have concluded that no impairment of the asset is required.
Restoration, Rehabilitation and Environmental Costs Provision is made for costs associated with restoration and rehabilitation of mining sites and oil elds as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
Such restoration and closure costs are typical of extractive industries and they are normally incurred at the end of the life of the mine.
The costs are estimated on the basis of closure plans and the estimated discounted costs of dismantling and removing these facilities and the costs of restoration are capitalised when incurred reecting our obligations at that time.
A corresponding provision is created on the liability side.
The capitalised asset is charged to the income statement over the life of the asset through depreciation over the life of the operation and the provision is increased each period via unwinding the discount on the provision.
Management estimates are based on local legislation and or other agreements such as the KCM acquisition agreement.
The actual costs and cash outows may differ from estimates because of changes in laws and regulations, changes in prices, analysis of site conditions and changes in restoration technology.
Management estimated that restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs related to the Rajasthan licence area are expected to be incurred in 2040 despite the Production Sharing Agreement expiring in 2020.
The present values of these costs have been accounted for on this basis.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work that result from changes in the estimated timing or amount of the cash ow or a change in the discount rate are added to or deducted from the cost of the related asset in the current period.
If a change in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Management uses its judgement and experience to provide for and amortise these estimated costs over the life of the mine.
As per local legislation, our Indian operations provide for restoration costs in accordance with statutory requirements.
In Australia, appropriate provision has been made in accordance with local legal requirements and at KCM, a provision has been recognised with reference to a plan agreed with the Government of Zambia at the time of KCMs privatisation in April 2000 and pursuant to the KCM acquisition agreement.
In Namibia, South Africa and Ireland appropriate provision has been made in accordance with the local regulatory requirements.
Provisions and Liabilities Provisions and liabilities are recognised in the period when it becomes probable that there will be a future outow of funds resulting from past operations or events that can be reasonably estimated.
The timing of recognition requires the application of judgement to existing facts and circumstances which may be subject to change.
The actual cash outows takes place over many years in the future and hence the carrying amounts of provisions and liabilities are regularly reviewed and adjusted to take into account the changing circumstances and other factors that inuence the provisions and liabilities.
com 116 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 b Critical Accounting Judgement and Estimation Uncertainty continued The HZL and BALCO Call Option The Group had exercised its call option to acquire the remaining 49% interest in BALCO and 29.5% interest in HZL.
The Government of India has however, contested the validity of the options and disputed its valuation details set out in Note 39.
In view of the lack of resolution on the options, the non-response to the exercise and valuation request from the Government of India, the resultant uncertainty surrounding the potential transaction and the valuation of the consideration payable, the Group could not reliably measure the value.
The call options has thus has not been recognised in the financial statements.
Contingencies and Commitments In the normal course of business, contingent liabilities may arise from litigation and other claims against the Company.
Where it is managements assessment that the outcome cannot be reliably quantied or is uncertain the claims are disclosed as contingent liabilities unless the likelihood of an adverse outcome is remote.
Such liabilities are disclosed in the Notes but are not provided for in the financial statements.
Although there can be no assurance regarding the final outcome of the legal proceedings, we do not expect them to have a materially adverse impact on our financial position or profitability.
Segment Information The Groups primary format for segmental reporting is based on business segments.
The business segments consist of zinc, iron ore, copper, aluminium, power and oil and gas with residual components being reported as Others.
Business segment data includes an allocation of certain corporate costs, allocated on an appropriate basis.
The risks and returns of the Groups operations are primarily determined by the nature of the different activities in which the Group is engaged.
Inter-segment sales are charged based on prevailing market prices.
The Groups activities are organised on a global basis.
The Groups reportable segments under IFRS 8 are as follows: Zinc-India Zinc-International Iron Ore Copper-India Australia Copper-Zambia Aluminium Power Oil & gas The Power segment previously referred to as the Energy segment has been reclassied and now comprises power plants at Sterlite Energy, Talwandi Sabo, MALCO and wind power at HZL.
The surplus power sold from captive power plants earlier classied under Energy segment is now included in the respective business segments.
In compliance with IFRS 8, this classication was applied from 1 April 2011 and accordingly, comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2011 has been restated for this change.
Management monitors the operating results of reportable segments for the purpose of making decisions about resources to be allocated and for assessing performance.
Segment performance is evaluated based on the EBITDA of each segment.
During the year ended 31 March 2012, Cairn India was acquired whose business includes exploration, development and production of oil and gas.
Oil & gas has been categorised as a separate reportable segment.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 117 3.
Segment Information continued a Reportable Segments The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups reportable segments for the years ended 31 March 2012 and 2011.
com 118 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 119 3.
Segment Information continued c Geographical Segmental Analysis The Groups operations are located in India, Zambia, Namibia, South Africa, Liberia, Ireland, Australia, UAE and Sri Lanka.
The following table provides an analysis of the Groups sales by geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 India 6,764.9 4,924.4 China 2,819.4 2,157.0 Far East Asia 983.3 1,354.6 UK 23.8 Africa 255.2 172.3 Europe 1,538.4 1,047.3 Middle East 1,030.3 1,068.9 Asia Others 467.8 648.7 Other 146.0 30.2 Total 14,005.3 11,427.2 The following is an analysis of the carrying amount of segment assets, and additions to property, plant and equipment, analysed by the geographical area in which the assets are located: Carrying amount of Additions to property, 1 2 non-current assets plant and equipment As at As at Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 2012 2011 Australia 23.6 15.3 15.0 1.7 India 30,588.2 14,278.1 19,063.5 2,309.2 Zambia 2,082.2 1,786.1 421.8 295.9 Namibia 424.1 578.0 2.8 610.9 Ireland 218.8 275.2 15.8 279.0 South Africa 494.1 569.5 13.5 552.4 Sri Lanka 828.0 828.0 Other 287.7 265.9 207.4 149.9 Total 34,946.7 17,768.1 20,567.8 4,199.0 1 Non-current assets do not include deferred tax assets and derivative receivables.
2 Includes assets acquired on acquisition of Zinc International and Cairn India.
Total Revenue Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Revenue from sales of goods 14,005.3 11,427.2 Other operating income 85.1 73.9 Investment revenue 525.4 431.6 Change in fair value of cash ow hedge transferred to the income statement 55.8 1.6 14,560.0 11,931.1 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 120 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Special Items Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 1 Asarco transaction costs 88.6 Voluntary retirement schemes 21.2 12.5 KCM IPO costs 13.5 2 Acquisition related costs 75.5 32.7 3 Loss on revaluation of previously held interest in associates, net 31.4 4 Impairment of mining properties and leases 118.3 230.2 163.5 1 The Bankruptcy court of the Southern District of Texas, United States Judge had issued the final judgement on 27 February 2012 to pay incidental damages of US$132.7 million net of US$50 million paid to Asarco in December 2009, making Asarco entitled for a net amount of US$82.7 million.
2 Acquisition related costs include costs of US$2.5 million 2011:US$8.5 million related to the acquisition of Anglo Zinc assets and US$73 million 2011: US$24.2million related to Cairn India acquisition.
3 Loss on revaluation of existing carrying value of investment in Cairn India on 8 December 2011 refer Note 34.
4 The impairment of mining properties and leases relates to mines at Sesa Goa operated on a lease basis which have expired and have not been renewed during the year.
Investment Revenue Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Interest income on loans and receivables 31.8 19.7 Interest income on cash and bank balances 157.5 131.6 Change in fair value of financial assets held for trading 83.5 78.8 profit on disposal of financial assets held for trading 170.3 35.4 profit on sale of available-for-sale investment 1.0 5.9 Dividend income on financial assets held for trading 82.7 160.4 Expected return on dened benefit arrangements Note 31 2.0 2.1 Foreign exchange loss on cash and liquid investments 1.5 0.5 Capitalisation of interest income 1.9 1.8 525.4 431.6 7.
Finance Costs Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Interest on bank loans, overdrafts and bonds 718.1 365.7 Coupon interest on convertible bonds Note 26 138.6 138.6 Accretive interest on convertible bond 115.0 101.8 Interest on other loans 177.9 97.3 Total interest cost 1,149.6 703.4 Unwinding of discount on provisions Note 28 11.5 7.9 Interest on dened benefit arrangements Note 31 9.4 6.7 1 Capitalisation of borrowing costs Note 16 224.8 183.3 945.7 534.7 1 All borrowing costs are capitalised using rates based on specic borrowings.
Other Gains and Losses Net Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Exchange losses gains on borrowings and capital creditors 407.8 75.9 Qualifying borrowing costs capitalised Note 16 68.8 11.0 Change in fair value of financial liabilities measured at fair value 1.2 0.4 Change in fair value of embedded derivative on convertible bonds Note 26 97.1 188.4 Loss arising on qualifying hedges and non-qualifying hedges 71.1 1.6 314.2 252.1 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 121 9. profit for the Year has been Stated after Charging Crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 1,408.4 869.0 Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 4,655.4 4,218.3 Auditors remuneration for audit services 2.8 1.5 Research and development 1.0 0.7 Staff costs 542.7 446.9 Impairment of mining property and leases 118.3 Net foreign exchange losses gains 438.7 76.2 10.
Auditors Remuneration The table below shows the fees payable globally to the Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, for statutory external audit and audit related services, as well as fees paid to other accountancy rms for statutory external audit and audit related services in each of the two years ended 31 March: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of Vedanta Resources plc annual accounts 0.8 0.6 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 2.0 0.9 Total audit fees 2.8 1.5 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group 1 Other services pursuant to legislation 1.7 0.7 4 Tax services 0.3 0.1 2 Corporate finance services 4.9 5.4 3 Other services 0.3 0.3 Total non-audit fees 7.2 6.5 Total fees paid to the Companys auditor 10.0 8.0 Audit fees payable to other auditors of the Groups subsidiaries 0.2 0.1 Non-audit fees payable to other auditors of the Groups subsidiaries 0.2 0.1 Total fees paid to other auditors 0.4 0.2 1 Other services pursuant to legislation principally comprise further assurance services, being quarterly reviews of the Groups listed Indian subsidiaries and the half year review of the Groups results.
2 Corporate finance services principally comprise reporting accountant services relating to the raising of equity and debt and Cairn India acquisition.
These assurance-related services are ordinarily provided by the auditor.
4 Tax services principally comprise certication and assurance services as required by Indian income tax regulations.
Employee Numbers and Costs Average Number of Persons Employed by the Group in the Year Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March Class of business 2012 2011 Zinc 8,330 7,341 India 6,480 5,494 International 1,850 1,847 Iron ore 4,710 4,346 Copper 10,009 10,976 India Australia 1,191 1,414 Zambia 8,818 9,562 Aluminium 7,487 8,168 Power 343 220 1 Oil & gas 1,144 Other 156 120 32,179 31,171 1 Acquired during the year ended 31 March 2012.
com 122 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
Employee Numbers and Costs continued Costs Incurred During the Year in Respect of Employees and Executive Directors Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Salaries and wages 477.9 434.7 Dened contribution pension scheme costs Note 31 23.1 22.3 Dened benefit pension scheme costs Note 31 21.5 29.3 Share-based payments charge 20.2 18.6 542.7 504.9 12.
Tax Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Current tax: UK Corporation tax Foreign tax India 754.0 689.4 Australia 16.0 21.3 Africa and Europe 41.7 18.7 Other 10.6 822.3 729.4 Deferred tax: Note 29 Current year movement in deferred tax 305.6 79.9 305.6 79.9 Total tax expense 516.7 649.5 Effective tax rate 29.6% 24.2% The deferred tax benefit recycled from equity to the income statement is US$5.7 million 2011:US$10.6 million.
Deferred Tax Recognised in the Income Statement: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Accelerated capital allowances 130.4 14.4 Unutilised tax losses 44.8 32.8 Other temporary differences 130.4 32.7 305.6 79.9 No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries is represented by the contribution of those investments to the Groups retained earnings and amounted to US$5,290.2 million 2011:US$3,966.1 million.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 123 12.
Tax continued A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to accounting profit before tax at the Indian statutory income tax rate to income tax expense at the Groups effective income tax rate for the year ended 31 March 2012 is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Accounting profit before tax 1,745.4 2,683.3 At Indian statutory income tax rate of 32.45% 2011:32.45% 566.4 891.4 Unrecognised tax losses 333.6 141.4 Disallowable expenses 79.3 67.1 Non-taxable income 119.1 83.7 Impact relating to changes in tax rate 65.0 21.9 Tax holiday and similar exemptions 416.1 334.6 Minimum Alternative Tax 11.7 7.0 Adjustments in respect of previous years 4.1 17.2 At effective income tax rate of 29.4% 2011:24.2% 516.7 649.5 13.
Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year adjusted for the effects of dilutive options and the Groups convertible bonds.
The following reects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 59.8 770.8 Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million except as stated 2012 2011 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share million 272.7 272.2 Effect of dilution: 1 Convertible bonds 34.3 Share options 4.4 2.2 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 277.1 308.7 1 During the year ended 31 March 2012, the adjustment in respect of convertible bonds has an anti-dilutive impact on the number of shares and earnings and is thus not considered for determining diluted EPS.
a Earnings per share based on profit for the year Basic earnings per share on the profit for the year Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million except as stated 2012 2011 profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent US$ million 59.8 770.8 Weighted average number of shares of the Company in issue million 272.7 272.2 Earnings per share on profit for the year US cents per share 21.9 283.2 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 124 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13.
Earnings Per Share continued Diluted Earnings Per Share on the profit for the Year Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million except as stated 2012 2011 profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent US$ million 59.8 770.8 Adjustment in respect of convertible bonds of Vedanta US$ million 63.4 profit for the year after dilutive adjustment US$ million 59.8 834.3 Adjusted weighted average number of shares of the Company in issue million 277.1 308.7 Diluted earnings per share on profit for the year US cents per share 21.6 270.2 During the year ended 31 March 2012, 62,294 options issued under the long-term incentive plan were converted to equity shares pursuant to vesting and exercise of the options 2011:738,248 options.
profit for the year would be increased if holders of the convertible bonds in Vedanta exercised their right to convert their bond holdings into Vedanta equity.
The impact on profit for the year of this conversion would be the reduction in interest payable on the convertible bond net of any amount capitalised.
This has been taken into account in determining diluted EPS.
The outstanding awards under the LTIP are reected in the diluted EPS gure through an increased number of weighted averageshares.
Earnings Per Share Based on Underlying profit for the Year The Groups Underlying profit is the profit for the year after adding back special items, other gains and losses Note 8 and their resultant tax and non-controlling interest effects, as shown in the table below: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million Note 2012 2011 profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 59.8 770.8 Special items 5 230.2 163.5 Other losses gains 314.2 252.1 Tax and non-controlling interest effect of special items and other losses gains 217.0 33.1 Underlying profit for the year 387.2 715.3 Basic earnings per share on Underlying profit for the year Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million except as stated 2012 2011 Underlying profit for the year US$ million 387.2 715.3 Weighted average number of shares of the Company in issue million 272.7 272.2 Earnings per share on underlying profit for the year US cents per share 142.0 262.8 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 125 13.
Earnings Per Share continued Diluted Earnings Per Share on Underlying profit for the Year Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million except as stated 2012 2011 Underlying profit for the year US$ million 387.2 715.3 Adjustment in respect of convertible bonds of Vedanta US$ million 63.4 Underlying profit for the year after dilutive adjustment US$ million 387.2 778.7 Adjusted weighted average number of shares of the Company million 277.1 308.7 Diluted earnings per share on Underlying profit for the year US cents per share 139.8 252.3 14.
Dividends Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders: Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 201011:32.5 US cents per share 200910:27.5 US cents per share 89.2 75.2 Interim dividend paid during the year:20 US cents per share 201011:20 US cents per share 54.9 54.7 144.1 129.9 Proposed for approval at AGM Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 201112:35 US cents per share 201011:32.5 US cents per share 96.0 89.2 15.
Goodwill Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Cost gross carrying amount 16.9 16.9 1 Acquisition 4.4 Accumulated impairment losses 4.7 4.7 Net carrying amount at 31 March 16.6 12.2 1 Goodwill on acquisition of Goa Energy Private Limited GEPL during the year ended 31 March 2012.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The Company has undertaken an impairment review of goodwill of US$12.2 million as at 31 March 2012.
The carrying amount of goodwill was evaluated using the discounted future cash ows of the entity to which the goodwill pertains and comparing this to the total carrying value of the cash generating unit.
It was determined that the carrying amount of goodwill is not impaired.
com 126 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16.
Other tangible xed assets include office equipment and xtures, and light vehicles.
At 31 March 2012, land with a carrying value of US$101.2 million 31 March 2011:US$144.3 million was not depreciated.
During the year ended 31March 2012, cumulative capitalised interest and foreign exchange gains capitalised was US$293.6 million 31 March 2011:US$194.3 million.
Additions to Exploratory and Evaluation assets include acquisition of assets of Western Cluster Limited.
2 Prior year restated to give effect to adjustments to provisional fair values Note 34.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 127 17.
Financial Asset Investments Financial asset investments are required to be classied and accounted for as either available-for-sale or fair value through profit or loss.
Available-for-sale Investments Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 At 1 April 304.2 201.2 Additions 4.1 46.6 Movements in fair value 92.1 55.3 Exchange difference 6.6 1.1 At 31 March 209.6 304.2 Analysis of Financial Asset Investments Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Quoted 179.0 265.2 Unquoted 30.6 39.0 Quoted investments represent investments in equity securities that present the Group with opportunity for return through dividend income and gains in value.
These securities are held at fair value based on market prices.
Unquoted investments include mainly an investment in the equity share capital of the Andhra Pradesh Gas Power Corporation Limited which is held at cost as it is not quoted.
Other Non-current Assets As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Deposits, advances and other receivables due after one year 122.3 24.6 122.3 24.6 19.
Inventories As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Raw materials and consumables 863.3 1,011.9 Work-in-progress 677.3 690.9 Finished goods 163.5 221.8 1,704.1 1,924.6 Inventories with a carrying amount of US$999.5 million 2011:US$1,112.2 million have been hypothecated or pledged as security against certain bank borrowings of the Group.
com 128 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Trade and Other Receivables As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Trade receivables 888.4 761.4 Amounts due from related parties Note 38 13.8 13.6 Prepayments 79.5 93.4 Deposits with governments 101.8 141.9 Other receivables 712.4 327.6 1,795.9 1,337.9 The credit period given to customers ranges from zero to 90 days.
Other receivables primarily include excise balances, customs balances, advances to suppliers, claims receivables and other receivables.
Liquid Investments As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Bank deposits 1,985.4 1,929.0 Other investments 2,954.9 4,936.4 4,940.3 6,865.4 Bank deposits are made for periods of between three months and one year depending on the cash requirements of the companies within the Group and earn interest at the respective deposit rates.
Other investments include mutual fund investments and are fair valued through the income statement.
Liquid investments donot qualify for recognition as cash and cash equivalents due to their maturity period and risk of change in value of theinvestments.
Cash and Cash Equivalents As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Cash at bank and in hand 264.2 238.5 1 Short-term deposits 1,680.8 673.1 1,945.0 911.6 1 Includes US$89.9 million 2011:US$96.3 million of cash held in short-term deposit accounts that is restricted in use as it relates to unclaimed deposits, dividends, interest on debentures, share application money, closure costs and future redundancy payments.
Short-term deposits are made for periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Borrowings As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Bank loans 11,464.9 5,654.9 Bonds 2,876.3 1,244.7 Other loans 323.9 581.4 Total 14,665.1 7,481.0 Borrowings are repayable as: Within one year shown as current liabilities 4,151.6 3,045.1 More than one year 10,513.5 4,435.9 Total 14,665.1 7,481.0 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 129 23.
Borrowings continued At 31 March 2012, the Group had available US$2,897.3 million 2011:US$3,407.6 million of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
The principal loans held by Group companies at 31 March 2012 were as follows: BALCO Non-convertible Debentures BALCO issued Non-convertible Debentures of US$97.7 million to the Life Insurance Corporation of India at a rate of 12.25% per annum.
The debentures are secured and have the first pari passu charge on the xed assets of the Company including land and buildings.
The above loan is repayable in three yearly equal instalments starting November 2013.
Project Buyers Credit As at 31 March 2012, BALCO has extended credit terms relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment of US$348.3 million at an average interest rate of six month LIBOR plus 200 basis points.
Project buyers credit has an average maturity of May2013.
External Commercial Borrowings BALCO has obtained an External Commercial Borrowing loan from State Bank of India, London of US$200 million at an interest rate of six month LIBOR plus 260 basis points secured by first pari passu charges on all the xed assets excluding land of BALCO, projects of the Company both present and future along with secured lenders.
The repayment period is from August 2016 to August 2018.
VAL Rupee Term Loan VAL has taken a US$2,119 million rupee loan from State Bank of India at a oating interest rate of 12.25%, secured by a first priority charge by way of hypothecation of all present and future unencumbered and encumbered movable xed assets for the project and second charge on the current assets of the Company for the project.
Non-convertible Debentures VAL has issued Non-convertible Debentures of US$78 million to the Life Insurance Corporation of India at a rate of 11.5% per annum.
The debentures are secured and have the first pari passu charge over the identied assets including land and building of the issuer to the extent of 1.33 times the issued amount.
Debentures are repayable in three yearly equal instalments starting October 2013.
External Commercial Borrowing VAL has obtained an External Commercial Borrowing loan from ICICI Bank, Singapore of US$100 million at an interest rate of LIBOR plus 240 basis points secured by negative lien undertaking on the assets of the Jharsuguda project of the Company, both present and future, excluding assets already charged in favour of ICICI bank and other lenders.
The repayment period is from February 2012 to August 2014.
As at 31 March 2012 the amount outstanding is US$90 million.
VAL has obtained an External Commercial Borrowing loan from Axis Bank of US$500 million at an interest rate of LIBOR plus 400 basis points secured by negative lien undertaking on the assets of the Jharsuguda project of the Company, both present and future, excluding assets already charged in favour of ICICI bank and other lenders.
The repayment is to be made in three equal instalments starting from April 2015.
Project Buyers Credit As at 31 March 2012, VAL had extended credit terms relating to purchases of property, plant and equipment amounting to US$683 million.
These loans bear average interest at LIBOR plus 264 basis points.
These are secured by all of the xed assets ofVAL, immovable or movable, present and future, on a pari passu basis with other term lenders and with priority over othercreditors.
As on 31 March 2012, average maturity of project buyers credit of US$580 million and US$103 million is December 2012 and October 2012 respectively.
Sterlite Energy Project Buyers Credit As at 31 March 2012, SEL has extended credit terms relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment of US$62 million at an average rate of LIBOR plus 196 basis points.
As on 31 March 2012, average maturity of project buyers credit is July 2012.
Commercial Papers During the period under consideration, SEL has issued commercial paper to various asset management companies for funding project payable.
As on 31 March 2012 outstanding balance is US$406 million bearing coupon rate of 10.3%.
com 130 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23.
Borrowings continued Talwandi Sabo Non-convertible Debentures Talwandi Sabo has issued Non-convertible Debentures of US$291 million to ICICI Bank at a rate of 9.8% per annum.
The debentures are secured by first pari passu charge on the assets of the Company both present and future, with a minimum asset cover of 1.25 times during the lifetime of the NCDs including the Debt Service Reserve Account and unconditional and irrevocable corporate guarantee by Sterlite Industries.
Debentures have a tenure of 13 years repayable in 12 equal instalments after 10 years of allotment.
Project Buyers Credit As at 31 March 2012, Talwandi Sabo has availed extended credit terms relating to the purchase of capital goods of US$366 million at an average rate of six month LIBOR plus 232 basis points.
As on 31 March 2012, average maturity of project buyers credit is November 2013.
KCM In 2009 KCM obtained a loan of US$100 million from the Development Bank of Southern Africa five year term and US$191.7 million from Standard Chartered Bank four year term.
The loans bear an interest rate of three month LIBOR plus 280 basis points and 550 basis points respectively.
Both the loans are repayable in 12 quarterly instalments starting from the third and second year, respectively.
As at 31 March 2012 the total outstanding is US$149 million.
A term loan facility of US$500 million was taken from Standard Bank.
During the period from 30 September 2011 to 26 March 2011, interest was payable monthly at one month LIBOR plus 165 basis points and thereafter, interest is payable monthly at one month LIBOR plus 250 basis points.
The loan is repayable on 22 September 2012.
The tenure for the facility is 12 months.
The amount drawn as on 31 March 2012 under this facility is US$500 million.
Cairn India In October 2010, CIL raised US$500 million through unsecured non-convertible Debentures NCDs.
The NCDs were issued in three tranches Series A, Series B and Series C. Series A & Series B are for INR6,250 million each, at a coupon rate of 8.35% and 8.40% with maturity on 12 July 2012 and 12 October 2012 respectively.
As at 31 March 2012 Series A and Series B for an aggregate amount of US$244.3 million are outstanding.
Vedanta Resources plc Long-term Bonds In July 2008, Vedanta issued US$500 million, 8.75% bonds due January 2014, and US$750 million, 9.50% bonds due July 2018 in the United States of America USA pursuant to Rule 144A of US Securities Act of 1933 Securities Act and outside of the USA in Compliance with Regulation S pursuant to the Securities Act.
The bonds are unsecured and are currently rated BB by Standard & Poors, Ba3 by Moodys and BB by Fitch Ratings Limited.
In June 2011, the Company issued US$750 million, 6.75% bonds due June 2016 and US$900 million, 8.25% bonds due June2021.
Syndicated Bridge Term Loan In April 2008, the Group renanced the short-term syndicated bridge loan facility of US$1,100 million taken out to acquire Sesa Goa.
The new facility is for US$1,000 million, fully drawn down at 31 March 2012, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 296 basis points.
US$250 million is repayable in April 2012 and the remaining US$750 million is repayable in January 2013.
Cairn Acquisition Facility In December 2011 the Company made a drawdown of US$2,788.2 million against the term loan facility from Standard Chartered Bank SCB US$1,473.7 million under facility A and US$1,314.4 million under facility B.
The net proceeds of the loan were used to meet the funding requirements for acquisition of 28.5% stake in Cairn India Limited in December 2011.
Facility A from SCB bears an interest rate of LIBOR plus 175 basis points.
The loan is due for repayment in December 2012 with an option to extend the term further for six months at the request of the borrower.
The interest for the rollover period is USD LIBOR plus 250 basis points.
Facility B bears an interest rate of USD LIBOR plus 325 basis points and is due for repayment in December 2014.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 131 23.
Borrowings continued Term Loan In December 2010, the Group obtained a loan from ICICI Bank for US$180 million repayable US$90 million in December 2014 and the balance US$90 million in December 2015 and bears an interest rate of three month GBP LIBOR plus 385 basis points.
In January 2011, the Group obtained a loan from ICICI Bank for US$150 million repayable US$75 million in January 2016 and the balance US$75 million in January 2017 and bears interest rate of three month USD LIBOR plus 389 basis points.
In July 2011, the Group obtained a loan from ICICI Bank for US$500 million repayable US$250 million in January 2018 and the balance US$250 million in July 2018 and bears an interest rate of three month USD LIBOR plus 390 basis points.
In March 2012, the Company entered into a facility agreement of US$300 million with Standard Chartered Bank and withdrew US$150 million under the agreement.
The loan bears an interest rate of USD LIBOR plus 415 basis points and is due for repayment in June 2015.
The remaining facility amount of US$150 million was undrawn as on 31 March 2012.
Non-equity Non-controlling Interests As at 31 March 2012, non-equity non-controlling interests remain of US$11.9 million, being deferred shares in KCM held by ZCCM.
The deferred shares have no voting rights or rights to KCMs dividends, but are entitled on a winding up to a return of upto US$0.99 per share once all of KCMs ordinary shares have received a distribution equal to their par value and any share premium created on their issue and which remains distributable to them.
The deferred shares are held at historic cost, being the fair value attributed to them at the time of initial acquisition of KCM in the year ended 31 March 2005.
They are classied as non-current liabilities as they are repayable only on the winding up of the Company, for an amount different than the pro rata share of net assets upon liquidation.
The shares have been valued at US$0.99 per share, which is the maximum amount payable to the deferred shareholders.
These deferred shares have not been discounted as the effect would not be material.
Movement in Net Debt Debt due within one year Debt due after one year Cash and cash Liquid Debt carrying Debt-related Debt carrying Debt-related Total 2 2 US$ million equivalents investments value derivatives value derivatives net debt At 1 April 2010 390.0 6,849.4 1,012.6 0.9 7,161.0 12.1 947.2 Cash ow 108.2 178.4 1,863.2 161.6 2,311.4 Net cash ows arising on acquisition ofsubsidiaries 388.6 37.3 29.4 396.5 3 Other non-cash changes 78.8 96.1 0.9 635.6 17.3 636.5 Foreign exchange differences 241.2 78.3 43.8 20.4 255.3 At 1 April 2011 911.6 6,865.4 3,045.1 6,707.4 5.2 1,970.3 Cash ow 161.1 2,354.1 981.8 6,263.5 9,760.5 Net cash ows arising on acquisition ofsubsidiaries 665.8 1,151.0 240.5 1,576.3 3 Other non-cash changes 45.0 211.1 210.1 0.5 375.7 Foreign exchange differences 528.7 767.0 326.9 377.2 465.8 At 31 March 2012 1,945.0 4,940.3 4,151.6 12,803.8 5.7 10,064.4 1 Net debt cash being total debt after fair value adjustments under IAS 32 and 39 as reduced by cash and cash equivalents and liquid investments.
2 Debt related derivatives exclude derivative financial assets and liabilities relating to commodity contracts and forward foreign currency contracts.
3 Other non-cash changes comprises of US$420.7 million 2011:US$462.4 million of project buyers credit obtained from banks, interest accrued, MTM of embedded derivatives, exchanges losses and gains on borrowings and capital creditors for which there is no cash movement.
It also includes US$45 million 2011:US$59.1 million of fair value movement in investments.
A movement of US$0.5 million 2011:US$18.2 million which pertains to fair value of debt related derivatives is also included in other non-cash changes.
com 132 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
Trade and Other Payables a Current Trade Payables As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Trade payables 1,776.4 1,969.0 Bills of exchange payable 850.8 816.6 Accruals and deferred income 320.0 272.5 Other trade payables 895.7 349.4 3,842.9 3,407.5 Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are normally settled on 60 to 90-day terms.
Interest bearing trade payables amount to US$1,083 million 31 March 2011:US$1,159 million.
Bills of exchange are interest-bearing and are normally payable within 180 days.
Bills of exchange payable comprise credit availed from financial institutions for direct payment to suppliers for raw materials purchased.
The arrangements are interest-bearing and are normally payable within 180 days.
The fair value of trade and other payables is not materially different from the carrying values presented.
b Non-current Trade Payables As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Other trade payables 164.0 148.1 164.0 148.1 Other trade payables primarily comprise the amounts withheld as retentions, payable to suppliers of capital projects after satisfactory completion of contractual commissioning period, which are payable after the completion of commissioning.
Convertible Bonds Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 A. VRJL 1,009.7 968.2 B. VRJL II 681.6 651.8 C. FCCB SIIL & Sesa 599.0 651.5 2,290.3 2,271.5 A. Vedanta Resource Jersey Limited VRJL issued 5.5% US$1,250 million guaranteed convertible bonds on 13 July 2009.
The bonds are first convertible into exchangeable redeemable preference shares to be issued by VRJL, which will then be automatically exchanged for ordinary shares of Vedanta Resources plc.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time from 24 August 2009 to 6 July 2016.
The loan notes are convertible at US$36.48 per share at an average rate of GBP:USD of1.6386 If the notes have not been converted, they will be redeemed at the option of the Company at any time on or after 28 July 2012 subject to certain conditions, or be redeemed at the option of the bondholders on or after 13 July 2014.
The net proceeds of the convertible issue have been split between the liability element and equity component, representing the fair value of the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Company, as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Opening liability 968.2 931.3 Effective interest cost 110.4 105.8 Coupon interest paid accrued 68.9 68.9 Closing liability 1,009.7 968.2 The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 11.2% March 2011:11.2%.
The fair value of the convertible bond as at 31 March 2012 is US$1,022 million March 2011:US$1,304.9 million.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 133 26.
Convertible Bonds continued B. Vedanta Resource Jersey II Limited VRJL II issued 4.0% US$883 million guaranteed convertible bonds on 30 March 2010.
The bonds are first convertible into exchangeable redeemable preference shares to be issued by VRJL-II, which will then be automatically exchanged for ordinary shares of Vedanta Resources plc.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time from 10 May 2010 to 23 March 2017.
The loan notes are convertible at US$51.9251 per share at an average rate of USD:GBP of1.4965.
If the notes have not been converted, they will be redeemed at the option of the Company at any time on or after 14 April 2013 subject to certain conditions, or be redeemed at the option of the bondholders on or after 29 April 2013 to 30 March 2015.
At the inception the net proceeds of the convertible issue was split between the liability element and a derivative component, representing the fair value of the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Company.
The latter has not been recorded within equity due to the existence of partial cash settlement terms within the bond which prevent the adoption of compound financial instrument accounting.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, US$44.8 million was debited to the value of the derivative liability with a corresponding credit taken to the income statement.
This represents the movement in the fair value of the embedded option to convert to equity from 1 April 2010 to 28 July 2010, the date of removal of the cash settlement option.
There was no embedded derivate for the year ended 31 March 2012.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Opening liability 651.8 881.1 Equity Component 211.6 Effective interest cost 65.1 62.4 Coupon interest paid accrued 35.3 35.3 Decrease in fair value of derivative component 44.8 Closing liability 681.6 651.8 The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 9.8% 2011:9.3%.
The fair value of the convertible bond as at 31 March 2012 was US$698.9 million March 2011:US$907.6 million.
C. Sterlite Industries India Limited SIIL issued 4% US$500 million convertible senior notes denominated in US Dollars on 29October 2009 which are due on 30 October 2014.
The bonds are convertible into American Depository Share ADS to be issued by SIIL.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time before 29 October 2014 at a conversion ratio of 42.8688 for every US$1,000 of principal which is equal to a conversion price of US$23.33 per ADS.
SIIL has the option subject to the terms of the bond to redeem the convertible bond at any time after 4 November 2012.
Sesa Goa Limited Sesa issued 5% US$500 million convertible bonds denominated in US dollars on 30 October 2009 and due 31 October 2014.
The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of Sesa.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time after 10 December 2009 and before 24 October 2014 at a conversion ratio of 13837.6384 for every US$100,000 principal.
Sesa has the option subject to certain conditions to redeem the convertible bond at any time after 30 October 2012.
As the functional currency of SIIL and Sesa is INR, the conversion of the convertible bonds which are denominated in US dollars would not result in the settlement and exchange of a xed amount of cash in INR terms, for a xed number of SIILs and Sesas shares respectively.
Accordingly, the convertible bond must be separated into two component elements:a derivative component consisting of the conversion option carried at fair value and a liability component consisting of the debt element of the bonds.
Further details of the accounting for such instruments are provided in the Group accounting policies Note 2a.
The following table shows the movements in the SIIL and Sesa bonds during the year on an aggregated basis: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Opening liability 651.5 965.4 Effective interest cost 78.1 71.6 Coupon interest paid 34.4 34.4 Conversion of bonds into equity of subsidiaries 207.7 Decrease in fair value of derivative component 96.2 143.4 Closing liability including derivative component of US$30 million, March 2011:US$126.2 million 599.0 651.5 The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 9.9% March 2011:9.9% for SIIL convertible notes and 13.1% March 2011:10.1% for Sesa convertible notes.
The fair value of the convertible bonds as at 31 March 2012 was US$675.7 million March 2011:US$751.6 million.
com 134 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27.
Financial Instruments The accounting classication of each category of financial instruments, and their carrying amounts, are set out below: As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Financial assets At fair value through profit or loss Held for trading 4,940.3 6,865.4 Other financial assets derivatives 129.6 140.3 Cash and cash equivalents 1,945.0 911.6 Loan and receivables Trade and other receivables 1,795.9 1,328.6 Other non-current assets 97.9 24.6 Available-for-sale investments Financial asset investments held at fair value 179.0 265.2 Financial asset investments held at cost 30.6 39.0 Total 9,118.3 9,574.7 Financial liabilities At fair value through profit or loss Other financial liabilities derivatives 133.2 103.5 Designated into fair value hedge 1 Borrowings 30.0 126.2 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade and other payables 4,006.9 3,555.6 2 Borrowings 16,925.3 9,626.3 Total 21,095.5 13,411.6 1 Includes embedded derivative liability portion of convertible bonds US$30 million 2011:US$126.2 million.
2 Includes amortised cost liability portion of convertible bonds US$2,260.3 million 2011:US$2,145.3 million.
IFRS 7 requires additional information regarding the methodologies employed to measure the fair value of financial instruments which are recognised or disclosed in the accounts.
These methodologies are categorised per the standard as: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets orliabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The table below summarises the categories of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value: As at 31 March 2012 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Financial assets At fair value through profit or loss Held for trading 4,940.3 Other financial assets derivatives 129.6 Available-for-sale investments Financial asset investments held at fair value 179.0 Total 5,119.3 129.6 Financial liabilities At fair value through profit or loss Other financial liabilities derivatives 133.2 Designated into fair value hedge Borrowings 30.0 Total 163.2 There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
No financial assets or liabilities were measured by Level 3 Fair Value Measurement.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 135 27.
Financial Instruments continued The fair value of borrowings is US$16,062.3 million 2011:US$10,011.2 million.
For all other financial instruments, the carrying amount is either the fair value, or approximates the fair value.
The fair value of financial asset investments represents the market value of the quoted investments and other traded instruments.
For other financial assets the carrying value is considered to approximate fair value.
The fair value of financial liabilities is the market value of the traded instruments, where applicable.
Otherwise fair value is calculated using a discounted cash ow model with market assumptions, unless the carrying value is considered to approximate fair value.
The fair value of the embedded derivative liability of convertible bond has been calculated using the binomial and Black-Scholes models with market assumptions.
Derivative Instruments and Risk Management The Groups businesses are subject to several risks and uncertainties including financial risks.
The Groups documented risk management policies act as an effective tool in mitigating the various financial risks to which the businesses are exposed to in the course of their daily operations.
The risk management policies cover areas such as liquidity risk, commodity price risk, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and capital management Note 32.
Risks are identied through a formal risk management programme with active involvement of senior management personnel and business managers at both the corporate and individual subsidiary level.
Each operating subsidiary in the Group has in place risk management processes which are in line with the Groups policy.
Each significant risk has a designated owner within the Group at an appropriate senior level.
The potential financial impact of the risk and its likelihood of a negative outcome are regularly updated.
The risk management process is co-ordinated by the Management Assurance function and is regularly reviewed by the Groups Audit Committee.
Key business decisions are discussed at the monthly meetings of the Executive Committee.
The overall internal control environment and risk management programme including financial risk management is reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
Treasury Management Treasury management focuses on capital protection, liquidity maintenance and yield maximisation.
The treasury policies are approved by the Board and adherence to these policies is strictly monitored at the Executive Committee meetings.
Day-to-day treasury operations of the subsidiary companies are managed by their respective finance teams within the framework of the overall Group treasury policies.
Long-term fund raising including strategic treasury initiatives are handled by a central team while short-term funding for routine working capital requirements is delegated to subsidiary companies.
A monthly reporting system exists to inform senior management of investments, debt, currency, commodity and interest rate derivatives.
The Group has a strong system of internal control which enables effective monitoring of adherence to Group policies.
The internal control measures are effectively supplemented by regular internal audits.
The Group uses derivative instruments as part of its management of exposure to uctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
The Group does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
The Group does not enter into complex derivative transactions to manage the treasury and commodity risks.
Both treasury and commodities derivative transactions are normally in the form of forward contracts and interest rate and currency swaps and these are subject to the Group guidelines and policies.
Interest rate swaps are taken to achieve a balance between xed and oating rates as described below under Interest risk and currency swaps are taken primarily to convert the Groups exposure to non-US dollar currencies to US dollar currencies.
Commodity Risk The Group is exposed to the movement of base metal commodity prices on the London Metal Exchange.
Any decline in the prices of the base metals that the Group produces and sells will have an immediate and direct impact on the profitability of the businesses.
As a general policy, the Group aims to sell the products at prevailing market prices.
As much as possible, the Group tries to mitigate price risk through favourable contractual terms.
The Group undertakes hedging activity in commodities to a limited degree.
Hedging is used primarily as a risk management tool and, in some cases, to secure future cash ows in cases of high volatility by entering in to forward contracts or similar instruments.
The hedging activities are subject to strict limits set out by the Board and to a strictly dened internal control and monitoring mechanism.
Decisions relating to hedging of commodities are taken at the Executive Committee level and with clearly laid down guidelines for their implementation by the subsidiaries.
Whilst the Group aims to achieve average LME prices for a month or a year, average realised prices may not necessarily reect the LME price movements because of a variety of reasons such as uneven sales during the year and timing of shipments.
The Group is also exposed to the movement of international crude oil price and the discount in the price of Rajasthan crude oil to Brent price.
com 136 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27.
Financial Instruments continued Copper The Groups custom smelting copper operations at Tuticorin is benefited by a natural hedge except to the extent of a possible mismatch in quotational periods between the purchase of concentrate and the sale of nished copper.
The Groups policy on custom smelting is to generate margins from TCRCs, improving operational efficiencies, minimising conversion cost, generating a premium over LME on sale of nished copper, sale of by-products and from achieving import parity on domestic sales.
Hence, mismatches in quotational periods are actively managed to ensure that the gains or losses are minimised.
The Group hedges this variability of LME prices and tries to make the LME price a pass-through cost between purchases of copper concentrate and sales of nished products, both of which are linked to the LME price.
The Company also benets from the difference between the amounts paid for quantities of copper content received and recovered in the manufacturing process, also known as free copper.
The Group hedges on a selective basis the free copper by entering into future contracts.
The Groups Australian mines in Tasmania supply approximately 7% to 8% of the requirement of the custom copper smelter at Tuticorin on arms length basis.
Hence, TCRCs are a major source of income for the Indian copper smelting operations.
Fluctuations in TCRCs are inuenced by factors including demand and supply conditions prevailing in the market for mine output.
The Groups copper business has a strategy of securing a majority of its concentrate feed requirement under long-term contracts with mines.
KCM is largely an integrated copper producer and whenever hedging is done it is with an intention to protect the Company from price uctuations in copper.
For the mining assets in Australia and Zambia, part of the production may be hedged to secure cash ows on a selective basis.
Aluminium The requirement of the primary raw material, alumina, is partly met from own sources and the rest is purchased primarily on negotiated price terms.
Sales prices are linked to the LME prices.
At present the Group on a selective basis hedges the aluminium content in outsourced alumina to protect its margins.
Zinc and Lead The sales prices are linked to the LME prices.
The Group has some long-term volume contracts with some customers where the prices are linked to prevailing LME prices at the time of shipment.
The Group hedged custom protection from India through forward contracts or other instruments.
Iron Ore The Group sells some portion of its iron ore production on quarterly price contracts and the balance on the basis of prevailing market prices.
Provisionally Priced Financial Instruments On 31 March 2012, the value of net financial liabilities linked to commodities excluding derivatives accounted for on provisional prices was a liability of US$469.5 million 2011:US$411.8 million.
These instruments are subject to price movements at the time of final settlement and the final price of these instruments will be determined in the financial year beginning 1 April 2012.
Set out below is the impact of 10% increase in LME prices on profit for the year and total equity as a result of changes in value of the Groups commodity financial instruments as at 31 March 2012: US$ million except as stated Effect on Effect on total equity profit of a of a 10% Closing 10% increase increase in LME as at in the LME the LME 31 March 31 March 31 March 2012 2012 2012 Commodity price sensitivity US$ US$ million US$ million Copper 8,480 9.3 9.3 Zinc 2,003 2.2 2.2 Lead 2,021 3.2 3.2 US$ million except as stated Effect on Effect on total equity profit of a of a 10% Closing 10% increase increase in LME as at in the LME the LME 31 March 31 March 31 March 2011 2011 2011 Commodity price sensitivity US$ US$ million US$ million Copper 9,400 4.6 4.6 Zinc 2,319 4.5 4.5 Lead 2,720 3.4 3.4 The above sensitivities are based on volumes, costs, exchange rates and other variables and provide the estimated impact of a change in LME prices on profit and equity assuming that all other variables remain constant.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 137 27.
Financial Instruments continued Further, the impact of a 10% increase in closing copper LME for provisionally priced copper concentrate purchase at Sterlite custom smelting operations is US$37 million 2011:US$37.3 million, which is pass through in nature and as such will not have any impact on the profitability.
Financial Risk and Sensitivities The Groups Board approved financial risk policies comprise liquidity, currency, interest rate and counterparty risk.
The Group does not engage in speculative treasury activity but seeks to manage risk and optimise interest and commodity pricing through proven financial instruments.
a Liquidity The Group requires funds both for short-term operational needs as well as for long-term investment programmes mainly in growth projects.
The Group generates sufficient cash ows from the current operations which together with the available cash and cash equivalents and liquid financial asset investments provide liquidity both in the Short-term as well as in the long-term.
Anticipated future cash ows and undrawn committed facilities of US$2,897.3 million, together with cash and liquid investments of US$6,885.3 million as at 31 March 2012, are expected to be sufficient to meet the ongoing capital investment programme and liquidity requirement of the Group in the near future.
The Group has a strong balance sheet that gives sufficient headroom to raise further debt should the need arise.
The Groups current ratings from Standard & Poors, Moodys & Fitch Ratings are BB, Ba1 and BB respectively 2011:BB, Ba1 and BB respectively.
These ratings support the necessary financial leverage and access to debt or equity markets at competitive terms.
The Group generally maintains a healthy net gearing ratio and retains exibility in the nancing structure to alter the ratio when the need arises.
The maturity prole of the Groups financial liabilities based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date is given in the table below.
At 31 March 2012, the Group had access to funding facilities of US$19,852.7 million of which US$2,897.3 million was not yet drawn, as set out below.
US$ million Funding facilities Total facility Drawn Undrawn Less than 1 year 6,776.1 4,151.6 2,624.5 12 years 3,241.4 3,241.4 25 years and above 9,835.2 9,562.4 272.8 Total 19,852.7 16,955.4 2,897.3 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 138 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27.
Financial Instruments continued At 31 March 2011, the Group had access to funding facilities of US$19,160.1 million of which US$9,407.6 million was not yet drawn, as set out below.
US$ million Funding facilities Total facility Drawn Undrawn Less than 1 year 10,946.8 3,045.1 7,901.7 12 years 3,336.3 1,914.2 1,422.1 25 years and above 4,877.0 4,793.2 83.8 Total 19,160.1 9,752.5 9,407.6 b Foreign Currency The Groups presentation currency is the US dollar.
The majority of the assets are located in India and the Indian rupee is the functional currency for the Indian operating subsidiaries, except Cairn where the functional currency is US dollars, since that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which Cairn operates.
Exposure on foreign currency loans are managed through the Group-wide hedging policy, which is reviewed periodically to ensure that the risk from uctuating currency exchange rates is appropriately managed.
Natural hedges available in the business are identied at each entity level and hedges are placed only for the net exposure.
Short-term net exposures are hedged progressively based on their maturity.
Longer exposures beyond one year are normally unhedged.
Stop losses and take profit triggers are implemented to protect entities from adverse market movements at the same time enabling them to encash in favourable market opportunities.
Vedanta has hedged some of its US dollar borrowings into other foreign currency borrowings by entering into cross-currency swaps.
The carrying amount of the Groups financial assets and liabilities in different currencies are as follows: At 31 March 2012 At 31 March 2011 Financial Financial Financial Financial US$ million assets liabilities assets liabilities USD 2,358.3 16,043.8 884.6 8,849.2 INR 6,316.9 4,867.1 7,959.4 4,260.9 Kwacha 44.4 27.5 JPY 100.5 93.5 8.7 AUD 23.8 21.4 5.6 23.1 CAD 166.9 249.2 Euro 117.4 106.4 134.9 116.4 ZAR 12.2 24.3 62.3 63.5 NAD 21.6 18.4 129.3 45.7 Others 0.7 14.1 11.5 16.6 Total 9,118.3 21,095.5 9,574.7 13,411.6 The Groups exposure to foreign currency arises where a Group company holds monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency different to the functional currency of that entity with US dollar being the major foreign currency exposure of the Groups main operating subsidiaries.
Set out below is the impact of a 10% change in the US dollar on profit and equity arising as a result of the revaluation of the Groups foreign currency financial instruments: 31 March 2012 Effect of 10% Effect of 10% strengthening strengthening Closing of US dollar of US dollar exchange on net on total US$ million rate earning equity INR 51.16 426.6 372.1 AUD 0.9610 0.2 0.2 Euro 0.7490 1.0 33.6 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 139 27.
Financial Instruments continued 31 March 2011 Effect of 10% Effect of 10% strengthening strengthening Closing of US dollar of US dollar exchange on net on total US$ million rate earning equity INR 44.65 167.7 190.3 AUD 0.9680 0.9 0.9 Kwacha 4,770 1.5 1.5 The sensitivities are based on financial assets and liabilities held at 31 March 2012 where balances are not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiaries.
The sensitivities do not take into account the Groups sales and costs and the results of the sensitivities could change due to other factors such as changes in the value of financial assets and liabilities as a result of non-foreign exchange inuenced factors.
c Interest Rate Risk At 31 March 2012, the Groups net debt of US$10,064.4 million 2011:US$1,970.3 million net debt comprises cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments of US$6,885.3 million 2011:US$7,777 million offset by debt of US$16,955.4 million 2011:US$9,752.5 million and debt derivative of US$5.7 million 2011:US$5.2 million.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on short-term and long-term oating rate instruments and on the renancing of xed rate debt.
The Groups policy is to maintain a balance of xed and oating interest rate borrowings and the proportion of xed and oating rate debt is determined by current market interest rates.
As at 31 March 2012, 60.3% 2011:59.3% of the total debt was at a xed rate and the balance was at a oating rate.
The oating rate debt is largely linked to US dollar LIBOR.
The Group also aims to minimise its average interest rates on borrowings by opting for a higher proportion of long-term debt to fund growth projects.
The Group invests cash and liquid investments in short-term deposits and debt mutual funds, some of which generate a tax-free return, to achieve the Groups goal of maintaining liquidity, carrying manageable risk and achieving satisfactory returns.
Floating rate financial assets are largely mutual fund investments which have debt securities as underlying assets.
The returns from these financial assets are linked to market interest rate movements: however the counterparty invests in the agreed securities with known maturity tenure and return and hence has manageable risk.
The exposure of the Groups financial assets to interest rate risk is as follows: At 31 March 2012 At 31 March 2011 Non-interest Non-interest Floating rate Fixed rate bearing Floating rate Fixed rate bearing financial financial Equity financial financial financial Equity financial US$ million assets assets Investments assets assets assets Investments assets Financial assets 3,013.5 3,409.8 189.1 2,362.9 5,091.9 2,362.4 278.2 1,701.9 Derivative assets 143.0 140.3 Total financial assets 3,013.5 3,409.8 189.1 2,505.9 5,091.9 2,362.4 278.2 1,842.2 The exposure of the Groups financial liabilities to interest rate risk is as follows: At 31 March 2012 At 31 March 2011 Non-interest Non-interest Floating rate Fixed rate bearing Floating rate Fixed rate bearing financial financial financial financial financial financial US$ million liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities Financial liabilities 14,437.6 3,660.9 2,863.8 3,820.6 6,363.4 3,124.1 Derivative liabilities 133.2 103.5 Total financial liabilities 14,437.6 3,660.9 2,997.0 3,820.6 6,363.4 3,227.6 The weighted average interest rate on the xed rate financial liabilities is 7.7% 2011:7.4% and the weighted average period for which the rate is xed is 4.4 years 2011:3.4 years.
Considering the net debt position as at 31 March 2012 and the investment in bank deposits and debt mutual funds, any increase in interest rates would result in a net loss and any decrease in interest rates would result in a net gain.
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
com 140 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27.
Financial Instruments continued The table below illustrates the impact of a 0.5% to 2.0% decrease in interest rate of borrowings on profit and equity and represents managements assessment of the possible change in interest rates.
At 31 March 2012 In US$ million Effect on Effect on net earnings total equity US dollar US dollar Decrease in interest rates interest rate interest rate 0.5% 40.2 40.2 1.0% 80.5 80.5 2.0% 161.0 161.0 At 31 March 2011 In US$ million Effect on Effect on net earnings total equity US dollar US dollar Decrease in interest rates interest rate interest rate 0.5% 12.7 12.7 1.0% 25.3 25.3 2.0% 50.7 50.7 d Credit Risk The Group is exposed to credit risk from trade receivables, liquid investments and other financial instruments.
The Group has clearly dened policies to mitigate counterparty risks.
Cash and liquid investments are held primarily in mutual funds and banks with good credit ratings.
Dened limits are in place for exposure to individual counterparties in case of mutual fund houses and banks.
The large majority of receivables due from third parties are secured.
Moreover, given the diverse nature of our businesses trade receivables are spread over a number of customers with no significant concentration of credit risk.
No single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Groups net sales or for any of the Groups primary businesses during the year ended 31 March 2012 and in the previous year.
The history of trade receivables shows a negligible provision for bad and doubtful debts.
Therefore, the Group does not expect any material risk on account of non-performance by any of our counterparties.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 March 2012 is US$9,118.3 million 2011:US$9,574.7 million.
Of the year end trade and other receivable balance the following, though overdue, are expected to be realised in the normal course of business and hence, are not considered impaired as at 31 March 2012: US$ million 2012 2011 Less than 1 month 26.6 14.2 Between 13 months 12.7 6.1 Between 312 months 25.0 8.7 Greater than 12 months 77.2 17.0 Total 141.5 46.0 Derivative Financial Instruments The fair value of all derivatives is separately recorded on the balance sheet within other financial assets derivatives and other financial liabilities derivatives, current and non-current.
In addition, the derivative component of certain convertible bonds is shown as part of the overall convertible bond liability Note 26.
Derivatives that are designated as hedges are classied as current or non-current depending on the maturity of the derivative.
Embedded Derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other contracts are treated as separate derivative contracts, when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of their host contracts.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 141 27.
Financial Instruments continued Cash Flow Hedges The Group also enters into forward exchange and commodity price contracts for hedging highly probable forecast transactions and accounts for them as cash ow hedges and states them at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised in equity until the hedged transactions occur, at which time the respective gains or losses are transferred to the income statement.
The fair value of the Groups open derivative positions at 31 March 2012, recorded within other financial assets derivatives and other financial liabilities derivatives is as follows: As at 31 March 2012 As at 31 March 2011 US$ million Liability Asset Liability Asset Current Cash ow hedges Commodity contracts 3.5 Forward foreign currency contracts 1.2 0.2 8.1 Fair value hedges Commodity contracts 2.2 0.1 3.3 0.2 Forward foreign currency contracts 0.3 4.7 0.3 Others foreign currency swap 82.1 83.0 Non-qualifying hedges Commodity contracts 2.5 0.6 5.0 3.1 Forward foreign currency contracts 9.4 13.7 0.8 29.2 Hedge of net investment in foreign operations 9.0 Total 101.1 106.8 9.3 40.9 Non-current Fair value hedges Interest rate swap 14.7 Others foreign currency swap 17.4 22.8 94.2 99.4 Total 32.1 22.8 94.2 99.4 Grand total 133.2 129.6 103.5 140.3 The majority of cash ow hedges taken out by the Group during the year comprise forward foreign currency contracts for rm future commitments.
Non-Qualifying Hedges The majority of these derivatives comprise copper sale and purchase contracts at Sterlite custom smelting operations and also includes interest rate swaps which are economic hedges but which do not full the requirements for hedge accounting of IAS 39 Financial Instruments:Recognition and Measurement.
Fair Value Hedges The fair value hedges relate to forward covers taken to hedge currency exposure on purchase of raw materials and capital imports and includes cross currency swaps.
Hedging Reserves Reconciliation NonHedging controlling US$ million reserves interests Total At 1 April 2010 27.8 14.9 42.7 Amount recognised directly in equity 7.7 3.9 3.8 Amount charged credited to income statement 2.3 3.3 1.0 Exchange difference 0.4 0.4 At 1 April 2011 38.2 7.7 45.9 Amount recognised directly in equity 64.9 15.7 80.6 Amount credited to income statement 30.4 7.5 37.9 Exchange difference 1.5 0.5 2.0 At 31 March 2012 55.6 15.0 70.6 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 142 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Provisions Restoration, rehabilitation KCM Copper and Price US$ million environmental Participation Other Total At 1 April 2010 25.3 125.4 17.8 168.5 Acquisition 121.2 19.3 140.5 Credited charged to income statement 2.2 0.9 1.1 2.4 Unwinding of discount 0.7 6.6 0.7 7.9 Cash paid 0.1 3.9 4.0 Exchange differences 0.9 0.9 At 1 April 2011 150.4 131.1 42.8 324.3 Acquisition 124.3 6.1 130.4 Credited to income statement 1.6 19.2 6.5 27.3 Unwinding of discount 5.0 6.1 0.4 11.5 Cash paid 0.3 20.0 6.2 26.5 Exchange differences 3.8 3.5 7.3 At 31 March 2012 274.0 98.0 33.1 405.1 Current 2012 18.1 18.1 Non-current 2012 274.0 98.0 15.0 387.0 274.0 98.0 33.1 405.1 Current 2011 22.8 22.8 Non-current 2011 150.4 131.1 20.0 301.5 150.4 131.1 42.8 324.3 Restoration, Rehabilitation and Environmental The provisions for restoration, rehabilitation and environmental liabilities represent the Directors best estimate of the costs which will be incurred in the future to meet the Groups obligations under existing Indian, Australian, Zambian, Namibian, South African and Irish laws and the terms of the Groups mining and other licences and contractual arrangements.
These amounts become payable on closure of mines and are expected to be incurred over a period of three to 20 years.
Relating to oil and gas elds, costs are incurred in restoring the site of production facilities at the end of the producing life of an oil eld.
The Company recognises the full cost of site restoration as a liability when the obligation to rectify environmental damage arises.
An obligation to incur restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs arises when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production from a producing eld.
KCM Copper Price Participation KCM Copper Price Participation relates to provision in respect of a price participation agreement in Zambia which requires KCM to pay ZCCM an agreed annual sum when copper price exceeds specified levels and specic triggers.
The timing of the outow is dependent on future copper prices as well as dividends paid.
Other Other includes provision on post retirement medical benets and insurance claim receivables.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 143 29.
Deferred Tax The Group has accrued significant amounts of deferred tax.
The majority of the deferred tax liability represents accelerated tax relief for the depreciation of capital expenditure and the depreciation on fair value upliftment created on acquisitions, net of losses carried forward by KCM.
The amounts of deferred taxation on temporary differences, provided and not provided, in the accounts are as follows: Provided Liabilities assets As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Accelerated capital allowances 6,514.4 1,773.9 Unutilised tax losses 390.5 377.3 Other temporary differences 610.0 66.7 5,513.9 1,329.9 Recognised as: Deferred tax liability provided 5,916.7 1,348.1 Deferred tax asset recognised 402.8 18.2 5,513.9 1,329.9 Unrecognised Deferred Tax Assets As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed depreciation 488.7 252.0 The above relates to the tax effect of US$471.6 million 2011:US$356.9 million of unutilised tax losses of the Company and VRHL which have no expiry period and US$1,157.2 million 2011:US$490.8 million of unutilised tax losses and capital allowances for VAL and SEL.
The expiry period for unutilised tax losses is eight years in the Indian tax regime whereas unabsorbed depreciation can be carried forward for an indefinite period.
No benefit has been recognised for these items on the grounds that their successful application against future profits is not probable in the foreseeable future.
Deferred Tax Asset As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 At 1 April 18.2 8.9 Credited to income statement 178.0 17.3 Charged directly to equity 1.1 8.3 Acquisitions 205.8 Foreign exchange differences 1.9 0.3 At 31 March 402.8 18.2 The Group has US$1,301.7 million of unutilised tax losses at KCM 2011:US$1,234.9 million which expire in the period 2016 to 2019 and have been offset against accelerated capital allowances at the same entity.
com 144 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Deferred Tax continued Deferred Tax Liability As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 At 1 April 1,358.0 1,209.3 Addition due to acquisition 4,832.0 205.9 Credited to income statement 127.6 62.6 Charged directly to equity 6.8 2.3 Foreign exchange differences 132.1 14.1 Prior year adjustments 10.9 Disposals 6.8 At 31 March 5,916.7 1,358.1 No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Share-based Payments Employee Share Schemes The Group aims to provide superior rewards for outstanding performance and a high proportion of at risk remuneration for Executive Directors.
Three employee share schemes were approved by shareholders on Listing.
The Board has no present intention to introduce any further share schemes.
The Vedanta Resources Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP The LTIP is the primary arrangement under which share-based incentives are provided to the Executive Directors and the wider management group.
The maximum value of shares that can be conditionally awarded to an Executive Director in a year is 100% of annual salary.
In respect of Messrs Navin Agarwal and MS Mehta, salary means the aggregate of their salary payable by Vedanta and their CTC payable by Sterlite.
The maximum value of shares that can be awarded to members of the wider management group is calculated by reference to the CTC, share-based remuneration already received and consistent with local market practice.
The performance condition attaching to outstanding awards under the LTIP is that the Companys performance, measured in terms of Total Shareholder Return TSR being the movement in a companys share price plus reinvested dividends, is compared over the performance period with the performance of the companies as dened in the scheme from the date of grant.
The extent to which an award vests will depend on the Companys TSR rank against a group of peer companies Adapted Comparator Group at the end of the performance period and as moderated by Remuneration Committee.
The vesting schedule is shown in the table below, with adjusted straight-line vesting in between the points shown and rounding down to the nearest whole share.
Vedantas TSR Performance against Adapted Comparator Group % of award vesting Below median At median 40 At or above upper quartile 100 The performance condition will be measured by taking the Companys TSR over the four weeks immediately preceding the date of grant and over the four weeks immediately preceding the end of the performance period, and comparing its performance with that of the comparator group described above.
The information to enable this calculation to be carried out on behalf of the Remuneration Committee the Committee will be provided by the Companys advisers.
The Committee considers that this performance condition, which requires that the Companys total return has out-performed a group of companies chosen to represent the mining sector, provides a reasonable alignment of the interests of the Executive Directors and the wider management group with those of the shareholders.
Initial awards under the LTIP were granted on 26 February 2004 with further awards being made on 11 June 2004, 23 November 2004, 1 February 2006, 1 February 2007, 14 November 2007, 1 February 2009, 1 August 2009, 1 January 2010, 1 April 2010, 1 July 2010, 1 October 2010, 1 January 2011, 1 April 2011, 1 July 2011, 1 August 2011, 1 October 2011 and 1 January 2012.
The exercise price of the awards is 10 US cents per share and the performance period is one year for the February 2007 awards and three years for all other awards, with no re-testing being allowed.
The exercise period is six months from the date of vesting.
Further details on the LTIP would be available in the Remuneration Report of the Annual Report on pages 83 to 91.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 145 30.
The weighted average share price for the share options exercised during the year was 21.43.
All share-based awards of the Group are equity-settled as dened by IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The fair value of these awards has been determined at the date of grant of the award allowing for the effect of any market-based performance conditions.
This fair value, adjusted by the Groups estimate of the number of awards that will eventually vest as a result of non-market conditions, is expensed uniformly over the vesting period.
The fair values were calculated using the Monte Carlo model with suitable modications to allow for the specic performance conditions of the LTIP.
The inputs to the model include the share price at date of grant, exercise price, expected volatility, expected dividends and the risk free rate of interest.
A progressive dividend growth policy is assumed in all fair value calculations.
Expected volatility has been calculated using historical share prices over the period to date of grant that is commensurate with the performance period of the option.
The share prices of the mining companies in the Adapted Comparator Group have been modelled based on historical price movements over the period to date of grant which is also commensurate with the performance period for the option.
The history of share prices is used to determine the volatility and correlation of share prices for the companies in the Adapted Comparator Group and is needed for the Monte Carlo simulation of their future TSR performance relative to the Companys TSR performance.
All options are assumed to be exercised six weeks after vesting.
The assumptions used in the calculations of the charge in respect of the LTIP awards granted during the year are set out below: LTIP April 2011 LTIP July 2011 LTIP August 2011 LTIP October 2011 LTIP January 2012 Date of grant 1-Apr-11 1-Jul-11 1-Aug-11 1-Oct-11 1-Jan-12 Number of instruments 102,300 19,000 2,862,100 5,000 7,000 Exercise price US$0.10 US$0.10 US$0.10 US$0.10 US$0.10 Share price at the date of grant 23.79 20.94 17.70 11.01 10.15 Contractual life 3 Years 3 Years 3 Years 3 Years 3 Years Expected volatility 69% 69% 68% 70% 57% Expected option life 3.2 Years 3.2 Years 3.2 Years 3.2 Years 3.2 Years Expected dividends 1.2% pa 1.2% pa 1.8% pa 2.7% pa 3.3% pa Risk free interest rate 1.9% pa 1.9% pa 1.0% pa 0.7% pa 0.4% pa Expected annual forfeitures 13.5% pa 13.5% pa 13.5% pa 13.5% pa 13.5% pa Fair value per option granted 16.018 14.093 11.092 6.293 5.111 The Group recognised total expenses of US$20.2 million and US$18.4 million related to equity settled share-based payment transactions in the year ended 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011 respectively.
com 146 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Retirement Benets The Group operates pension schemes for the majority of its employees in India, Australia, Africa and Ireland.
a Dened Contribution Schemes Indian Pension Schemes Central Provident Fund The Central Provident Fund relates to all full-time Indian employees of the Group.
The amount contributed by the Group is a designated percentage of 12% of basic salary less contributions made as part of the Pension Fund see below, together with an additional contribution of 12% or more up to 30% in case of Sesa Goa of salary made by the employee.
The benefit is paid to the employee on their retirement or resignation from the Group.
Superannuation Superannuation, another pension scheme applicable in India, is applicable only to senior executives.
However, in case of Cairn India group and Sesa Goa, the benefit is applicable to all executives.
Certain companies hold policies with the Life Insurance Corporation of India LIC, to which they contribute a xed amount relating to superannuation, and the pension annuity is met by the LIC as required, taking into consideration the contributions made.
Accordingly, this scheme has been accounted for on a dened contribution basis and contributions are charged directly to the income statement.
Pension Fund The Pension Fund was established in 1995 and is managed by the Government.
The employee makes no contribution to this fund but the employer makes a contribution of 8.33% of salary each month subject to a specified ceiling per employee.
This must be provided for every permanent employee on the payroll.
At the age of superannuation, contributions cease and the individual receives a monthly payment based on the level of contributions through the years, and on their salary scale at the time they retire, subject to a maximum ceiling of salary level.
The Government funds these payments, thus the Group has no additional liability beyond the contributions that it makes, regardless of whether the central fund is in surplus or deficit.
Australian Pension Scheme The Group also operates dened contribution pension schemes in Australia.
The contribution of a proportion of an employees salary into a superannuation fund is a compulsory legal requirement in Australia.
The employer contributes 9% of the employees gross remuneration where the employee is covered by the industrial agreement and 12% of the basic remuneration for all other employees, into the employees fund of choice.
All employees have the option to make additional voluntary contributions.
Zambian Pension Scheme The KCM Pension Scheme is applicable to full-time permanent employees of KCM subject to the fullment of certain eligibility criteria.
The management of the scheme is vested in the trustees consisting of representatives of the employer and the members.
The employer makes a monthly contribution to the KCM Pension Scheme of an amount equal to 11% of that months pensionable salary and the member makes monthly contributions to the fund of an amount equal to 5% of that months pensionable salary.
All contributions to the KCM Pension Scheme, in respect of a member, cease to be payable when the member attains the normal retirement age of 55, or upon leaving the service of the employer, or when the member is permanently medically incapable of performing duties in the service of the employer.
Upon such cessation of contribution on the grounds of normal retirement, or being rendered medically incapable of performing duties, or early voluntary retirement within five years of retirement, the member is entitled to receive an immediate annual pension equal to his accrued pension.
The member is allowed to commute his her accrued pension subject to certain rules and regulations.
The trustees of the KCM Pension Scheme may also allow the purchase of an annuity for the benefit of members from a life assurance company or other providers of annuities, subject to statutory regulations.
The Group has no additional liability beyond the contributions that it makes, regardless of whether the KCM Pension Scheme is in surplus or deficit.
Skorpion Zinc, Namibia Provident Fund The Skorpion Zinc Provident Fund is a dened contribution fund and is compulsory to all full time employees under the age of 60.
Company contribution to the fund is a xed percentage of 8% per month of pensionable salary, whilst the employee contributes 7% with the option of making additional contributions, over and above the normal contribution, up to a maximum of12%.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 147 31.
Retirement Benets continued The normal retirement age is 60 and benefit payable is the members fund credit which is equal to all employer and employee contributions plus interest.
The same applies when an employee resigns from the Company.
The Fund provides disability cover which is equal to the members fund credit and a death cover of two times annual salary in the event of death before retirement.
The latest actuarial value was performed at 28 February 2011.
At that date the Fund was in credit.
Black Mountain Pty Limited, South Africa Pension & Provident Funds Black Mountain Mining Pty Ltd has two retirement funds, both administered by Alexander Forbes, a registered financial service provider.
Both funds form part of the Alexander Forbes umbrella fund and are dened contribution funds.
Membership of both funds is compulsory for all permanent employees under the age of 60.
Lisheen Mine, Ireland Pension Funds Lisheen Pension Plan is for all employees.
Lisheen pays 5% and employees pay 5% with the option to contribute AVCs if desired.
Executive contributions are 15% by the Company and 15% by the employee with the option to contribute AVCs if desired.
Death benefit is three times salary for employees and four times salary for executives.
Pension and Life Cover ceases at 65. b Dened benefit Schemes India The Gratuity schemes are dened benefit schemes, which are open to all Group employees in India who have a minimum of five years service with their employing company.
These schemes are funded by the Group in some subsidiaries.
Based on actuarial valuation, a provision is recognised in full for the projected obligation over and above the funds held in the scheme.
In case, where there is no funding held by the scheme, full provision is recognised in the balance sheet.
Under these schemes, benets are provided based on final pensionable pay.
The assets of the schemes are held in separate funds and a full actuarial valuation of the schemes is carried out on an annualbasis.
MALCO MALCO contributes to the LIC Fund based on an actuarial valuation every year.
MALCOs Gratuity scheme is accounted for on a dened benefit basis.
The latest actuarial valuation was performed as at 31 March 2012 using the projected unit credit actuarial method.
At that date the fund was in deficit.
BALCO At BALCO, all employees who are scheduled to retire on or before 31 March 2012 are covered by the LIC and remaining contributions to the LIC have been made up to 31 March 2015 and have been accounted for on a dened contribution basis.
The Gratuity scheme is accounted for as a dened benefit scheme for all employees scheduled to retire after 31 March 2012 and who are not covered by the LIC.
A provision is recognised based on the latest actuarial valuation which was performed as at 31March 2012 using the projected unit actuarial method.
HZL HZL contributes to the LIC based on an actuarial valuation every year.
HZLs Gratuity scheme is accounted for on a dened benefit basis.
The latest actuarial valuation was performed as at 31 March 2011 using the projected unit actuarial method.
VAL VAL contributes to the LIC based on an actuarial valuation.
Liabilities with regard to the Gratuity scheme are fully provided in the Balance Sheet and are determined by actuarial valuation as at the balance sheet date and as per gratuity regulations for the Company.
The latest actuarial valuation was performed as at 31 March 2012 using the projected unit actuarial method.
TSPL TSPL contributes to the LIC based on an actuarial valuation.
Sterlite Sterlite does not contribute to the LIC.
Liabilities with regard to the Gratuity scheme are fully provided in the Balance Sheet and are determined by actuarial valuation as at the balance sheet date and as per gratuity regulations for the company.
At that date the fund was indecit.
com 148 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Retirement Benets continued Sesa Goa Sesa Goa contributes to the LIC based on actuarial valuation every year.
Sesa Goas Gratuity scheme is accounted for on a dened benefit basis.
Cairn Cairn contributes to the LIC based on actuarial valuation every year.
Cairn India Groups Gratuity scheme is accounted for on a dened benefit basis.
Zambia specified permanent employees of KCM are entitled to receive medical and retirement severance benets.
This comprises two months basic pay for every completed year of service with an earliest service start date of 1 July 2004.
Under this scheme, benets are provided based on final pensionable pay and a full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out on an annual basis.
The accruals are not contributed to any fund and are in the form of provisions in KCMs accounts.
On the death of an employee during service, a lump sum amount is paid to his dependants.
This amount is equal to 60 months basic pay for employees who joined before 1 April 2000 and 30 months basic pay for employees who joined on or after 1 April 2000.
For xed term contract employees, the benefit payable on death is 30 months basic pay.
As at 31 March 2012, membership of pension schemes across MALCO, BALCO, HZL, VAL, Sterlite, Sesa, KCM and Cairn stood at 28,222 employees 31 March 2011:28,905.
The deficits, principal actuarial assumptions and other aspects of these schemes are disclosed in further detail in notes d and e below.
c Pension Scheme Costs Contributions of US$59.7 million and US$nil million in respect of dened benefit schemes were outstanding and prepaid respectively as at 31 March 2012 2011:US$41.2 million and US$nil million respectively.
Contributions to pension schemes in the year ending 31 March 2013 are expected to be around US$5.8 million.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Dened contribution pension schemes 23.1 22.3 Dened benefit pension schemes 21.5 29.3 44.6 51.6 d Principal Actuarial Assumptions.
Assumptions regarding mortality for KCM are based on World Health Organisation Life Tables for 1999 applicable to Zambia which has been taken as a reference point.
Based on this a mortality table which is appropriate for the workers of Konkola Copper Mines plc has been derived.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 149 31.
Retirement Benets continued e Balance Sheet Recognition 31 March 2012 US$ million MALCO BALCO Sterlite HZL KCM VAL Sesa Goa Cairn Total Fair value of pension scheme assets 0.2 0.5 2.4 32.4 1.0 7.7 3.6 47.8 Present value of pension scheme liabilities 0.2 22.5 3.7 35.6 28.4 1.2 10.0 5.3 106.9 deficit in pension scheme recognised in balance sheet 22.0 1.3 3.2 28.4 0.2 2.3 1.7 59.1 Deferred tax 7.1 0.4 1.1 9.2 0.1 0.7 0.5 19.1 Net pension liability 14.9 0.9 2.1 19.2 0.1 1.6 1.2 40.0 31 March 2011 US$ million MALCO BALCO Sterlite HZL KCM VAL Sesa Goa Cairn Total Fair value of pension scheme assets 0.2 1.7 2.3 25.8 1.3 8.0 39.3 Present value of pension scheme liabilities 23.5 3.9 38.5 19.6 0.8 9.8 96.1 deficit in pension scheme recognised in balance sheet 0.2 21.8 1.6 12.7 19.6 0.5 1.8 56.8 Deferred tax 0.1 7.1 0.5 4.0 6.4 0.1 0.6 18.4 Net pension liability 0.1 14.7 1.1 8.7 13.2 0.4 1.2 38.4 f Amounts Recognised in Income Statement in Respect of Dened benefit Pension Schemes: 31 March 2012 US$ million MALCO BALCO Sterlite HZL KCM VAL Sesa Goa Cairn Total Current service cost 0.8 0.4 1.6 4.4 0.2 0.5 0.3 8.2 Actuarial gains losses 1.8 1.3 2.1 0.2 1.3 0.2 6.9 Expected return on scheme assets 0.1 0.2 2.3 0.1 0.4 0.1 3.2 Interest cost of scheme liabilities 1.7 0.3 3.1 3.6 0.1 0.7 0.1 9.6 Total charge credit to income statement 4.2 0.5 3.7 10.1 0.4 2.1 0.5 21.5 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 150 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Retirement Benets continued 31 March 2011 US$ million MALCO BALCO Sterlite HZL KCM VAL Sesa Goa Cairn Total Current service cost 0.1 0.5 0.4 1.6 1.6 0.2 0.5 4.9 Actuarial gains losses 0.1 5.2 0.3 11.0 2.6 0.2 1.0 20.4 Expected return on scheme assets 0.2 0.1 2.2 2.5 Interest cost of scheme liabilities 0.8 0.3 2.2 2.7 0.7 6.7 Total charge credit to income statement 0.2 6.3 0.9 12.6 6.9 0.4 2.2 29.5 g Movements in the Present Value of Dened benefit Obligations The movement during the year ended 31 March 2012 of the present value of the dened benefit obligation was as follows: 31 March 2012 US$ million MALCO BALCO Sterlite HZL KCM VAL Sesa Goa Cairn Total At 1 April 11 23.5 3.9 38.5 19.6 0.8 9.8 96.1 At acquisition 5.0 5.0 Current service cost 0.2 0.8 0.4 1.6 4.4 0.2 0.5 0.3 8.4 Gratuity benets paid 2.1 0.5 4.0 3.8 0.1 1.2 0.2 11.9 Interest cost of scheme liabilities 1.7 0.3 2.9 3.6 0.1 0.6 0.1 9.3 Actuarial losses 2.1 1.6 2.3 0.1 1.3 0.3 7.7 Exchange difference 2.5 0.5 3.1 0.2 1.2 0.2 7.7 At 31 March 12 0.2 23.5 3.6 37.5 26.1 0.9 9.8 5.3 106.9 31 March 2011 US$ million MALCO BALCO Sterlite HZL KCM VAL Sesa Goa Cairn Total At 1 April 11 0.2 13.3 3.2 27.5 16.1 0.4 8.6 69.3 At acquisition Current service cost 0.1 0.5 0.4 1.6 1.6 0.2 0.5 4.9 Gratuity benets paid 0.2 5.6 0.3 4.2 3.4 1.0 14.7 Interest cost of scheme liabilities 0.8 0.3 2.2 2.7 0.7 6.7 Actuarial losses 0.1 5.2 0.3 11.0 2.6 0.2 1.0 20.4 Exchange difference 0.2 9.3 0.4 9.5 At 31 March 12 23.5 3.9 38.5 19.6 0.8 9.8 96.1 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 151 31.
Retirement Benets continued h Movements in the Fair Value of Scheme Assets As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 At 1 April 39.3 32.6 Acquisition 3.4 Contributions received 17.7 10.1 Benets paid 12.3 14.7 Acturial gains 1.7 1.4 Expected return on plan assets 3.1 2.6 Foreign exchange differences 5.1 7.3 At 31 March 47.8 39.3 i Five Year History Dened benefit Pension Plan As at As at As at As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Experience losses gains arising on scheme liabilities 7.0 20.4 11.3 7.8 1.4 Difference between expected and actual return on plan assets 0.1 Fair value of pension scheme assets 47.8 39.3 32.6 23.6 26.8 Present value of pension scheme liabilities 106.9 96.1 69.3 52.9 69.3 deficits in the schemes 59.1 56.8 36.7 29.3 42.5 32.
Capital Management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard continuity, maintain a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and provide adequate return to shareholders through continuing growth.
The Group sets the amount of capital required on the basis of annual business and long-term operating plans which include capital and other strategic investments.
The funding requirement is met through a mixture of equity, internal accruals, convertible bonds and other long-term and short-term borrowings.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, being the ratio of net debt as a percentage of total capital.
As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Total equity 18,419.5 13,753.8 Net debt 10,064.4 1,970.3 Total capital 28,483.9 15,724.1 Gearing 35.3% 12.5% Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 152 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
Share Capital At 31 March 2012 At 31 March 2011 Authorised Number US$ million Number US$ million Ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 400,000,000 40.0 400,000,000 40.0 Deferred shares of 1 each 50,000 50,000 400,050,000 40.0 400,050,000 40.0 At 31 March 2012 At 31 March 2011 Ordinary shares issued and fully paid Number US$ million Number US$ million Ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 296,908,045 29.7 296,845,751 29.7 Deferred shares of 1 each 50,000 50,000 296,958,045 29.7 296,895,751 29.7 During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Company issued 62,294 shares to the employees pursuant to the LTIP scheme 2011:738,248 shares.
The holders of deferred shares do not have the right to receive notice of any general meeting of the Company nor the right to attend, speak or vote at any such general meeting.
The deferred shares have no rights to dividends and, on a winding-up or other return of capital, entitle the holder only to the payment of the amounts paid on such shares after repayment to the holders of ordinary shares of the nominal amount paid up on the ordinary shares plus the payment of 100,000 per ordinary share.
Of the 50,000 deferred shares, one deferred share was issued at par and has been fully paid, and 49,999 deferred shares were each paid up as to one-quarter of their nominal value.
6,904,995 ordinary shares were issued on the conversion of certain convertible bonds issued by one of the Companys subsidiaries.
These 6,904,995 ordinary shares are held through a global depositary receipt and carry no voting rights.
During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Company did not buy back any shares under its share buy-back programme 2011:3,126,133.
34. Business Combinations Cairn India Limited During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of Cairn India Limited by acquiring a 59% stake, asfollows: In April 2011, the Group through its subsidiary Sesa Goa acquired 200 million shares amounting to 10.5% stake in Cairn India Limited from Petronas International Corporation Ltd. Petronas at a price of INR331 per share amounting to total cash consideration of US$1,478 million.
Sesa Goa and Sesa Resources acquired circa 8.1% of Cairn India Limited through an Open Offer at a total cost of US$1,223.0million.
On 11 July 2011, the Group through its wholly-owned subsidiary Twin Star Mauritius Holdings Limited TMHL, further acquired 191.9 million shares from Cairn Energy plc, amounting to circa 10.1% stake in Cairn India Limited at a price of INR355 per share amounting to US$1,505.7 million.
On 7 December 2011, Sesa Goa acquired a 1.5% stake from Cairn Energy on the open market for a consideration of US$182million.
On 8 December 2011, the acquisition was completed when the Group through TMHL purchased a 28.7% stake from Cairn Energy plc at a price of INR355 per share.
Cairn India is involved in the business of exploration, development and production of oil and gas.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 153 34. Business Combinations continued The fair value of the identiable assets and liabilities of Cairn India as at 8 December 2011, the date of the acquisition were estimated as follows: Provisional US$ million fair value Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 17,547.1 Deferred tax assets 205.7 17,752.8 Current assets Inventories 25.3 Trade and other receivables 794.9 Liquid investments 1,151.0 Cash and cash equivalents 665.8 Current tax assets 23.5 Assets held for sale 24.1 2,684.6 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables 457.6 Other financial  4.6 Provisions 626.8 1,089.0 Non-current liabilities Medium long-term borrowings 239.3 Provisions 83.7 Deferred tax liabilities 4,832.0 5,155.0 Net assets 14,193.4 Fair value of existing stake 3,788.2 Cash consideration paid for 28.7% 4,284.9 Non-controlling interest 5,819.3 Less fair value of identiable assets and liabilities 14,193.4 Bargain purchase 301.0 Due to acquisition being completed in series of transactions, the acquisition is accounted for as a Step Acquisition under the provisions of IFRS 3 revised 2008.
Accordingly, the equity interest previously held in Cairn India and accounted as an investment in associate, is treated as if it was disposed off and reacquired at fair value on the acquisition date.
Consequently, the Group remeasured its existing 30.3% interest in the assets and liabilities of Cairn India Limited prior to this transaction to their fair values, recognising a loss of US$332.4 million.
The Group recognised a bargain purchase gain of US$301 million, resulting from excess fair value of the net assets acquired over the fair value of consideration paid.
The net loss of US$31.4 million is recorded within Special Items in the income statement Note 5.
The fair values and business combination accounting set out in this annual report are provisional for the 12 month period from the date of acquisition.
The operating and financial results of Cairn India have been consolidated from 8 December 2011.
From 11 July 2011 to 7December 2011, Cairn India has been accounted as an associate under equity method of accounting.
Since the date of acquisition, Cairn India has contributed US$882.5 million to the revenue and US$486.2 million to the net profit of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2012.
If Cairn India had been acquired at the beginning of the year, the revenue of the Group would have been US$1,610.6 million higher and the net profit of the Group would have been US$458.3 million higher.
Acquisition costs related to Cairn India, charged to the income statement is US$97.2 million of which US$24.2 million has been charged to the income statement in the year ended 31 March 2011.
com 154 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34. Business Combinations continued Goa Energy Private Limited On 1 March 2012, Vedanta Resources plc through its subsidiary Sesa Goa acquired 100% stake in Goa Energy Private Limited GEPL from Videocon Industries at a consideration of US$9.5 million.
The operating and financial results of GEPL have been consolidated from 1 March 2012.
GEPL is in the business of power generation.
The fair value of identiable assets and liabilities has been estimated as: Provisional US$ million fair value Assets Non-current assets Goodwill 4.4 Property, plant and equipment 16.6 21.0 Current assets Trade and other receivables 1.4 1.4 Liabilities Current liabilities Short-term borrowings 1.2 Trade and other payables 1.8 3.0 Non-current liabilities Long-term borrowings 8.8 Deferred tax liabilities 1.1 9.9 Net assets 9.5 satisfied by: Cash consideration paid 9.5 Since the date of acquisition, GEPL has contributed US$0.5 million to the revenue and US$0.1 million to the net profit of the Group for the year ended March 2012.
If GEPL had been acquired at the beginning of the year, the revenue of the Group would have been US$5.4 million higher and the net profit of the Group would have been reduced by US$0.7 million.
Acquisition costs related to GEPL, charged to the income statement is US$nil million.
Prior Year Business Combinations On 3 December 2010, Vedanta Resources plc acquired 100% equity of Anglo Base Namibia Holdings Pty Ltd which is the holding company of the Skorpion Namibian assets for a total consideration of US$706.7 million.
Provisional fair values that were determined as at 31 March 2011 for consolidation were nalised during the measurement period of 12 months from the acquisition date.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 155 34. Business Combinations continued The fair value of the identiable assets and liabilities of Skorpion Zinc, Namibia as at the date of the acquisition were as follows: Provisional Fair value Fair value US$ million fair value adjustments at acquisition Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 628.2 17.3 610.9 Financial assets investments 3.0 3.0 631.2 17.3 613.9 Current assets Inventories 53.3 53.3 Trade and other receivables 3.9 3.9 Cash and cash equivalents 119.5 119.5 176.7 176.7 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables 21.7 21.7 Current tax liabilities 0.2 0.2 21.9 21.9 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 30.6 17.3 13.3 Provisions 48.7 48.7 79.3 17.3 62.0 Net assets 706.7 706.7 satisfied by: Cash consideration paid 706.7 706.7 On 4 February 2011 Vedanta Resources plc through its subsidiary THL Zinc Limited, acquired 74% equity of Black Mountain Mining Pty Ltd for a total consideration of US$260.2 million.
Shareholders loan from Anglo to Black Mountain Mines was taken over by Vedanta of amount US$87.7 million.
com 156 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34. Business Combinations continued The fair value of the identiable assets and liabilities of Black Mountain Mines as at the date of the acquisition were as follows: Provisional Fair value Fair value US$ million fair value adjustments at acquisition Assets Non-current assets Intangibles 162.1 162.1 Property, plant and equipment 297.5 254.9 552.4 Financial assets investments 10.8 10.8 470.4 92.8 563.2 Current assets Inventories 34.8 34.8 Trade and other receivables 29.9 29.9 Cash and cash equivalents 31.6 31.6 96.3 96.3 Liabilities Current liabilities Borrowings 117.1 117.1 Trade and other payables 12.4 12.4 Current tax liabilities 8.9 8.9 138.4 138.4 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 124.8 27.3 152.1 Provisions 29.9 29.9 154.7 27.3 182.0 Net assets 273.6 65.5 339.1 Less:Non-controlling recognised on acquisition 13.4 74.8 88.2 260.2 9.3 250.9 satisfied by: Cash consideration paid 260.2 250.9 The decrease in cash consideration reects the tax receivable reimbursed by the seller.
On 15 February 2011, Vedanta Resources plc, through its subsidiary THL Zinc Holding BV, acquired 100% equity of Anglo American Lisheen Finance Limited for a total consideration of US$546.2 million.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 157 34. Business Combinations continued The fair value of the identiable assets and liabilities of Lisheen mines as at the date of the acquisition were as follows: Provisional Fair value Fair value US$ million fair value adjustments at acquisition Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 278.9 278.9 278.9 278.9 Current assets Inventories 18.2 18.2 Trade and other receivables 14.8 14.8 Cash and cash equivalents 325.2 325.2 Liquid investments 37.3 37.3 395.5 395.5 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables 22.8 22.8 Current tax liabilities 3.0 3.0 25.8 25.8 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 40.5 40.5 Provisions 61.9 61.9 102.4 102.4 Net assets 546.2 546.2 satisfied by: Cash consideration paid 546.2 546.2 35.
Joint Ventures Jointly Controlled Assets The Groups principal licence interests in oil and gas business are jointly controlled assets.
The principal licence interests are asfollows: Working interest % India Block PKGM-1 Ravva 22.50 1 Block KG-DWN-98 2 10.00 Block KG-ONN-2003 1 49.00 Block CB OS-2 Development areas 40.00 Block RJ-ON-90 1 Development areas 70.00 1 Block KK-DWN-2004 1 40.00 Block PR-OSN-2004 1 35.00 Block KG-OSN-2009 3 100.00 Block MB-DWN-2009 1 100.00 Sri Lanka SL-2007-01-001 100.00 1 All the blocks except KK-DWN-2004 1 and KG-DWN-98 2 are operated by Cairn India.
com 158 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 36.
Investments in Associates Investments in Cairn India Limited The Group accounted for its investments in Cairn India Limited as an associate from 11 July 2011, the date it acquired significant inuence to 7 December 2011, the date it acquired the controlling stake.
The share of associates revenue and profit were as follows: For the period 11 July 2011 to 7 December US$ million 2011 Revenue 283.2 Operating profit 122.7 Investment revenues 8.8 Finance cost 20.7 profit before taxation 110.8 Tax expense 18.6 Share of profit for the period 92.2 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 65.4 Non-controlling interests 26.8 92.2 37.
Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies Commitments The Group has a number of continuing operational and financial commitments in the normal course of business including: Exploratory mining commitments: Mining commitments arising under production sharing agreements: and Completion of the construction of certain assets.
As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Capital commitments contracted but not provided 2,877.0 3,737.1 Commitments at 31 March 2012 primarily related to the expansion projects at HZL US$155.8 million 2011:US$144.2 million, KCM US$121.3 million 2011:US$127.4 million, VAL US$750.1 million 2011:US$538.7 million, SEL US$64.8 million 2011: US$121.9 million, BALCO US$212.9 million 2011:US$516.9 million, Talwandi Sabo US$1,216.6 million 2011:US$1,818.4 million and Sterlite US$246.6 million 2011:US$342.8 million.
Guarantees Companies within the Group provide guarantees within the normal course of business.
Guarantees have also been provided in respect of certain short-term and long-term borrowings.
A summary of the most significant guarantees is set out below: As at 31 March 2012, US$335.2 million of guarantees were advanced to banks, suppliers etc in the normal course of business 2011:US$240 million.
The Group has also entered into guarantees and bonds advanced to the customs authorities in India of US$1,594.5 million relating to the export and payment of import duties on purchases of raw material and capital goods including export obligations 2011:US$1,710.5 million.
Cairn PSC Guarantee to Government The Group has provided Parent Company guarantee for the Groups Cairn India Groups obligation under the Production Sharing Contract.
Cairn India have provided various other guarantees under the Cairn India Groups bank facilities for the Cairn India Groups share of minimum work programme commitments of US$34.2 million for the current year.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 159 37.
Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies continued Export Obligations The Indian entities of the Group have export obligations of US$4,732.6 million 2011:US$5,691.7 million on account of concessional rates of import duty paid on capital goods under the Export Promotion Capital Goods Scheme and under the Advance Licence Scheme for import of raw material laid down by the Government of India.
In the event of the Groups inability to meet its obligations, the Groups liability would be US$591.6 million 2011:US$711.6 million, reduced in proportion to actual exports, plus applicable interest.
Guarantees to Suppliers The Group has given corporate guarantees to certain suppliers of concentrate.
The value of these guarantees was US$195 million at 31 March 2012 2011:US$120 million.
Environmental and Terminal Benets ETB Cash Reserve Account KCM Pursuant to the terms of the shareholders agreement between VRHL and ZCI dated 5 November 2004, KCM is expected to contribute a minimum of US$10 million with a maximum of US$18 million in any financial year to ensure that the amount of ETB liabilities are covered by a cash reserve when the life of the Konkola ore body comes to an end.
The ETB liabilities refer to KCMs obligations in relation to the environment and any terminal benets payable to its employees.
As at 31 March 2012, ETB liabilities provided for were US$86 million 2011:US$86 million, although these liabilities are likely to uctuate at each future reporting date.
Contingencies The Company has the following significant contingencies.
With regard to the claims against Group companies included below, unless stated, no provision has been made in the financial statements as the Directors believe that it is not probable that the claim will give rise to a material liability.
MALCO Claims With Tamil Nadu Electricity Board TNEB TNEB is claiming US$20 million from MALCO for an electricity self-generation levy for the period from May 1999 to June 2003.
This claim has arisen since the commissioning of MALCOs captive power plant in 1999.
The Company has sought an exemption from the application of this levy from the Government of Tamil Nadu.
The application is under consideration.
Meanwhile, the Madras High Court has in its recent Order, remitted back the case to the State of Tamil Nadu, to take a decision afresh on the representation for grant of tax exemption on consumption of electricity and directed to pass a detailed speakingorder.
HZL:Department of Mines and Geology The Department of Mines and Geology of the State of Rajasthan issued several show cause notices in August, September and October 2006 to HZL, totalling US$65.3 million.
These notices alleged unlawful occupation and unauthorised mining of associated minerals other than zinc and lead at HZLs Rampura Agucha, Rajpura Dariba and Zawar mines in Rajasthan during the period from July 1968 to March 2006.
HZL believes that the likelihood of this claim becoming an obligation of the Company is unlikely and thus no provision has been made in the financial statements.
HZL has led writ petitions in the High Court of Rajasthan in Jodhpur and has obtained a stay in respect of these demands.
RICHTER:Income Tax The Indian Tax Authorities have served a show cause notice on an indirect subsidiary of Vedanta Resources plc, Richter Holdings Limited Richter, for alleged failure to deduct withholding tax on capital gain on the alleged indirect acquisition of shares in Sesa Goa Limited in April, 2007.
Richter has applied to the larger bench of the Karnataka High Court to seek to quash the notice in view of the established legal position.
The court directed Richter to approach the tax office to decide the jurisdiction and granted liberty to approach the court directly in the event Richter is not satisfied with the conclusion of the tax office.
Meanwhile in another case the Supreme Court of India has held that overseas share transfers are not subject to taxation in India.
Subsequent to this decision, the Finance Bill, 2012 seeks to amend the tax laws retrospectively to clarify the legislative intent.
Richter believes it is not liable for such withholding tax and intends to challenge the amendments when enacted.
Miscellaneous Disputes Sterlite, HZL, MALCO, BALCO, Cairn and Lisheen The income tax, excise and related indirect tax authorities have made several claims against the above companies for additional income tax, excise and indirect duties.
The claims mostly relate either to the assessable values of sales and purchases or to incomplete documentation supporting the companies returns.
The approximate value of claims against the companies total US$779.3 million 2011:US$583.5 million, of which US$17.4 million 2011:US$6.4 million is included as a provision in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2012.
In the view of the Directors, there are no significant unprovided liabilities arising from these claims.
com 160 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38.
Related Party Transactions The information below sets out transactions and balances between the Group and various related parties in the normal course of business for the year ended 31 March 2012.
Sterlite Technologies Limited STL 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Sales to STL 184.7 137.8 Reimbursement of expenses 0.2 Purchases 7.1 5.3 Net Interest Received 0.4 0.2 Net amounts receivable at year end 13.5 13.3 Sterlite Technologies Limited, is related by virtue of having the same controlling party as the Group, namely Volcan.
Pursuant to the terms of the Shared Services Agreement dated 5 December 2003 entered into by the Company, Sterlite and STL, the Company and Sterlite provide various commercial services in relation to STLs businesses on an arms length basis and at normal commercial terms.
For the year ended 31 March 2012, the commercial services provided to STL were performed by certain senior employees of the Group on terms set out in the Shared Services Agreement.
The services provided to STL in this year amounted to US$0.1 million 2011:US$nil.
Vedanta Foundation formerly Sterlite Foundation During the year US$2.3 million was paid to the Vedanta Foundation 2011:US$1.7 million.
Vedanta Foundation is a registered not-for-profit entity engaged in computer education and other related social and charitable activities.
The major activity of the Vedanta Foundation is providing computer education for disadvantaged students.
The Vedanta Foundation is a related party as it is controlled by members of the Agarwal family who control Volcan.
Volcan is also the majority shareholder of Vedanta Resources plc.
Sesa Goa Community Foundation Limited Following the acquisition of Sesa Goa, the Sesa Goa Community Foundation Limited, a charitable institution, became a related party of the Group on the basis that key management personnel of the Group have significant inuence on the Sesa Goa Community Foundation Limited.
During the year ended 31 March 2012, US$1.1 million 2011:US$0.7 million was paid to the Sesa Goa Community Foundation Limited.
The Anil Agarwal Foundation During the year, US$0.1 million 2011:US$0.4 million was received from the Anil Agarwal Foundation towards reimbursement of administrative expenses.
The Anil Agarwal Foundation is a registered not-for-profit entity engaged in social and charitable activities.
The Anil Agarwal Foundation is controlled by members of the Agarwal family.
Henry Davis York 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Consultancy services 0.9 1.2 Henry Davis York provides board and legal services to CMT a subsidiary of the Group.
The Partners of Henry Davis York hold Non-Executive Director positions at CMT.
Sterlite Iron and Steel Limited 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Reimbursement of expenses 0.1 0.1 Loan balance receivable 7.1 Receivable at year end 0.3 0.3 Sterlite Iron and Steel Limited is a related party by virtue of having the same controlling party as the Group, namely Volcan.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 161 38.
Related Party Transactions continued Vedanta Medical Research Foundation 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Donation 5.2 9.5 Vedanta Medical Research Foundation formerly Vedanta Medical Research Association is a related party of the Group on the basis that key management personnel of the Group exercise significant inuence.
Volcan Investments Limited 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Reimbursement of expenses 0.3 0.2 Net amount receivable at year end 0.1 Dividend paid 91.0 82.1 Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors and the key management personnel of the Group are set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Short-term employee benets 13.8 8.8 Post employment benets 0.7 0.6 Share-based payments 12.7 5.0 27.2 14.4 Information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in Note 31.
Share Transactions BALCO Option The Company purchased 51% share holding in BALCO from the Government of India on 2 March 2001.
Under the terms of the Shareholders Agreement SHA for BALCO, the Company has a call option that allows it to purchase the Government of Indias residual ownership interest in BALCO at any stage from 2 March 2004.
The Company exercised this option on 19 March 2004.
However, the Government of India has contested the validity of the call option and the valuation.
The Company attempted to resolve the issue through mediation but the process of mediation was unsuccessful and the dispute was referred to arbitration as provided for in the SHA.
The Arbitration Tribunal in its majority award dated 25 January 2011 rejected the claims of Sterlite and held that put call options as contained in the SHA are in violation of Section 111A 2 of the Companies Act, 1956 and are not enforceable.
Sterlite challenged the validity of the Award dated 25 January 2011 and sought for setting aside of the Award under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 to the extent to which it holds that Clauses 5.8, 5.3, 5.4 and 5.1 a of the SHA are void, ineffective and inoperative by virtue of being violative of sub-section 2 of 111A of the Companies Act, 1956.
The Government has also challenged the majority Award which upholds the first valuation report and has prayed for setting aside the ruling made in the Award relating to the valuation report and the Companys right to purchase the Government of Indias shares at 75% of the valuation.
The Delhi High Court has kept the Government of Indias application in abeyance until the Companys application has been determined.
The Companys application is listed for final hearing on 6 August 2012.
com 162 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 39.
Share Transactions continued HZL Option In pursuance to the Government of Indias policy of disinvestment and the Share Purchase Agreement and a Shareholders Agreement SHA both dated 4 April 2002 entered into with the Government of India, the Company acquired 26% equity interest in HZL.
Under the terms of the SHA, the Company could exercise the primary call option to purchase 18.92% of the Government of Indias share capital in HZL at fair market value upon expiry of six months of the effective date of the SHA and such right would be valid for a period of 12 months.
The Company exercised the first call option on 29 August 2003 and acquired an additional share capital constituting 18.92% of HZLs issued share capital.
The Company also acquired an additional 20% of the equity capital in HZL through an open offer resulting in increase of the Companys shareholding to 64.92%.
As per the SHA, the Company can exercise a second call option to acquire the entire residual share holding of the Government of India constituting 29.5% shares in HZL at any time after the expiry of five years from the effective date of the SHA.
The Company exercised its second call option by way of its letter dated 21 July 2009.
The Government of India has claimed that the provisions of the SHA violate the provisions of Section 111A of the Companies Act, 1956 by restricting the right of the Government of India to transfer its shares freely and by virtue of Section 9 of the said Act such provisions are void and unenforceable.
As such, the Government of India has refused to act upon the second call option.
Consequently, the Company has invoked the Arbitration clause for referring the matter to arbitration and has appointed its nominee arbitrator.
Under the terms of the SHA, the Government of India is required to nominate its arbitrator and the two nominated arbitrators would then choose the third arbitrator who would preside over the arbitral tribunal.
As the Government of India did not appoint an arbitrator, the Company led an application under Section 11 6 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 in the Delhi High Court petitioning the Court to take necessary measures of securing the appointment of arbitrator.
The Delhi High Court has in its order dated 18 May 2010 directed the parties to appoint mediators for mediation of the dispute.
The mediation process was unsuccessful.
Consequently an arbitral tribunal was constituted.
As per the preliminary meeting, the parties have been directed to le their statement of claim and reply prior to the next date of hearing in August 2012.
The Group continues to include the shareholdings in the two companies HZL and BALCO, in respect of which the Group has a call option as non-controlling interest.
Share Purchases During financial year 2012, the Group increased its holding in certain of its subsidiaries through open market purchases.
The details of such purchases are as follows: a 17,297,059 shares of Sterlite Industries India Limited accounting for 0.51% of SIILs total equity.
b 15,598 shares of MALCO accounting for 0.01% of MALCOs total equity.
The aggregate amount on these transactions of US$15.6 million was recorded within equity.
Subsequent Events There were no material post balance sheet events which have a bearing on the understanding of the financial statements.
Principal Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the following principal subsidiaries: The Companys economic Immediate percentage Immediate percentage holding holding Country of holding Subsidiaries Principal activities 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 incorporation company 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Direct Subsidiaries of the Parent Company Vedanta Resources Holding Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Great Britain VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Limited VRHL Vedanta Resources Jersey Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Limited VRJL Vedanta Resources Jersey II Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Limited VRJL-II Vedanta Finance Jersey Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Limited VFJL Vedanta Resources Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Great Britain VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Investments Limited VRIL Vedanta Jersey Investments Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Limited Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 163 41.
Principal Subsidiaries continued The Companys economic Immediate percentage Immediate percentage holding holding Country of holding Subsidiaries Principal activities 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 incorporation company 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Indirect Subsidiaries of the Parent Company Bharat Aluminium Company Aluminium mining and 29.59% 29.34% India Sterlite 51.00% 51.00% Limited BALCO smelting Copper Mines of Tasmania Copper mining 58.02% 57.53% Australia MCBV 100.00% 100.00% Pty Limited CMT Fujariah Gold Gold & Silver processing 58.02% 57.53% UAE CMT 100.00% 100.00% Hindustan Zinc Limited Zinc and mining and 37.66% 37.35% India SOVL 64.92% 64.92% HZL smelting The Madras Aluminium Energy generation 94.81% 94.76% India Twin Star 78.80% 78.76% Company Limited MALCO Monte Cello BV MCBV Holding company 58.02% 57.53% Netherlands Sterlite 100.00% 100.00% Monte Cello Corporation NV Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Netherlands Twin Star 100.00% 100.00% MCNV Konkola Copper Mines PLC Copper mining and 79.40% 79.40% Zambia VRHL 79.40% 79.40% KCM smelting Sterlite Energy Limited SEL Energy generation 58.02% 57.53% India Sterlite 100.00% 100.00% Sesa Goa Limited Iron Ore 55.13% 55.13% India Finsider 46.20% 46.20% Sesa Goa Sesa Resources Limited Iron Ore 55.13% 55.13% India Sesa Goa 100.00% 100.00% Sesa Mining Corporation Iron Ore 55.13% 55.13% India Sesa 100.00% 100.00% Private Limited Resources Limited Sterlite Industries India Copper smelting 58.02% 57.53% India Twin Star 54.64% 54.64% Limited Sterlite Sterlite Opportunities and Holding company 57.53% India Sterlite 100.00% 1 Venture Limited SOVL Sterlite Infra Limited SIL Non-trading 58.02% 57.53% India Sterlite 100.00% 100.00% Thalanga Copper Mines Pty Copper mining 58.02% 57.53% Australia MCBV 100.00% 100.00% Limited TCM Twin Star Holdings Limited Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius VRHL 100.00% 100.00% Twin Star Vedanta Aluminium Limited Alumina mining, 87.61% 87.47% India EKTL 70.50% 2 VAL aluminium rening and smelting Richter Holding Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Cyprus VRCL 100.00% 100.00% Richter Westglobe Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius Richter 100.00% 100.00% Finsider International Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Great Britain Richter 60.00% 60.00% Company Limited Vedanta Resources Finance Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Great Britain VRHL 100.00% 100.00% Limited VRFL Vedanta Resources Cyprus Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Cyprus VRFL 100.00% 100.00% Limited VRCL Welter Trading Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Cyprus VRCL 100.00% 100.00% Welter 3 Lakomasko B. V. Financing company 58.02% 100.00% Netherlands THL Zinc 100.00% Holding B. V. THL Zinc Ventures Limited Financing company 58.02% 57.53% Mauritius Sterlite Infra 100.00% 100.00% Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 164 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 41.
Principal Subsidiaries continued The Companys economic Immediate percentage Immediate percentage holding holding Country of holding Subsidiaries Principal activities 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 incorporation company 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Twin Star Energy Holdings Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius VRHL 100.00% 100.00% Limited THL Zinc Limited Financing company 58.02% 57.53% Mauritius THL Zinc 100.00% 100.00% Ventures Ltd Sterlite USA Inc. Financing company 58.02% 57.53% USA Sterlite 100.00% 100.00% Talwandi Sabo Power Energy generation 58.02% 57.53% India SEL 100.00% 100.00% Limited 4 Allied Port Services Pvt Ltd Port Service 87.47% India VAL 100.00% Konkola Resources plc Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Great Britain VRHL 100.00% 100.00% Vizag General Cargo Berth Infrastructure 42.94% 42.58% India Sterlite 74.00% 74.00% Private Limited Twin Star Mauritius Holdings Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius Twin Star 100.00% 100.00% Limited TMHL Energy Holdings Ltd THL Zinc Namibia Holdings Mining and Exploration 58.02% 57.53% Namibia THL Zinc Ltd 100.00% 100.00% Pty Limited VNHL Skorpion Zinc Pty Limited Acquisition of 58.02% 57.53% Namibia VNHL 100.00% 100.00% SZPL immovable and movable properties Namzinc Pty Limited SZ Mining 58.02% 57.53% Namibia SZPL 100.00% 100.00% Skorpion Mining Company Mining 58.02% 57.53% Namibia SZPL 100.00% 100.00% Pty Limited NZ Amica Guesthouse Pty Ltd Accommodation and 58.02% 57.53% Namibia SZPL 100.00% 100.00% catering services Rosh Pinah Healthcare Leasing out of 37.13% 36.82% Namibia SZPL 64.00% 64.00% Pty Ltd medical equipment and building and conducting services related thereto Black Mountain Mining Pty Mining 42.94% 42.58% South Africa THL Zinc Ltd 74.00% 74.00% Ltd THL Zinc Holding BV Financing company 58.02% 57.53% Netherlands Sterlite Infra 100.00% 100.00% Lisheen Mine Partnership Mining Partnership Firm 58.02% 57.53% Ireland VLML 50% 50% THL Zinc Holding Non-Trading Company 57.53% Netherlands THL Zinc Ltd 100.00% 5 Cooperative U.
A Pecvest 17 Proprietary Ltd. Investment Company 58.02% 57.53% South Africa THL Zinc Ltd 100.00% 100.00% Vedanta Lisheen Holdings Investment Company 58.02% 57.53% Ireland THL Zinc 100.00% 100.00% Limited Earlier Vedanta Holding BV Lisheen Finance Limited VLFL Vedanta Base Metals Ireland No Operations 57.53% Ireland VLFL 100.00% 5 Limited Vedanta Lisheen Mining Mining 58.02% 57.53% Ireland VLFL 100.00% 100.00% Limited VLML Killoran Lisheen Mining Mining 58.02% 57.53% Ireland VLFL 100.00% 100.00% Limited Killoran Lisheen Finance Investment Company 58.02% 57.53% Ireland VLFL 100.00% 100.00% Limited Lisheen Milling Limited Manufacturing 58.02% 57.53% Ireland VLFL 100.00% 100.00% Killoran Concentrates No Operations 57.53% Ireland VLFL 100.00% 5 Limited Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 165 41.
Principal Subsidiaries continued The Companys economic Immediate percentage Immediate percentage holding holding Country of holding Subsidiaries Principal activities 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 incorporation company 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 5 Killoran Lisheen Limited No Operations 57.53% Ireland VLFL 100.00% Killoran Lisheen Holdings No Operations 57.53% Ireland Killoran 100.00% 5 Limited Lisheen Ltd 5 Azela Limited No Operations 57.53% Ireland Killoran 100.00% Lisheen Ltd Paradip Multi Cargo Berth Infrastructure 42.94% 42.58% India Sterlite 74.00% 74.00% Private Limited Sterlite Ports Limited Earlier Investment Company 58.02% 57.53% India Sterlite 100.00% 100.00% MALCO Power Company Limited Sterlite Infraventures Limited Investment Company 58.02% 57.53% India Sterlite 100.00% 100.00% Earlier MALCO Industries Limited Bloom Fountain Limited Investment Company 55.13% Mauritius Sesa Goa 100.00% Limited Western Clusters Limited Mining Company 28.12% Liberia Bloom 51.00% Fountain Limited Ekaterina Limited EKTL Investment Company 100.00% Mauritius Twin Star 64.54% Holdings Ltd Goa Energy Private Limited Energy generation 55.13% India Sesa Goa 100.00% Limited Cairn India Limited Exploration & 49.83% India Twin Star 38.74% production Mauritius Holdings Ltd Cairn India Holdings Limited Holding company 49.83% Jersey Cairn India 100.00% Limited Cairn Energy Holdings Holding company 49.83% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% Limited Holdings Limited Cairn Energy Hydrocarbons Exploration & 49.83% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% Ltd production Holdings Limited Cairn Exploration No.
7 Exploration & 49.83% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% Limited production Holdings Limited Cairn Exploration No.
6 Exploration & 49.83% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% Limited production Holdings Limited Cairn Exploration No.
4 Exploration & 49.83% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% Limited production Holdings Limited Cairn Exploration No.
2 Exploration & 49.83% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% Limited production Holdings Limited Cairn Energy Gujarat Block 1 Exploration & 49.83% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% Limited production Holdings Limited Cairn Energy Discovery Exploration & 49.83% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% Limited production Holdings Limited Cairn Petroleum India Exploration & 49.83% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% Limited production Holdings Limited Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 166 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 41.
Principal Subsidiaries continued The Companys economic Immediate percentage Immediate percentage holding holding Country of holding Subsidiaries Principal activities 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 incorporation company 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Cairn Energy Cambay B. V. Exploration & 49.83% Netherlands Cairn 100.00% production Energy Cambay Holding B. V. Cairn Energy India West B. V. Exploration & 49.83% Netherlands Cairn 100.00% production Energy India West Holding B. V. Cairn Energy Gujarat B. V. Exploration & 49.83% Netherlands Cairn 100.00% production Energy Gujarat Holding B. V. Cairn Energy India Holdings Holding company 49.83% Netherlands Cairn 100.00% B. V. Energy Group Holdings B. V. Cairn Energy Group Holding company 49.83% Netherlands Cairn 100.00% Holdings B. V. Energy Netherlands Holdings B. V. Cairn Energy Netherlands Holding company 49.83% Netherlands Cairn 100.00% Holdings B. V. Energy Holdings Limited Cairn Energy Gujarat Holding company 49.83% Netherlands Cairn 100.00% Holding B. V Energy India Holdings B. V. Cairn Energy India West Holding company 49.83% Netherlands Cairn 100.00% Holding B. V. Energy India Holdings B. V. Cairn Energy Cambay Holding company 49.83% Netherlands Cairn 100.00% Holding B. V. Energy India Holdings B. V. Cairn Energy Australia Pty Holding company 49.83% Australia Cairn 100.00% Limited Energy Group Holdings B. V. CEH Australia Limited Holding company 49.83% Australia Cairn 100.00% Energy Australia Pty Limited Cairn Energy Asia Pty Limited Holding company 49.83% Australia Cairn 68.18% Energy Australia Pty Limited Cairn Energy Investments Holding company 49.83% Australia Cairn 100.00% Australia Pty Limited Energy Asia Pty Limited Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 167 41.
Principal Subsidiaries continued The Companys economic Immediate percentage Immediate percentage holding holding Country of holding Subsidiaries Principal activities 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 incorporation company 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Wessington Investments Pty Holding company 49.83% Australia Cairn 100.00% Limited Energy Asia Pty Limited Sydney Oil Company Pty Holding company 49.83% Australia Cairn 100.00% Limited Energy Investments Australia Pty Limited Cairn Energy India Pty Exploration & 49.83% Australia Sydney Oil 100.00% Limited production Company Pty Limited CEH Australia Pty Limited Holding company 49.83% Australia Ceh 100.00% Australia Limited CIG Mauritius Holdings Holding company 49.83% Mauritius Cairn India 100.00% Private Limited Limited CIG Mauritius Private Limited Holding company 49.83% Mauritius Cig 100.00% Mauritius Holding Private Limited Cairn Lanka Pvt Ltd Exploration & 49.83% Sri Lanka Cig 100.00% production Mauritius Pvt Ltd 1 Now merged with Sterlite.
2 Sale of holdings in VAL by Twin Star and Welter to EKTL during the year.
3 Transfer of 100% holding from VRHL to THL Zinc Holding B. V. during the year.
The Group owns directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power of all of its subsidiaries as mentioned in the list above, and the Group is able to govern its subsidiaries financial and operating policies so as to benefit from their activities.
com 168 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 42.
Ultimate Controlling Party At 31 March 2012, the ultimate controlling party of the Group was Volcan, which is controlled by persons related to the Executive Chairman, Mr Anil Agarwal.
Volcan is incorporated in the Bahamas, and does not produce Group accounts.
Company Balance Sheet 31 March 31 March US$ million Note 2012 2011 Fixed assets Tangible assets 45 0.3 0.1 Investments in subsidiaries 46 1,061.8 1,061.8 Investment in preference shares of subsidiaries 47 178.9 178.9 Financial asset investment 48 0.3 0.5 Derivative asset 5.3 6.0 1,246.6 1,247.3 Current assets Debtors due within one year 49 463.1 323.2 Debtors due after one year 49 5,378.2 3,857.7 Current asset investments 50 182.5 262.0 Cash at bank and in hand 0.3 1.0 6,024.1 4,443.9 Creditors:amounts falling due within one year Trade and other creditors 51 66.6 33.7 External borrowings 51 996.0 370.6 Loan from subsidiary 51 281.7 188.4 1,344.3 592.7 Net current assets 4,679.8 3,851.2 Total assets less current liabilities 5,926.4 5,098.5 Creditors:amounts falling due after one year Loan from subsidiary 52 1,741.1 1,669.4 External borrowings 52 3,205.8 2,420.4 4,946.9 4,089.8 Net assets 979.5 1,008.7 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 53 29.7 29.7 Share premium account 53 196.8 196.8 Share-based payment reserve 53 39.8 20.5 Convertible bond reserve 53 382.0 453.3 Other reserves 53 2.0 1.8 Treasury shares 53 490.6 490.6 profit and loss account 53 823.8 800.8 Shareholders funds 53 979.5 1,008.7 44.
Company Accounting Policies The Vedanta Resources plc the Company balance sheet and related notes have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and UK company law UK GAAP.
The financial information has been prepared on an historical cost basis.
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the parent company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
significant Accounting Policies Investments in Subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries represent equity holdings in subsidiaries valued at cost less any provision for impairment.
Investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Investment in Preference Shares of Subsidiaries Investments in preference shares of subsidiaries are stated at fair value.
The fair value is represented by the face value of the preference shares as the investments are redeemable at any time for their face value at the option of the Company.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 169 44.
Company Accounting Policies continued Currency Translation Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company, being US dollars, are translated into US dollars at the spot exchange rates ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into US dollars at year end exchange rates, or at a contractual rate if applicable.
Tangible Fixed Assets Tangible xed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Deferred Taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full on all timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, subject to the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Share-based Payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured at fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting conditions are determined by an external valuer and the fair value at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Amounts recharged to subsidiaries in respect of awards granted to employees of subsidiaries are recognised as intercompany debtors until repaid.
Borrowings Interest bearing loans are recorded at the net proceeds received i. e. net of direct transaction costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis and charged to the profit and loss account using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Convertible Bonds The Convertible bonds issued by VRJL and VRJL-II Note 52 are accounted for as a compound instrument.
The gross proceeds net of issue costs were lent to the Company by VRJL and VRJL-II.
The equity component has been recognised in a separate reserve of the Company and is not subsequently remeasured.
The recognition of the equity component by the Company acts to reduce the payable to VRJL and VRJL-II which arises once the gross proceeds are borrowed.
The interest expensed on the liability component is calculated by applying an effective interest rate.
The difference between interest expensed and interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the liability component.
The bonds are first convertible into preference shares of the issuer having a principal value of US$100,000 per preference share, which are exchanged immediately for ordinary shares of the Company.
Financial Instruments The Company has elected to take the exemption provided in paragraph 2D of FRS 29 in respect of these parent company financial statements.
Full disclosures are provided in Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the period ended 31 March 2012.
Derivative Financial Instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at their fair value on the date of the derivative transaction and are remeasured at their fair value at subsequent balance sheet dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the profit and loss account.
The hedged item is recorded at fair value and any gain or loss is recorded in the profit and loss account and is offset by the gain or loss from the change in the fair value of the derivative.
Derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market at the balance sheet date and gains or losses are recognised in the profit and loss account immediately.
com 170 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 44.
Company Accounting Policies continued Cash Flow Statement The Companys individual financial statements are outside the scope of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements because the Company prepares publicly available consolidated financial statements, which include a consolidated cash ow statement.
Accordingly, the Company does not present an individual company cash ow statement.
Related Party Disclosures The Companys individual financial statements are exempt from the requirements of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures because its individual financial statements are presented together with its consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the individual financial statements do not include related party disclosures.
Financial Guarantees Guarantees issued by the Company on behalf of other Group companies are designated as Insurance Contracts.
Accordingly, these are shown as contingent liabilities Note 54.
Debtors Debtors are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
An allowance for impairment for debtors is made where there is an indication of a reduction in the recoverability of the carrying value of the debtor.
Creditors Creditors are stated at their nominal value.
Company Tangible Fixed Assets US$ million Cost At 1 April 2011 1.2 Additions 0.3 At 31 March 2012 1.5 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2011 1.1 Charge for the period 0.1 At 31 March 2012 1.2 Net book value At 1 April 2011 0.1 At 31 March 2012 0.3 46.
Investments in Subsidiaries US$ million Cost At 1 April 2011 1,061.8 At 31 March 2012 1,061.8 At 31 March 2012, the Company held 144,538,524 shares in VRHL 2011:144,538,524 shares, being 100% of VRHLs issued equity share capital.
The Company also held one deferred share in VRHL 2011:one.
At 31 March 2012, the Company held two shares in Vedanta Finance Jersey Limited VFJL 2011:two, two shares in Vedanta Resources Jersey Limited VRJL 2011:two, two shares in Vedanta Resources Jersey II Limited VRJL-II 2011:two and two shares in Vedanta Jersey Investment Limited VJIL 2011:two, being 100% of its issued equity share capital.
VRHL is an intermediary holding company incorporated in England and Wales.
VFJL, VRJL and VRJL-II are companies established to raise funds for the Vedanta Group via convertible bond issue and are incorporated in Jersey.
A detailed list of subsidiary investments held indirectly by the Company can be seen in Note 41.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 171 47.
Investment in Preference Shares of Subsidiaries US$ million Fair value At 1 April 2012 178.9 Additions At 31 March 2012 178.9 As 1 April 2010 178.9 Additions At 31 March 2011 178.9 As at 31 March 2012, the Company held 178,916,000 preference shares in VFJL 2011:178,916,000.
These shares entitle the holder to a dividend of 4.6% of their face value.
Financial Asset Investment US$ million Fair value At 1 April 2011 0.5 Fair value movement in investment 0.2 At 31 March 2012 0.3 At 1 April 2010 0.5 Fair value movement in investment At 31 March 2011 0.5 The investment relates to an equity investment of shares in Victoria Gold Corporation.
At 31 March 2012, the investment in Victoria Gold Corporation was revalued and a loss of US$0.2 million was recognised in equity.
Company Debtors 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 5,840.3 4,176.2 Prepayments and accrued income 0.7 4.3 Other taxes 0.3 0.4 Total 5,841.3 4,180.9 Debtors due within one year 463.1 323.2 Debtors due after one year 5,378.2 3,857.7 Total 5,841.3 4,180.9 Amounts Due From Subsidiary Undertakings At 31 March 2012, the Company had loans due from VRHL of US$1,806.8 million 2011:US$1,965.8 million which represented the downstreaming of funds to the subsidiaries.
Out of the total loan, US$579.3 million bears interest at US dollar six months LIBOR plus 350 basis points, US$500 million at 5.8%, US$245 million at 8.95%, US$200 million at 5.9%, US$195.7 million at 9.7%, and US$86.8 million at 8.95%.
In addition to the loans, the Company was owed US$338.2 million of accrued interest 2011:US$269.4 million.
At 31 March 2012, the Company had loans of US$496 million 2011:US$892 million, US$nil million 2011:US$500 million, US$nil million 2011:US$500 million and US$3,137 million 2011:US$16.3 million receivable from Richter, Welter, KCM and TMHL respectively and US$62.3 million of other amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 2011:US$32.3 million.
com 172 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 50.
Company Current Asset Investments 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Bank term deposits 180.4 261.0 Short-term unit trusts and liquid funds 2.1 1.0 Total 182.5 262.0 51.
Company Creditors:Amounts Falling Due Within One Year 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Trade creditors 1.7 Accruals and deferred income 66.6 32.0 External borrowings 996.0 370.6 Loan from subsidiary 281.7 188.4 Total 1,344.3 592.7 The Loan from Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd BTMU of US$373 million was repaid on its due date in July 2011.
The external borrowings as on 31 March 2012 represent a loan of US$1,000 million taken from ABN AMRO Bank ABN in April2008.
Out of this, US$250 million is repayable in April 2012 and remaining US$750 million is repayable in January 2013.
Company Creditors:Amounts Falling Due After One Year 31 March 31 March US$ million 2012 2011 Loan from subsidiary 1,741.1 1,669.4 Bond & Loans 3,205.8 2,420.4 Total 4,946.9 4,089.8 Loans from subsidiaries include a loan of US$1,023.1 million from VRJL relating to its issue of US$1.25 billion convertible bonds bond issued in July 2009 and of US$718 million from VRJL-II related to its issue of US$883 million convertible bond bond issued in March 2010.
During 2011, interest was charged at the effective interest rate of 11.22% and interest rate of 9.79% respectively.
The loan due to ABN has been reclassied to Company creditors:amounts falling due within one year at 31 March 2012 Note51.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 173 53.
Company Reconciliation of Movement in Equity Shareholders Funds Share Share-based Convertible profit Share premium payment bond Treasury and loss Other US$ million capital account reserve reserve Shares account reserves Total Equity shareholders funds at 1April 2011 29.7 196.8 20.5 453.3 490.6 800.8 1.8 1,008.7 profit for the year 94.8 94.8 Dividends paid 144.0 144.0 Exercise of LTIP awards 0.9 0.9 Recognition of share-based payments 20.2 20.2 Convertible bond reserve transfer 71.3 71.3 Movement in fair value of financial investments note48 0.2 0.2 Equity shareholders funds at 31 March 2012 29.7 196.8 39.8 382.0 490.6 823.8 2.0 979.5 54.
The Company has guaranteed US$1,250 million convertible bonds issued by VRJL 2011:US$1,250 million.
See Note 26 to the Group financial statements for further details on the convertible bonds.
The Company has given corporate guarantee to Vedanta Aluminium Limited for an amount of US$4,275 million up to 31March 2012. c. The Company also has issued other guarantees of US$170 million supplied to concentrate suppliers.
d. The Company has given corporate guarantee to Konkola Copper Mines for an amount of US$925 million up to 31 March 2012. e. The Company has given corporate guarantee to Fujairah Gold FZE for an amount of US$5 million up to 31 March 2012. f. The Company has guaranteed US$883 million convertible bonds issued by VRJL-II 2011:US$883 million.
Company Share-based Payments The Company had certain LTIP awards outstanding as at 31 March 2012.
See Note 30 to the Group financial statements for further details on these share-based payments.
