Financial Statements Shareholder information Shareholder enquiries The Companys registrars are: Computershare Investor Services plc The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol, BS99 6ZZ Website: www.
co. uk contactus Telephone: 0870 707 1402 Shareholder enquiries relating to shareholding, dividend payments, change of address, loss of share certicate, etc.
should be addressed to Computershare.
Investor Centre Investor Centre is a free, secure share management website provided by Computershare.
This service allows you to view your share portfolio and see the latest market price of your shares, check your dividend payment and tax information, change your address, update payment instructions and receive your shareholder communications online.
To take advantage of this service, please log in at www.
co. uk and enter your Shareholder Reference Number SRN and Company Code WEP.
This information can be found on your share certicate or dividend tax voucher.
Dividends 2012 final dividend The directors have recommended a final dividend of 30.0p per share, for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012.
Payment of this dividend is subject to approval at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Key dates relating to this dividend are given below: Ex dividend date 1 May 2013 Record date 3 May 2013 Final day for receipt of DRIP elections 9 May 2013 Annual General Meeting 1 May 2013 Payment date 31 May 2013 Dividend payments You can choose to receive your dividend in a number of ways.
Dividends will automatically be paid to you by cheque and sent to your registered address unless you have chosen one of the options below: Direct payment to your bank Cash dividends can be paid directly to a UK bank or building society account.
This is more convenient and helps reduce the risk of cheques becoming lost or delayed in the post.
To switch to this method of payment you can apply online at www.
co. uk or download a dividend mandate form from the FAQ section of the Companys website weir.
co. uk, under Shareholder Information in the Investor section.
Alternatively, you can contact Computershare, who will also be able to assist with any questions you may have.
A Consolidated Tax Voucher CTV detailing all payments made throughout the tax year will then be sent you once a year either electronically or to your registered address.
In 2013, the CTV will be dispatched with the November 2013 dividend payment and contain the tax and payment information for dividends paid during the 2013 2014 tax year.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP The Company offers shareholders the opportunity to join the Computershare regulated DRIP to use their dividend to purchase further Weir Group shares.
Instead of receiving cash, shareholders receive as many whole shares as can be bought with their dividend, taking into account related purchase costs.
Any residual cash will be carried forward and added to their next dividend.
If you wish to participate in the DRIP, you can apply online at www.
co. uk or alternatively, you can complete a DRIP mandate form obtainable from Computershare.
Global Payment Service If you live overseas, Computershare offers a Global Payment Service which is available in certain countries.
This may make it possible to receive dividends direct into your bank account in your local currency.
Please note that a payment charge would be deducted from each individual payment before conversion into your local currency.
This service can be set up at www.
co. uk or by contacting Computershare.
Capital gains tax For the purpose of capital gains tax, the market value of an ordinary share of The Weir Group PLC as at 31 March 1982 was 29.75p.
This market value has been adjusted to take account of the sub-division of the share capital whereby each ordinary share of 25p was sub-divided into two ordinary shares of 12.5p each on 28 June 1993.
Rights issues of ordinary shares took place in April 1987 at 157p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every seven ordinary shares held, in July 1990 at 250p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every five ordinary shares held and in September 1994 at 252p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every four ordinary shares held.
152 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 I II Communications III Annual and Interim Reports The Weir Group publishes an Annual and Interim Report every year.
The Annual Report is sent to all shareholders who have elected to receive a hard copy through the post as a printed document unless the shareholder has chosen to receive e-communications see below.
The Interim Report is published on the Companys website and a printed copy is available from the Company Secretary on request.
IV E-communications The Company offers shareholders the opportunity to access shareholder documents, such as Annual Reports and Notices of the AGM, via e-communications rather than receiving printed documents in the post.
To sign up for e-communications, please register at www.
In order to do this, you will need your SRN which can be found on your share certicate or on your dividend tax voucher.
Once registered, you will need to change your mailing preference to e-communications and provide your email address.
We will then be able to notify you by email as soon as shareholder documents are available on the Companys website.
Company website Shareholders are encouraged to visit the Companys corporate website weir.
co. uk, which contains a wealth of information about the Weir Group.
The website includes information about the markets in which we operate, our strategy and business performance, recent news from the Group and product information.
The Investor section is a key source of information for shareholders, containing details on the share price, our financial results, shareholder meetings and dividends, as well as a Frequently asked questions section.
Current and past Annual and Interim Reports are also available to view and download.
Share dealing services Computershare provide Weir Group shareholders with a quick and easy way to buy or sell Weir Group shares on the London Stock Exchange.
Internet share dealing commission is 1%, subject to a minimum charge of 30.
In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
There is no need to open a trading account in order to deal.
Real time dealing is available during market hours 08:00 to 16:30 Monday to Friday excluding bank holidays.
In addition, there is a convenient facility to place your order outside of market hours.
Up to 90 day limit orders are available for sales.
To access the service, log on to www-uk.
Shareholders should have their SRN available.
The SRN appears on share certicates and tax dividend vouchers.
Please note that, at present, this service is only available to shareholders in certain European jurisdictions.
Please refer to the Computershare website for an up-to-date list of these countries.
Telephone share dealing commission is 1%, plus 35.
You can contact Computershare on 0870 703 0084.
Shareholders should have their SRN ready when making the call.
Detailed terms and conditions are available on request by telephoning 0870 707 1402.
Please note this service is, at present, only available to shareholders resident in the UK and Ireland.
These services are offered on an execution only basis and subject to the applicable terms and conditions.
Computershare Investor Services plc is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
This is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold shares in The Weir Group PLC.
Shareholders who are unsure of what action to take should obtain independent financial advice.
Share values may go down as well as up which may result in a shareholder receiving less than he she originally invested.
Voting Information on how you can vote electronically can be obtained through our registrars by visiting www.
Shareholder alerts Unsolicited investment advice and fraud Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
Share scams are often run from boiler rooms where fraudsters cold-call investors offering them worthless, overpriced or even non-existent shares.
These callers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and their activities have resulted in considerable losses for some investors.
Whilst usually by telephone, the high-pressure sales tactics can also come by email, post, word of mouth or at a seminar.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, sell your shares at a premium or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and take a note of any other details they provide, such as a telephone number or address.
Check that the caller is properly authorised by the Finance Services Authority FSA by visiting www.
Report any approach from such organisations to the FSA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can also nd out about the latest investment scams.
You can also call the Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234.
Please note that if you deal with an unauthorised rm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 153
