1 1 O Ov five er rv viie ew w 2 2 D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t a an nd d b bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w 3 3 G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e 4 4 F Fiin na an nc ciia al l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Governance Corporate governance, AGM and other matters Corporate governance, AGM and other matters Introduction from the Chairman Number of meetings The Board of the Company is committed to achieving the highest Board membership attended standards of corporate governance.
As Chairman, my role is to Walker Boyd 9 of 9 run the Board to ensure that the Company operates effectively Steve Clarke 2 of 2 and ensure that the Board has the right balance of skills and Mike Ellis 9 of 9 experience to assess, manage and mitigate risks.
Drummond Hall 9 of 9 This report, which forms part of the Directors Report and the Jeff Harris 6 of 8 Directors Remuneration Report, provides details of how the Robert Moorhead 9 of 9 Company has applied the principles of and complied with the UK Henry Staunton 7 of 9 Corporate Governance Code the Code.
A copy of the Code is Kate Swann 9 of 9 available publicly from www.
The Board confirms that the Company has complied with the principles of the Code 1 Steve Clarke was appointed as a director of the Company on 1 June 2012.
2 throughout the financial year ended 31 August 2012.
This report Jeff Harris resigned as a director of the Company on 10 July 2012.
Jeff Harris was unable to attend two meetings of the Board.
He received the agendas and papers for the meetings and also includes the information that is required by Disclosure and gave comments in advance of the meetings.
Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 to be contained in the Companys 3 Henry Staunton was unable to attend two meetings of the Board.
He received the agendas and Corporate governance statement.
papers for the meetings and gave comments in advance of the meetings.
Walker Boyd The Board has met twice since 31 August 2012 and all the current Chairman directors attended both meetings.
11 October 2012 The Board manages the Company through a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
These include overall management of the Company: approval of strategic plans Board of Directors including acquisitions and disposals: approval of the Companys commercial strategy and operating and capital expenditure On 11 October 2012, the Board comprised the Chairman, three budgets: approval of the Annual Report and Financial executive directors and three independent non-executive Statements, material agreements and non-recurring projects: directors.
Short biographies of each of the directors, which treasury policy: control, audit and risk management: illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 31.
There remuneration: and corporate responsibility.
is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company: Walker Boyd Chairman being responsible for running the Board All directors have access to the advice and services of the and Kate Swann Group Chief Executive being responsible for Company Secretary and may take independent professional implementing strategy.
Jeff Harris performed the role of Senior advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their Independent Director until his resignation on 10 July 2012.
The Board receives appropriate and timely information, Staunton was appointed as Senior Independent Director on 1 Board and Committee papers normally being sent out several August 2012.
The Board structure ensures that no individual or days before meetings take place.
All newly appointed directors group dominates the decision making process.
receive induction training on joining the Board which is tailored to meet the needs of the individual, including store visits and All the directors served throughout the period except as set out meetings with employees across the businesses and external below: advisers.
The need for director training is regularly assessed by Steve Clarke was appointed as an executive director on 1 June the Board.
The performance of the Board and its Committees is a Jeff Harris resigned as a non-executive director on 10 July 2012. fundamental component of the Companys success.
The Board regularly reviews its own performance and carried out a formal All of the non-executive directors who served during the year and evaluation in September 2012.
The evaluation was co-ordinated up to the date of this report are considered by the Board to be and directed by the Chairman with the support of the Company independent.
A questionnaire was prepared by the Chairman and The Board met nine times during the year.
It is expected that all the Company Secretary and formed the basis of in-depth directors attend Board and Committee meetings, unless they are interviews with each director.
The main areas considered by the prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
All directors are evaluation were performance, composition, expertise and expected to attend the Annual General Meeting AGM.
The results of the assessment were considered by the directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive the papers Board, and confirmed the strength of the management of the for that meeting giving them the opportunity to raise any issues Company, a sound governance framework and practices and give any comments to the Chairman in advance of the compliant with the Code.
As a result of the review, the Board meeting.
Following the meeting the Chairman briefs any member agreed an action plan which included a number of steps to not present on the discussions and any decisions taken at the improve its procedures and effectiveness.
The following table shows the number of Board meetings held during the year ended 31 August 2012 and the attendance record of individual directors.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 21 Governance Corporate governance, AGM and other matters Corporate governance, AGM and other matters continued In accordance with the Code the Board will undertake an external Board Committees review within the next 12 months as the Company seeks to Audit Committee further enhance the effectiveness of the Board.
Annual reviews of the performance of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees have also been carried out as part of the Board evaluation.
These reviews have confirmed that each Committee continues to operate effectively.
The Group Chief Executive reviews the performance of the Executive Directors and other senior executives.
The Chairman reviews the performance of the Group Chief Executive and each non-executive director.
During the year, the Chairman had regular meetings with the non-executive directors, without the Chair: Mike Ellis executive directors present, to discuss Board issues and how to build the best possible team.
The Senior Independent Director met with the directors in the absence of the Chairman, to assess Audit Committee Report the Chairmans performance.
Dear Shareholder Under the Companys Articles of Association, directors are As Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present my required to retire and submit themselves for re-election every report on the activities of the Audit Committee for the financial year three years and new directors appointed by the Board offer ended 31 August 2012.
Our principal objectives are to provide themselves for election at the next AGM following their effective financial governance in respect of the Groups financial appointment.
However, in accordance with the Code, the Board results, the performance of both the internal audit function and the has agreed that all directors will stand for election or re-election external auditor, and the management of the Groups systems of at the AGM to be held on 23 January 2013.
Biographies of all the internal control, business risks and related compliance activities.
directors are set out on page 31 of this Annual Report and arealsoavailable for viewing on the Companys website The other members of the Committee are Drummond Hall and www.
Henry Staunton who are independent non-executive directors.
The Board considers that I have recent and relevant financial The Companys Articles of Association give a power to the Board experience, as required by the Code.
Jeff Harris served on the to appoint directors and, where notice is given and signed by all Committee during the year until his resignation from the Board the other directors, to remove a director from office.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman Companys Articles of Association themselves may be amended of the Board, the Group Finance Director, the Internal Audit by special resolution of the shareholders.
Director and representatives of the external auditors regularly The interests of the directors and their immediate families in the attend meetings.
The Committee has regular private meetings share capital of the Company, along with details of directors with the external and internal auditors during the year.
share options and awards, are contained in the Remuneration The Committee met four times during the year.
It is expected that report on pages 32 to 40. all Committee members attend meetings, unless they are At no time during the year did any of the directors have a material prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
The following interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its table shows the number of meetings held during the year ended subsidiaries.
31 August 2012 and the attendance record of individual directors.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance Number of which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against meetings Committee membership attended its directors.
The Company has also provided an indemnity for its directors, which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision for Mike Ellis 4 of 4 the purposes of Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
Drummond Hall 4 of 4 Jeff Harris 4 of 4 The Board delegates specific responsibilities to the Board Henry Staunton 3 of 4 Committees detailed on the following pages, the role and 1 Walker Boyd and Robert Moorhead were invited to and attended four meetings of the Audit responsibilities of each Committee being set out in formal terms Committee.
of reference which are available on the Companys website.
2 Jeff Harris resigned as a director of the Company on 10 July 2012.
3 Henry Staunton was unable to attend one meeting of the Committee.
He received the agenda and papers for the meeting and gave comments in advance of the meeting.
WH Smith PLC 22 Annual report and accounts 2012 1 1 O Ov five er rv viie ew w 2 2 D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t a an nd d b bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w 3 3 G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e 4 4 F Fiin na an nc ciia al l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s The Audit Committee has met once since 31 August 2012 and all In line with our terms of reference, the Committee undertook a the Committee members attended the meeting.
thorough assessment of the quality, effectiveness, value and independence of the audit provided by Deloitte LLP, seeking the During the year the work of the Committee included: views and feedback of the Board, together with those of Group and divisional management.
Following our review, the Committee a review of the preliminary and interim announcements, has determined to recommend to the Board the re-appointment Annual Report and Financial Statements: of Deloitte LLP at the AGM on 23 January 2013. consideration of reports from the external auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring its attention: I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any approval of the audit plans for the external and internal auditors: questions about the work of the Committee.
consideration of reports from the Internal Audit Director on the Mike Ellis results of internal audit reviews, significant findings, Chairman of the Audit Committee management action plans and timeliness of resolution: 11 October 2012 consideration of the external auditors performance: a review of the Companys risk management process: a quarterly review of risk reports: a review of management of fraud risk: a review of the Companys Business Continuity Plans: and a review of the effectiveness of the Companys whistleblowing process.
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys financial controls and the systems of internal control by approving the Internal Audit Plans in July 2012 and by reviewing the findings quarterly, and by reviewing the scope of work and reports of the external auditors.
The Committee also reviewed the risk assessment process and corporate business risk registers throughout the year.
The risk registers outline the key risks faced by the Company including their impacts and likelihood along with the relevant mitigating controls and actions.
The external auditors reported to the Committee on their independence from the Company.
In accordance with professional standards, the partner responsible for the audit is changed every five years, and was last changed in 2009.
The Committee considers whether the audit should go out to tender but has taken the view that partner rotation at both the Group and operating business level has been sufficient to maintain the necessary independence.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Committee as to the choice of external auditors.
The Committee and the Board are satisfied that Deloitte LLP has adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence are maintained.
The Committee has also adopted a formal policy on the Companys relationship with its auditor in respect of non-audit work.
The policy is reviewed annually by the Committee.
The majority of non-audit work undertaken by Deloitte LLP in 2011 12 related to tax and turnover certificates.
The auditors may only provide such services if such advice does not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, my approval is required before the Company uses non-audit services that exceed 25,000.
For the financial year ended 31 August 2012 the non-audit fees were 73,000 and the audit fee was 261,000.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 23 Governance Corporate governance, AGM and other matters Corporate governance, AGM and other matters continued Nominations Committee Following the decision by Kate Swann to step down as Chief Executive, the Committee, in accordance with the Companys long-term succession plan, recommended that Steve Clarke, theManaging Director of the WHSmith High Street business, be appointed as Chief Executive with effect from 1 July 2013.
Steve is the unanimous choice of the Board as he has the qualities and experience to lead the Company and continue its record of delivering superior shareholder returns.
The Company continues to use the services of a number of external consultants in developing its succession plans but no formal external search was undertaken in respect of Steve Clarkes proposed appointment as Chief Executive.
Chair: Walker Boyd The Committee keeps itself updated on key developments relevant to the Company, including on the subject of diversity in Nominations Committee Report the boardroom.
The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture free from discrimination in any form and is Dear Shareholder proud of its long history of being regarded as a responsible and As Chairman of the Nominations Committee I am pleased to respected employer.
Within the Company, women account for 44 present my report on the activities of the Nominations Committee per cent of store managers and 32 per cent of senior for the financial year ended 31 August 2012.
The Committee believes in providing principal responsibility is to ensure that the Board comprises mentoring for women in senior roles to help them maximise their individuals with the requisite skills, knowledge and experience to careers at the Company.
The Committee has chosen not to set ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities and specific representation targets for women at Board level at this ensure that appropriate procedures are in place for the time.
However, I confirm that the benefits of diversity, including nomination, selection and succession of directors and senior gender diversity, will be actively considered as part of the current executives.
search for a new non-executive director following the resignation of Jeff Harris, within the overriding objective of ensuring that the The Committee comprises a majority of independent nonBoard has the appropriate balance of skills, experience and executive directors.
The members of the Committee are Mike Ellis, independence.
Drummond Hall, Henry Staunton and Kate Swann.
Jeff Harris served on the Committee during the year until his resignation from The Committee has appointed external recruitment consultants to the Board on 10 July 2012.
In the event of any matters arising assist in the process of identification of potential candidates to join concerning my membership of the Board, I would absent myself the Board and I confirm that the consultants we have appointed from the meeting as required by the Code and Henry Staunton, the have signed up to the voluntary Code of Conduct covering board Senior Independent Director, would take the Chair.
appointments established following the Davies Review.
The Committee met three times during the year.
It is expected I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any that all Committee members attend meetings, unless they are questions about the work of the Committee.
prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
The following Walker Boyd table shows the number of meetings held during the year ended Chairman of the Nominations Committee 31 August 2012 and the attendance record of individual directors.
11 October 2012 Number of meetings Committee membership attended Walker Boyd 3 of 3 Mike Ellis 3 of 3 Drummond Hall 3 of 3 Jeff Harris 2 of 3 Henry Staunton 3 of 3 Kate Swann 3 of 3 1 Jeff Harris resigned as a director of the Company on 10 July 2012.
During the year the Committee reviewed the Companys succession plans and the ongoing structure and capability of the Board.
In accordance with the Companys Board development plan, Steve Clarke, Managing Director of WHSmith High Street was appointed as an executive director on 1 June 2012.
The Committee also recommended that Henry Staunton be appointed as Senior Independent Director following the resignation of Jeff Harris.
WH Smith PLC 24 Annual report and accounts 2012 1 1 O Ov five er rv viie ew w 2 2 D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t a an nd d b bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w 3 3 G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e 4 4 F Fiin na an nc ciia al l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s The Committee met six times during the year.
It is expected that Remuneration Committee all Committee members attend meetings, unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
The following table shows the number of meetings held during the year ended 31 August 2012 and the attendance record of individual directors.
Number of meetings Committee membership attended Drummond Hall 6 of 6 Walker Boyd 6 of 6 Mike Ellis 6 of 6 Chair: Drummond Hall Jeff Harris 5 of 6 Henry Staunton 5 of 6 1 Jeff Harris resigned as a director of the Company on 10 July 2012.
2 Remuneration Committee Report Henry Staunton was unable to attend one meeting of the Committee.
3 Dear Shareholder Kate Swann was invited to and attended three meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee has met twice since 31 August As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to 2012 and all the Committee members attended both meetings.
present my report on the activities of the Remuneration Committee for the financial year ended 31 August 2012.
As ever, The Remuneration report is set out on pages 32 to 40. our remuneration policy aims to encourage a performance-based I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any culture, to attract and retain high calibre executives and align questions about the work of the Committee.
In light of the 2011 Remuneration Review we are not proposing any major changes to Drummond Hall our remuneration arrangements in 2012 13.
However, we will Chairman of the Remuneration Committee continue to monitor our approach to pay against the backdrop of 11 October 2012 evolving regulation and the wider climate on executive pay, to ensure that remuneration remains simple, aligned with our strategy and fair to Executives and shareholders.
Following the proposals made by the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills BIS in June 2012, we will seek to introduce changes to the way we present information in next years report as guidance on these proposals becomes available.
The other members of the Committee are Walker Boyd, Mike Ellis and Henry Staunton.
Jeff Harris served on the Committee during the year until his resignation from the Board on 10 July 2012.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Group Chief Executive and representatives of the Committees external independent remuneration adviser, regularly attend meetings.
The responsibilities of the Committee include: determining and agreeing with the Board the policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors and certain other senior executives: approving the design of, and targets for, any performancerelated pay schemes operated by the Company and approving the total annual payments made under such schemes: reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders: ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company, and ensuring that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised: and determining the total individual remuneration package of each executive director and other senior executives, including bonuses and share incentives.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the Chairman and the executive directors.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 25 Governance Corporate governance, AGM and other matters Corporate governance, AGM and other matters continued Risk management and internal controls ii Internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of a Financial controls internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role The Company has an established framework of internal financial of management is to implement the Boards policies on risk and control, the effectiveness of which is regularly reviewed by the control and provide assurance on compliance with these policies.
executive management and the Board.
The key elements of this Steps continue to be taken to embed internal control and risk are as follows: management further into the operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to the attention of the Board is responsible for overall Company strategy, for management and the Board.
Such a system is, however, designed approving revenue and capital budgets and plans, for approving to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve major acquisitions and disposals and for determining the business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not financial structure of the Company, including treasury and absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Monthly results, variances from plan and forecasts are reported to the Board: i Risk the Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for duties regarding the Companys financial statements, identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the accounting policies and the maintenance of proper internal Company, including those risks relating to social, environmental business, operational and financial controls.
The Committee and ethical matters.
This process was in place throughout the provides a direct link between the Board and the external year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual auditors through regular meetings: Report and meets the requirements of the guidance entitled the Internal Audit function advises and assists business Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors produced management to establish and maintain adequate financial bythe Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull Guidance.
controls and reports to the Audit Committee on the TheAudit Committee has kept under review the effectiveness effectiveness of those controls: ofthe system of internal control and has reported regularly to theBoard.
the Board has established an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and approval controls The key features of the risk management process are as follows: identifying transactions requiring approval by the Board or by the business conducts an annual risk assessment based on the Approvals Committee.
The Group Finance Director is identified business objectives which are reviewed and agreed responsible for the functional leadership and development of by the executive committee of each business.
Risks are the Companys finance activities: categorised into strategic, reputational, operational, financial there is a comprehensive system for budgeting and planning and compliance and are evaluated in respect of their potential and for monitoring and reporting the performance of the impact and likelihood.
These risk assessments are updated Companys business to the directors.
Monthly results are and reviewed quarterly by the Group and business risk reported against budget and prior year, and forecasts for the committees and are reported to the relevant business current financial year are regularly revised in light of actual executive committee and the Audit Committee: performance.
These results and forecasts cover profits, cash a Company risk assessment is also undertaken by the internal flows, capital expenditure and balance sheets: audit function, which considers all areas of potential risk the Company has established a uniform system of investment across all systems, functions and key business processes.
This appraisal: risk assessment, together with the business risk assessment, executive management has defined the financial controls and forms the basis for determining the internal audit plan.
Audit procedures with which each business is required to comply.
reports in relation to areas reviewed are discussed and agreed Key controls over major business risks include reviews against with the business risk committees and the Audit Committee: performance indicators and exception reporting, and the the internal audit team meets annually with senior executives business is required to prepare monthly management in order to complete a formal certification of the effectiveness accounts: and of internal controls.
These reports are submitted to the routine reports are prepared to cover treasury activities and business risk committees.
Certificates are also provided by the risks, for review by senior executives, and annual reports are risk committees to the Audit Committee, to assist the Board in prepared for the Board and Audit Committee covering tax, conducting its annual review of internal controls in compliance treasury policies, insurance and pensions.
As part of its annual review the Board discusses and agrees the principal risks that are included within the Annual Report.
WH Smith PLC 26 Annual report and accounts 2012 1 1 O Ov five er rv viie ew w 2 2 D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t a an nd d b bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w 3 3 G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e 4 4 F Fiin na an nc ciia al l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s b Non-financial controls Relations with shareholders The Boards primary role is to promote the success of the The Company has established a wide range of non-financial Company and the interests of shareholders.
The Board is controls covering areas such as health and safety, the accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities environment, ethical trading, employment and business ofthe Group.
The Company recognises the importance of continuity, the effectiveness of which are regularly reviewed by communicating with its shareholders to ensure that its strategy the executive management and the Board.
The key elements are and performance are understood.
This is achieved principally as follows: through the Annual Report and accounts and the AGM.
In a corporate responsibility strategy was approved by the Board, addition, a range of corporate information, including all Company including objectives and targets to address the impact that our announcements and presentations, is available to investors on activities have on the environment, workplace, marketplace the Companys website, www.
and community: Formal presentations are made to institutional shareholders clear accountability for corporate responsibility issues has following the announcement of the Companys full year and been defined at Board and operational level: interim results.
The Board recognises that the AGM is the annual updates are submitted to the Board on each aspect of principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
All corporate responsibility: directors normally attend the AGM and are available to answer the Board is committed to maintaining high standards of health any questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
and safety in all its business activities.
These standards are set The Notice of Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working out in the Companys Health and Safety Policy which is days before the meeting.
Those shareholders who have elected to regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Risk Management team receive electronic communications receive notice of the works with the business to assess health and safety risks and availability of the Annual Report on the Companys website.
The introduce systems to mitigate them.
All notified accidents are deadline for appointing a proxy is 48 hours before the time fixed investigated and targets are set to reduce the level of incidence: for the meeting although, in calculating this period, no account is the Board has approved an Environmental Policy and sets taken of non-working days.
environmental objectives and specific targets which are Shareholders vote on each resolution on a show of hands, unless reviewed annually: a poll is validly called, and after each such vote the number of the Board is committed to ensuring reasonable standards proxy votes received for, against, and withheld is announced.
among its suppliers and has approved an Ethical Trading Code Theproxy figures are made available in writing at the end of the of Conduct setting out the standards it expects its partners and meeting, announced to the London Stock Exchange and published suppliers to adopt.
This policy covers health and safety, child on the Companys website.
labour, working hours, discrimination and the environment: The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views and the Company is committed to ensuring that its personnel meet concerns of major shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and good standards of integrity and competence.
The Companys Group Finance Director update the Board following meetings with systems cover the recruitment, training and development of major shareholders and analysts briefings are circulated to the personnel, an appropriate division of responsibilities and the Board.
The Head of Investor Relations also carries out a regular communication of Company policies and procedures programme of work and reports to the Board the views and throughout the organisation: and information needs of institutional and major investors.
This is Business Recovery Plans exist to enable the business to part of the regular contact that the Group maintains with its continue in the event of a disaster with minimum disruption institutional shareholders.
When requested to do so, the tocustomers.
Chairman and non-executive directors attend meetings with Anti-corruption major shareholders.
The Bribery Act came into force in July 2011.
The Company has Compliance with the Code enhanced its policies and procedures in order to meet the Throughout the year ended 31 August 2012 the Company has requirements of the Act.
These policies and procedures include been in compliance with the provisions of the Code.
training for individuals to ensure awareness of acts that might be construed as contravening the Act.
The Groups anti-corruption policy is included on the corporate website, www.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 27 Governance Corporate governance, AGM and other matters Corporate governance, AGM and other matters continued Dividends Purchase of own shares The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for the At the 2012 AGM, authority was given for the Company to year of 18.6p per ordinary share on 31 January 2013 to members purchase, in the market, up to 20,763,024 ordinary shares of 6 on the Register at the close of business on 4 January 2013.
The Company used this authority to purchase and final dividend and the interim dividend of 8.3p per ordinary share subsequently cancel 9,393,040 of its own shares during the paid on 18 July 2012 makes a total dividend of 26.9p per ordinary financial year, representing 7.2 per cent of the issued share share for the year ended 31 August 2012. capital, at an average price of 529p.
The aggregate amount of consideration including costs paid by the Company for the Share capital purchases was 50m.
This authority is renewable annually and The issued share capital of the Company, together with details approval will be sought from shareholders at the AGM in 2013 to ofshares issued during the year, are shown in Note 24 to the renew the authority for a further year.
On 23 August 2012 the Company announced its intention to make The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 August 2012 a further return of up to 50m of cash to shareholders via a 6 was 130,059,573 ordinary shares of 22 67p each.
These shares rolling share buyback programme.
During the period are listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in 1September 2012 to 11 October 2012 the Company purchased certificated or uncertificated form.
and subsequently cancelled a further 278,000 of its own shares representing 0.21 per cent of the called-up share capital, at an The Company is not aware of any agreements between average price of 625p.
The aggregate amount of consideration shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of including costs paid by the Company for the purchases was 2m.
Issue of new ordinary shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the During the financial year ended 31 August 2012, 296,493 ordinary Company other than certain restrictions imposed by laws and shares of the Company were issued under the Sharesave Scheme regulations such as insider trading laws and market at prices between 295.20p and 426.80p.
The Articles of requirements relating to close periods and requirements of Association of the Company provide that the Board may, subject theListing Rules whereby directors and certain employees of to the prior approval of the members of the Company, be granted theCompany require Board approval to deal in the authority to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot Companyssecurities.
shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, including new ordinary shares.
shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which Significant agreements change of control can be obtained from the Companys website, A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may www.
The holders of ordinary shares are cause a number of agreements to which the Company or its entitled to receive the Companys report and accounts, to attend trading subsidiaries, WH Smith High Street Limited and WH and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies Smith Travel Limited, is party, such as commercial trading and to exercise voting rights, and to receive a dividend subject to contracts, banking arrangements, property leases, licence and the deduction of any sums due from the holder of ordinary shares concession agreements to take effect, alter or terminate.
In to the Company on account of calls or otherwise.
Changes to the addition, the executive directors service agreements and Companys Articles of Association must be approved by special employee share plans would be similarly affected on a change of resolution of the Company.
control, including, in the case of some of the directors, in relation to compensation for loss of office.
The Trustee of the WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust holds ordinary shares in the Company on behalf of the beneficiaries of Details of the change of control clause contained in the service the Trust, who are the employees and former employees of the contracts of the executive directors can be found in the Group.
If any offer is made to the holders of ordinary shares to Remuneration report on page 36. acquire their shares, the Trustee will not be obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares which are at that time subject to subsisting options, but will have regard to the interests of the option holders and can consult them to obtain their views on the offer, and subject to the foregoing, the Trustee will take the action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
WH Smith PLC 28 Annual report and accounts 2012 1 1 O Ov five er rv viie ew w 2 2 D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t a an nd d b bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w 3 3 G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e 4 4 F Fiin na an nc ciia al l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s The Directors report that they have reviewed current Directors conflicts performance and forecasts, combined with expenditure The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to commitments, including capital expenditure, proposed dividends consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a director and share buyback, and borrowing facilities.
After making has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
The Board has a Group has adequate financial resources to continue its current formal system in place for directors to declare Situational operations, including contractual and commercial commitments Conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those directors for the foreseeable future despite the current uncertain economic who have no interest in the matter being considered.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the going whether to authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
directors must act in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company, and they Auditors may impose limits or conditions when giving the authorisation, or Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Any Situational auditors of the Company.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP Conflicts considered by the Board, and any authorisations given, as auditors to the Company and a resolution to authorise the are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of conflicts directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at which is reviewed regularly by the Board.
Companys shareholders Disclosure of information to auditors The Company has been notified in accordance with the Disclosure Having made the requisite enquiries, as far as each of the and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority that, directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as as at the date of this report, the following shareholders own more defined in Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the than three per cent of the issued share capital of the Company: Companys auditors are unaware, and each of the directors has % as at taken all steps he or she should have taken as a director in order date of Nature to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit Holder Number notification of Holding information and to establish that the Companys auditors are Lloyds Banking Group plc 10,372,477 7.98 Indirect aware of that information.
Artemis Investment Annual General Meeting Management LLP 6,849,281 4.99 Direct The AGM of the Company will be held at Allen & Overy LLP, One Jupiter Asset Management Bishops Square, London E1 6AD on 23 January 2013 at 11.30am.
Limited 7,787,536 4.96 Indirect The Notice of Annual General Meeting is given, together with JP Morgan Chase &Co. 7,428,306 4.74 Indirect explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
Except for the above, the Company is not aware of any ordinary This report was approved by the Board on 11 October 2012. shareholders with interests of three per cent or more in the issued share capital of the Company.
By order of the Board Financial risk management Ian Houghton The financial risk management and policies of the Group are Company Secretary disclosed in Note 23 of the Accounts.
11 October 2012 Going concern The Groups business activities together with the factors that are likely to affect its future developments, performance and position are set out in this Directors report and business review.
This Directors report and business review also describes the Groups financial position, cash flows and borrowing facilities, further information on which is detailed in Notes 20 to 23 of the Accounts.
In addition, Note 23 of the Accounts includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Directors report and business review also highlights the principal risks and uncertainties facing theGroup.
The Group continues to be highly cash generative and has a committed multi-currency revolving credit facility of 70m.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 29
