co. uk Corporate governance Introduction from Anthony Habgood, Chairman Simon Barratt, General Counsel and Company Secretary As I mentioned in my statement on page 3, I believe The new UK Corporate Governance Code CG Code that corporate governance is not simply something came into effect in 2010 and 2011 12 was the first for the Board to consider as an agenda item at our financial year in which it was applicable to Whitbread.
For me, corporate governance is This is the key source of guidance on corporate something that touches all aspects of our business governance matters.
In light of the CG Code, and and affects all of our employees in many different ways.
as part of our commitment to high standards of governance, we undertook a thorough review of At an executive level this includes managers ensuring Whitbreads corporate governance arrangements that decisions are taken by the right people in the including reviewing our: Company in accordance with the schedule of matters overall compliance with the CG Code with reserved to the Board and other relevant policies.
respect to business and corporate practices: matters reserved to the Board: and For our employees this includes having access to terms of reference for each of the three Board our whistleblowing system so that any potential committees.
problems can be raised in confidence through independent channels.
The results of this review were presented at the January Board meeting and formally adopted by Although corporate governance flows through all of the Board.
During the year the Company complied our operations, the Board takes responsibility for with all provisions set out in the CG Code.
leading on high standards of accountability and ethical behaviours.
During this year key governance activities Details of how Whitbread has applied the main and have included: supporting principles of the CG Code with regard to a review of the Companys compliance with the remuneration can be found in the remuneration report updated UK Corporate Governance Code which on pages 35 to 44.
Details of the membership and came into force for financial years commencing activities of the Remuneration Committee can be on or after 29 June 2010: found on page 37. an evaluation of the Board by an independent external consultant: In addition to this, a new global code of conduct a talent review and succession plan for key has been adopted to take into account the 2010 executive roles: UK Bribery Act and has been briefed to employees.
a Nomination Committee review of the Board composition and completion of a recruitment The information below sets out Whitbreads compliance process resulting in the appointment of two in the following areas: new non-executive directors: and The Board: the Audit Committees review of the external Shareholder relations: and operational audits.
Internal control: and Board committees.
I am proud of our core commitment to high standards of governance as this is key to supporting our financial performance and protecting your Company.
Simon Barratt our General Counsel and Company Secretary provides further details below on how Whitbread complied this year with corporate governance requirements.
