At 1 March 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Authorisation of financial statements The consolidated financial statements of Whitbread PLC for the year ended 1 March 2012 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 25 April 2012.
Whitbread PLC is a public limited company incorporated and fully domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The significant activities of the Group are described in note 4, Segment Information.
2 Accounting policies Basis of accounting and preparation The consolidated financial statements of Whitbread PLC and all its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union and as applied inaccordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand except when otherwise indicated.
The significant accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are consistent withthose followed in the preparation of the Group's annual financial statements for the year ended 3 March 2011, except for the definition of underlying profit which is noted in the policy on non GAAP performance measures, the presentation of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income noted below and the adoption of the following new Standards and Interpretations that are applicable for the year ended 1 March 2012.
In the current year, the directors have elected to voluntarily change the presentation of the Consolidated Statement ofComprehensive Income to present those items of other comprehensive income which could be reclassified to profit or loss at a future point separately from those items which will never be reclassified.
The directors consider that the change provides additional information and allows users to more easily identify the potential impact of items within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Comparatives have been restated accordingly.
This change ispresentational only and has no impact on the Groups reported income in the current or prior period.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amendment The amended standard clarifies the definition of a related party to simplify the identification of such relationships and to eliminate inconsistencies in its application.
There is no impact on the Group's financial position or performance.
IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Amendment The amendment provides guidance on assessing the recoverable amount of a net pension asset.
It permits an entity totreat the prepayment of a minimum funding requirement as an asset.
The adoption of this interpretation has had no effect on the financial statements of the Group.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the accounts of Whitbread PLC and all its subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the net assets and results of joint ventures and associates incorporated using the equity method of accounting.
These are adjusted, where appropriate, to conform to Group accounting policies.
The financial statements of material subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company.
Apart from the acquisition of Whitbread Group PLC by Whitbread PLC in 2000 1, which was accounted for using merger accounting, acquisitions by the Group are accounted for under the acquisition method and any goodwill arising is capitalised as an intangible asset.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from or up to the date that control passes respectively.
All intraGroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Significant accounting policies Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition is capitalised and represents the excess of the fair value of consideration over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently, if events or changes in circumstances indicate thatthe carrying value may be impaired.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included inthe determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
co. uk At 1 March 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Accounting policies continued Intangible assets continued Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried initially at cost.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside of goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights, and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the asset as follows: Trading licences have an infinite life Brand assets are amortised over periods of two to 15 years I T software and technology are amortised over periods of three to 10 years The asset in relation to acquired customer relationships is amortised over 15 years F ranchise fee and brand name agreements are amortised over periods up to 15 years.
Amortisation is reported within administrative expenses in the income statement.
The carrying values are reviewed forimpairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that they may not be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment Prior to the 1999 2000 financial year, properties were regularly revalued on a cyclical basis.
Since this date the Group policy has been not to revalue its properties and, while previous valuations have been retained, they have not been updated.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected to use the UK GAAP revaluations before the date of transition to IFRS as deemed cost at the date of transition.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost at transition to IFRS, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Gross interest costs incurred on the financing of qualifying assets are capitalised until the time that the projects are available for use.
Depreciation iscalculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Freehold land is not depreciated F reehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated to their estimated residual values over periods up to 50 years Plant and equipment is depreciated over three to 30 years.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying values may not be recoverable.
Any impairment in the value of property, plant and equipment is charged to the income statement.
Profits and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment reflect the difference between net selling price and the carrying amount at the date of disposal and are recognised in the income statement.
Payments made on entering into or acquiring leaseholds that are accounted for as operating leases represent prepaid lease payments.
These are amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Impairment The Group assesses assets or groups of assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
Individual assets are grouped for impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level at which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets cash generating units or CGUs.
If such indication of impairment exists or when annual impairment testing for an asset group is required, the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the CGUs recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
After such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets carrying amount, less any residual value, on a straight-line basis over its remaining useful life.
The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined with reference to the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in the administrative and distribution line items.
54 2 Accounting policies continued Impairment continued An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable amount.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amounts of other assets in the CGU on a pro-rata basis.
For the purposes of impairment testing, all centrally held assets are allocated in line with IAS 36 to CGUs based onmanagements view of the consumption of the asset.
Any resulting impairment is recorded against the centrally held asset.
Goodwill and intangibles Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to groups of CGUs at the level management monitor goodwill, which is at strategic business unit level.
The Group performs an annual review of its goodwill to ensure that its carrying amount is not greater than its recoverable amount.
In the absence of a comparable recent market transaction that demonstrates that the fair value less costs to sell of goodwill and intangible assets exceeds their carrying amount, the recoverable amount is determined from value in use calculations.
An impairment is then made to reduce the carrying amount to the higher of the fair value less the cost to sell and the value in use.
Property, plant and equipment For the purposes of the impairment review of property, plant and equipment the Group considers CGUs to be each trading outlet.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Consideration is also given, where appropriate, to the market value of the asset, either from independent sources or in conjunction with an accepted industry valuation methodology.
Assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale only if available for immediate sale in their present condition and a sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification.
Such assets are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less the cost to sell and arenot depreciated or amortised.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is calculated on the basis of first in, first out and net realisable value is the estimated selling price less any costs of disposal.
Provisions Provisions for warranties, onerous contracts and restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, when it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and when a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are discounted to present value, where the effect is material, using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
The amortisation of thediscount is recognised as a finance cost.
Non GAAP performance measure In order for this measure to reflect the underlying performance of the Group the measure has been refined to include the amortisation on acquired intangibles.
The face of the income statement presents underlying profit before tax and reconciles this to profit before tax as required to be presented under the applicable accounting standards.
Underlying earnings per share is calculated having adjusted profit after tax on the same basis.
The term underlying profit is not defined under IFRSs and may not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measurements of profit.
The adjustments made to reported profit in the income statement in order to present an underlying performance measure include: Exceptional items The Group includes in non GAAP performance measures those items which are exceptional by virtue of their size or incidence so as to allow a better understanding of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
The Group also includes the profit or loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, property reversions, profit or loss on the sale of a business, impairment and exceptional interest and tax.
co. uk At 1 March 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Accounting policies continued IAS 19 Income Statement finance charge credit for defined benefit pension schemes Underlying profit excludes the finance cost revenue element of IAS 19.
Amortisation charge on acquired intangible assets Underlying profit excludes the amortisation charge on acquired intangible assets.
Taxation The tax impact of the above items is also excluded in arriving at underlying earnings.
Foreign currency translation Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange quoted at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of initial transactions.
Trading results are translated into the functional currency generally sterling at average rates of exchange for the year.
Day to day transactions in a foreign currency are recorded in the functional currency at an average rate for the month in which those transactions take place, which is used as a reasonable approximation to the actual transaction rate.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to the income statement except where they are part of a net foreign investment hedge, in which case translation differences are reported in other comprehensive income.
The differences that arise from translating the results of foreign entities at average rates of exchange, and their assets and liabilities at closing rates, are also dealt with in a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
All other currency gains and losses are dealt with in the income statement.
A number of subsidiaries within the Group have a non-sterling functional currency.
These are translated into sterling in the Group accounts.
Balance sheet items are translated at the rate applicable at the balance sheet date.
Transactions reported in the income statement are translated using an average rate for the month in which they occur.
Revenue recognition Generally, revenue is the value of goods and services sold to third parties as part of the Groups trading activities, after deducting discounts and sales-based taxes.
The following is a description of the composition of revenues of theGroup: Rendering of services Owned hotel revenue, including the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from a network of hotels, is recognised when rooms are occupied and food and beverages are sold.
Revenue from franchise fees received in connection with the franchise of the Groups brand names is recognised when earned.
Under IFRIC 13, a portion of revenue equal to the fair value of the reward earned under the 'Great Night Giveaway' scheme is deferred until the reward is recognised.
Royalties Royalties are recognised as the income is earned.
Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of food and beverages is recognised when they are sold.
Under IFRIC 13, a portion of revenue equal to the fair value of the reward points earned under Costa loyalty card transactions is deferred until those points are redeemed.
Finance revenue Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues, using the effective interest method.
Leases Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Rental payments in respect of operating leases are charged against operating profit on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental costs over the lease term.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, except for gross interest costs incurred on the financing of major projects, which are capitalised until the time that the projects are available for use.
Retirement benefits In respect of defined benefit pension schemes, the obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for any unrecognised past service cost, reduced by the fair value of the scheme assets.
The cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
56 2 Accounting policies continued Retirement benefits continued For defined benefit plans, the employers portion of the past and current service cost is charged to operating profit, with the interest cost net of expected return on assets in the plans reported within finance costs.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long-term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
Curtailments and settlements relating to the Groups defined benefit plan are recognised in the period in which the curtailment or settlement occurs.
Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Share-based payment transactions Equity-settled transactions Certain employees and directors of the Group receive equity-settled remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value, determined using a stochastic model, at the date at which they are granted.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions or non-vesting conditions are fulfilled, ending on the relevant vesting date.
Except for awards subject to market-related conditions for vesting, the cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired, and is adjusted to reflect the directors best available estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The income statement charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
If options aresubject to market-related conditions, awards are not cumulatively adjusted for the likelihood of these targets beingmet.
Instead these conditions are included in the fair value of the awards.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
Cash-settled transactions The cost is fair valued at grant date and expensed over the period until the vesting date with a recognition of a corresponding liability.
The liability is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date up to and including the settlement date, with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss for the period.
Tax The income tax charge represents both the income tax payable, based on profits for the year, and deferred income tax.
Deferred income tax is recognised in full, using the liability method, in respect of temporary differences between the tax base of the Groups assets and liabilities, and their carrying amounts, that have originated but have not been reversed by the balance sheet date.
No deferred tax is recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is recognised in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income if it relates to items that are charged or credited toother comprehensive income.
Similarly income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are charged or credited directly to equity.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Treasury shares Own equity instruments which are held by the Group treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
co. uk At 1 March 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Accounting policies continued Investments in joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are established through an interest in a company a jointly controlled entity.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given and including acquisition charges associated with the investment.
After initial recognition, investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method.
Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and liabilities The recognition of financial assets and liabilities occurs when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The derecognition of financial assets takes place when the Group no longer has the right to cash flows, the risks and rewards of ownership, or control of the asset.
The derecognition of financial liabilities occurs when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Financial Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Some assets held by the Group are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
On initial recognition these assets are recognised at fair value.
Subsequent measurement is also at fair value with changes recognised through finance revenue or costs in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less any uncollectable amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off whenidentified.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Derivative financial instruments The Group enters into derivative transactions with a view to managing interest risks associated with underlying business activities and the financing of those activities.
Derivative financial instruments used by the Group are stated at fair value on initial recognition and at subsequent balance sheet dates.
Cash flow hedges hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
Fair value hedges hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment and include foreign currency swaps.
Hedge accounting is only used where, at the inception of the hedge, there is formal designation and documentation ofthe hedging relationship, it meets the Groups risk management objective strategy for undertaking the hedge and itis expected to be highly effective.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
The portion of any gains or losses of cash flow hedges, which meet the conditions for hedge accounting and are determined to be effective hedges, is recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The change in fair value of a fair value hedging derivative is recognised in the income statement in finance costs.
Thechange in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk is also recognised inthe income statement within finance costs.
When a firm commitment that is hedged becomes an asset or a liability recognised on the balance sheet, then, at thetime the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the transaction that results from a firm commitment that is hedged affects the income statement.
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
58 2 Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments continued Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised or no longerqualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, for cash flow hedges, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
When a fair value hedge item is derecognised, the unamortised fair value is recognised immediately intheincome statement.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received net of any directly associated issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently recorded at amortised cost, with any difference between the amount initially recorded and the redemption value recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates Key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation, at the balance sheet date have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
The main assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty are outlined below: An impairment test of tangible and intangible assets is undertaken each year on both an EBITDA multiple approach and a discounted cashflow approach.
Note 15 describes the assumptions used together with an analysis of the sensitivity to changes in key assumptions.
Judgement involving estimates is used in determining the value of provisions carried for onerous contracts.
This is primarily based around assumptions on rent and property related costs for the period the property is vacant and then assumptions over future rental incomes or potential reverse lease premiums paid.
Note 24 provides details of the value of the provision carried.
Defined benefit pension plans are accounted for in accordance with actuarial advice using the projected unit creditmethod.
Note 32 describes the assumptions used together with an analysis of the sensitivity to changes in keyassumptions.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority.
The final resolution of certain of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
Corporation tax is calculated on the basis of income before taxation, taking into account the relevant local tax rates and regulations.
For each operating entity, the current income tax expense is calculated and differences between the accounting and tax base are determined, resulting in deferred tax assets or liabilities.
Assumptions are also made around the assets which qualify for capital allowances and the level of disallowable expenses and this affects the income tax calculation.
Provisions are also made for uncertain exposures which can have an impact on both deferred and current tax.
A deferred tax asset shall be recognised for the carry forward of unused tax losses, pension deficits and unused tax credits to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses and unused tax credits can be utilised.
Detailed amounts of the carrying value of corporation and deferred tax can be found in note 9.
Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB not effective for the current year and notearly adopted by the Group The following standards and interpretations, which have been issued by the IASB and are relevant for the Group, become effective after the current year end and have not been early adopted by the Group: IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income The amendment provides guidance on the requirement for entities to group items presented in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income OCI on the basis of whether they can be reclassified to profit and loss subsequently.
This amendment results in a change in the format of the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income only and becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
co. uk At 1 March 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Accounting policies continued IAS 19 Employee Benefits Amendment The IASB has issued numerous amendments to IAS 19.
These range from fundamental changes such as removing the corridor mechanism and the concept of expected returns on plan assets to simple clarifications and rewording.
The impact on the Group is on disclosure in the financial statements but there will also be an impact on the income statement due to the change in interest rate used to calculate the return on assets.
The amendment becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements as revised in 2011 As a consequence of the new IFRS 10 and IFRS 12, what remains of IAS 27 is limited to accounting for subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities, and associates in separate financial statements.
The Group does not present separate financial statements and so there will be no impact.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures as revised in 2011 As a consequence of the new IFRS 11 and IFRS 12.
IAS 28 has been renamed IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, and describes the application of the equity method to investments in joint ventures in addition toassociates.
As the Group already consolidates using the equity method this will have no impact onthefinancial statements.
Theamendment becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities The amendment requires that, if financial assets and liabilities have the right of set off, and we would account as such then disclosure is required to explain what asset has been derecognised and the reasons for doing so.
In addition, the amendment requires disclosures about the continuation of set off to enable the user to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, the entitys continuing involvement in those derecognised assets.
The Group, under IAS 39, offsets assets and liabilities and therefore will be required to provide disclosure of this in the financial statements going forward but there will be no impact on the Group's financial position or performance.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement IFRS 9 as issued reflects the first phase of the IASB's work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as defined in IAS 39.
In subsequent phases, the IASB will address hedge accounting and impairment of financial assets.
The completion of this project is expected over the course of 2012.
The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the classification and measurement of the Groups financial assets, but will potentially have no impact on classification and measurements of financial liabilities.
The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 10 replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that addresses the accountingfor consolidated financial statements.
It also includes the issues raised in SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
The Group has reviewed the current structure and does not believe that this will have any impact on the financial statements.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Jointly-controlled Entities Non-monetary Contributions by Venturers.
IFRS 11 removes the option to account for jointly controlled entities JCEs using proportionate consolidation.
Instead, JCEs that meet the definition of a joint venture must be accounted for using the equity method.
The application of this new standard will not impact the financial position of the Group as our investments areJoint Ventures not Joint Arrangements and as such we account for under the equity method already.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities IFRS 12 includes all of the disclosures that were previously in IAS 27 related to consolidated financial statements, as well as all of the disclosures that were previously included in IAS 31 and IAS 28.
These disclosures relate to an entitys interests, where they are material, in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities.
The impact on the Group is on disclosure in the financial statements only where summarised information may need to be provided.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted.
The Group will need to disclose how the fair value has been reached in the financial statements.
