At 1 March 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Authorisation of financial statements The consolidated financial statements of Whitbread PLC for the year ended 1 March 2012 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 25 April 2012.
Whitbread PLC is a public limited company incorporated and fully domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The significant activities of the Group are described in note 4, Segment Information.
2 Accounting policies Basis of accounting and preparation The consolidated financial statements of Whitbread PLC and all its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union and as applied inaccordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand except when otherwise indicated.
The significant accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are consistent withthose followed in the preparation of the Group's annual financial statements for the year ended 3 March 2011, except for the definition of underlying profit which is noted in the policy on non GAAP performance measures, the presentation of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income noted below and the adoption of the following new Standards and Interpretations that are applicable for the year ended 1 March 2012.
In the current year, the directors have elected to voluntarily change the presentation of the Consolidated Statement ofComprehensive Income to present those items of other comprehensive income which could be reclassified to profit or loss at a future point separately from those items which will never be reclassified.
The directors consider that the change provides additional information and allows users to more easily identify the potential impact of items within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Comparatives have been restated accordingly.
This change ispresentational only and has no impact on the Groups reported income in the current or prior period.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amendment The amended standard clarifies the definition of a related party to simplify the identification of such relationships and to eliminate inconsistencies in its application.
There is no impact on the Group's financial position or performance.
IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Amendment The amendment provides guidance on assessing the recoverable amount of a net pension asset.
It permits an entity totreat the prepayment of a minimum funding requirement as an asset.
The adoption of this interpretation has had no effect on the financial statements of the Group.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the accounts of Whitbread PLC and all its subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the net assets and results of joint ventures and associates incorporated using the equity method of accounting.
These are adjusted, where appropriate, to conform to Group accounting policies.
The financial statements of material subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company.
Apart from the acquisition of Whitbread Group PLC by Whitbread PLC in 2000 1, which was accounted for using merger accounting, acquisitions by the Group are accounted for under the acquisition method and any goodwill arising is capitalised as an intangible asset.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from or up to the date that control passes respectively.
All intraGroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Significant accounting policies Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition is capitalised and represents the excess of the fair value of consideration over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently, if events or changes in circumstances indicate thatthe carrying value may be impaired.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included inthe determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
