Significant agreements The Audit Committee has considered what work should The Companys facility agreements and the private not be carried out by the external auditor and have placement loan notes agreement, details of which concluded that certain services will not be carried out can be found in note 22 to the accounts, contain by Ernst & Young LLP.
provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change Disclosure of information to auditor of control of the Company.
The directors have taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of relevant audit information and to Contractual arrangements establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
The Group has contractual arrangements with The directors are not aware of any relevant audit numerous third parties in support of its business information which has not been disclosed to the auditor.
activities, none of which are considered individually to be essential to its business and accordingly, it has not Going concern been considered necessary for an understanding of the The Groups business activities, together with the factors development, performance or position of the Groups likely to effect its future development, performance and business to disclose information about any of those position are set out in the business review on pages 2 third parties.
The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, net debt and borrowing facilities and the maturity Financial instruments of those facilities are set out in the Finance Directors Information on the Companys use of financial review on pages 18 and 19.
In addition there are further instruments, financial risk management objectives details in the financial statements on the Groups and policies and exposure is given in note 25 of the financial risk management, objectives and policies note consolidated financial statements.
25 and details of the financial instruments note 26.
Supplier payment policy A combination of the strong operating cash flows The Company has no trade creditors 3 March 2011: nil.
generated by the business and the significant The Group has a standard term of 60 days in respect headroom on its credit facilities support the directors of payments to suppliers.
Where this standard term view that the Group has sufficient funds available for does not apply, operating companies are responsible it to meet its forseeable working capital requirements.
for agreeing terms and conditions for their business The directors have concluded that the going concern transactions when orders for goods and services basis remains appropriate.
are placed, so that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and the relevant terms are included in Annual General Meeting contracts where appropriate.
The Group keeps to the The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on 19 June 2012 at payment terms which have been agreed with suppliers.
the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Where payment terms have not been specifically Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The agreed, it is the Groups policy to settle invoices Notice of Meeting is enclosed with this report for close to the end of the month following the month of shareholders receiving hard copy documents, and invoicing.
The Groups ability to keep to these terms available at www.
co. uk for those who is dependent upon suppliers sending accurate and elected to receive documents electronically.
At adequately detailed invoices to the correct address the 2012 AGM, all voting will be by poll.
The Group had 47 days purchases handsets will be utilised and results will be displayed outstanding at 1 March 2012 3 March 2011: 48 days on the screen at the meeting.
based on the trade creditors at that date and purchases made during the year.
Approved by the Board on 25 April 2012 and signed.
Charitable and political donations Simon Barratt No direct charitable donations have been made by the General Counsel and Company Secretary Company.
Costa Limited, a subsidiary of the Company, made a direct donation of 368,014 to the Costa Registered Office: Foundation.
Further details about the Costa Foundation Whitbread PLC can be found on pages 11 and 17.
In addition, the Whitbread Court Company organised and supported a number of Houghton Hall Business Park charitable events and a number of its employees Porz Avenue Dunstable carried out charitable activities during working hours.
Bedfordshire The value of these activities has not been quantified.
LU5 5XE More information on charitable activities can be found on page 17.
4120344 The Company has not made any political donations The directors report that has been drawn up and presented in during the year and intends to continue its policy of accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company not doing so for the foreseeable future.
law and any liability of the directors in connection with this report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such Auditor law.
The directors report includes the business review on pages 2 Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to 21 and this report on pages 24 to 27. to continue in office as auditor of the Company and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be put to The Annual Report and Accounts contain certain statements about the future outlook for the Group.
Although the Company believes shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
After proper consideration, that the expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any the Audit Committee is satisfied that the Companys statements about future outlook may be influenced by factors that auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, continues to be objective could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different.
and independent of the Company.
In coming to this conclusion, the Audit Committee gave full consideration to the non-audit work carried out by Ernst & Young LLP.
