co. uk At 1 March 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 15 Impairment During the year impairment losses of 13.5m 2010 11: 13.0m and impairment reversals of 3.3m 2010 11: 9.2m were recognised.
2011 12 2010 11 Property, Property, plant and plant and equipment equipment m m Impairment losses Hotels & Restaurants 12.8 12.1 Costa 0.7 0.9 Impairment reversals Hotels & Restaurants 2.8 7.9 Costa 0.5 1.3 Total 10.2 3.8 Property, plant and equipment The Group considers each trading outlet to be a CGU and each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
In assessing whether an asset has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU is compared to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In the absence of any information about the fair value of a CGU, the recoverable amount is deemed to be its value in use.
The Group estimates value in use using a discounted cash flow model, which applies a pre-tax discount rate of 9.3% in the UK with geographic specific percentages overseas 2010 11: 9.7%.
The future cash flows are based on assumptions from the business plans and cover a five year period.
These business plans and forecasts include managements most recent view of medium-term trading prospects.
Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using a growth rate based upon the relevant country's inflation target.
The events and circumstances that led to the impairment charge of 13.5m are set out below: Hotels & Restaurants The impairment of 12.8m at 16 sites in this strategic business unit was driven by a number of factors: Changes in the local competitive environment in which the hotels are situated Economic climate affecting some key regions H igh asset prices in the market at the point of acquisition for acquired sites which also anticipated higher growth rates at that time than are now expected.
Costa Six UK Costa sites, two sites in Shanghai and five in the Coffeeheaven business all with an established trend of poor performance against the required capital investment have been impaired by 0.7m where their expected future cash flows have fallen to such a level that their value in use is below carrying value.
Impairment reversals Following an improvement in trading performance and an increase in amounts of estimated future cash flows of previously impaired sites, reversals of 3.3m have been recognised, 2.8m in Hotels & Restaurants and 0.5m in Costa.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The level of impairment is predominantly dependent upon judgements used in arriving at future growth rates and the discount rate applied to cash flow projections.
The impact on the impairment charge of applying different assumptions to the growth rates used in the five year business plan and in the pre-tax discount rates would be as follows: Hotels & Restaurants Costa Total Incremental impairment charge m m m Impairment if business plan growth rates were reduced by 1ppt 5.0 5.0 Impairment if discount rate was increased by 1ppt 4.6 4.6 72
