Remuneration report Introduction from Ian Cheshire This was my first full year as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
In this report, you will see that we have taken the opportunity to re-define Whitbreads remuneration principles.
In doing so we aimed to ensure that remuneration arrangements are aligned with and support the delivery of the Groups business strategy and shareholder value creation.
The Whitbread strategy, which is to invest in growing its leading brands, Premier Inn and Costa, has stretching targets which if delivered successfully will create significant value for our shareholders.
The Committee believes that the executive team should be rewarded for the achievement of the strategy and therefore incentives should be clearly aligned to delivering earnings growth Contents and returns above our cost of capital.
To this end, amendments to the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP 35 Introduction from Ian Cheshire have been proposed and are outlined later in this report.
36 2011 12 highlights 37 Remuneration Committee governance The WINcard is a key element of our remuneration 38 Remuneration principles and structure.
It is designed to ensure that executives structure for 2012 13 are incentivised on both non-financial and financial 39 Annual Incentive Scheme measures.
The customer heartbeat schematic, which is 40 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP described on page 8 shows how we intend to deliver 41 Other information relating to our strategic aims by providing a great place to work executive directors for our people, so that they care for our customers and 41 The Chairman and the non-executive provide them with an experience that will make them directors come back time and time again.
The diagram below 42 Appendices shows how measures driving remuneration are linked to this model: Parts of this report have been audited and these are clearly marked as audited information.
Customer Team engagement Profitable growth heartbeat Strategic measures driving remuneration EPS growth Long Term Incentive Plan ROCE Annual Incentive Scheme Profit profit element Annual Incentive Scheme Your Say score Guest net promoter score Market performance WINcard element Health and safety hurdle Brand standards Like for like sales Carbon consumption 35
