co. uk At 1 March 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 28 Share capital continued Preference share capital Allotted, called up and fully paid shares of B Shares C Shares 1p each 2011: 1p each million m million m At 4 March 2010 2.0 1.9 Repurchased and cancelled At 3 March 2011 2.0 1.9 Repurchased and cancelled At 1 March 2012 2.0 1.9 B shareholders are entitled to an annual non-cumulative preference dividend paid in arrears on or around 2 July each year on a notional amount of 155 pence per share.
C shareholders are entitled to an annual non-cumulative preference dividend paid in arrears on or around 14 January each year on a value of 159 pence per share.
Other than shares issued in the normal course of business as part of the share-based payments schemes and those issued in respect of scrip dividends, there have been no transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares since the reporting date and before the completion of these financial statements.
29 Reserves Share premium The share premium reserve is the premium paid on the Companys 76.80p ordinary shares.
The issue of shares in lieu of cash dividends is treated as a bonus issue, with the nominal value of the shares being charged against the share premium account.
During the year, shares with a nominal value of 0.1m were issued in lieu of the 2010 11 final and 2011 12 interim cash dividends 2010 11: 0.4m.
Capital redemption reserve A capital redemption reserve was created on the cancellation of the Groups B and C preference shares note 28 and also includes the nominal value of cancelled ordinary shares.
Retained earnings In accordance with IFRS practice, retained earnings include revaluation reserves which are not distributable under UKlaw.
Currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries and other foreign currency investments.
Treasury reserve This reserve relates to shares held by an independently managed employee share ownership trust ESOT and treasury shares held by Whitbread PLC.
The shares held by the ESOT were purchased in order to satisfy outstanding employee share options and potential awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and other incentive schemes.
Merger reserve The merger reserve arose as a consequence of the merger in 2000 1 of Whitbread Group PLC and Whitbread PLC.
Hedging reserve This reserve records movements for effective cash flow hedges measured at fair value.
The total of the Treasury, Merger and Hedging reserve equals other reserves in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
