Suggestions for improvement included: Board and committees: the introduction of a formal annual update from There were three aspects to this years evaluation: the Company Secretary and auditors on legal or as in previous years, each director completed a regulatory issues directly affecting the Company: formal questionnaire on the performance of the holding meetings at Company sites when there are Board and each of the Board committees: new concepts developments: and the Chairman also met or spoke to all directors holding the planning and review meeting for the on a one-to-one basis: and Nomination Committee in March each year when an external evaluation of the Board was facilitated confirming the recommendation for re-election this year by Lorna Parker, an independent consultant of directors.
and former Managing Director and Partner of Spencer Stuart.
As part of this review, Lorna met Individual directors: each of the directors, the Company Secretary and The Chairman has one-to-one meetings with each the Group HR Director to discuss the effectiveness director to discuss their performance.
of the Board and its processes.
Chairman: The outcome of the review was discussed with the Every year the Senior Independent Director meets Chairman and Senior Independent Director and then with the non-executive directors without the Chairman as an agenda item at the Board meeting in March present to discuss the performance of the Chairman.
2012, which was attended by Lorna Parker.
The review The Senior Independent Director also speaks with the concluded that there is an open, supportive, cohesive executive directors to gain their views before discussing but challenging and disciplined culture within the board the results of the evaluation with the Chairman.
All the directors expressed a high degree of satisfaction with their experience on the Board.
Shareholder relations How does the Company interact with shareholders?
All shareholders The Company communicates with both institutional and private shareholders through the following means: the Companys website www.
co. uk, where information and news is regularly updated: the Annual Report, which sets out details of the Companys operations and performance over the past financial year and plans for future growth: the Annual General Meeting, where all shareholders have the opportunity to vote on the resolutions proposed and to put questions to the executive team: and presentations of full and half-year results to analysts and shareholders.
In addition, all shareholders are able to contact the Company by email, telephone or post to raise issues.
The Company also takes opportunities to interact more directly with institutional and private shareholders.
During 2011 12 this included the following: Institutional shareholders Private shareholders the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director live webcast presentations of the annual and held meetings with institutional investors interim results: following the full year and interim results: electronic communications with shareholders the Board received regular updates on the views including use of the online share portal: and of major shareholders from the Companys executives presented to members of the UK stockbrokers and independent researchers: Shareholders Association.
an Investor Day was organised by Costa: and a consultation was held with major shareholders on the proposed amendments to the LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan scheme.
How are shareholders able to participate in the AGM?
As in previous years, all voting by shareholders The Notice of AGM and related papers are sent to will be by poll using electronic handsets.
The voting all shareholders at least 20 working days before the results, including proxy votes received, will be displayed meeting.
The Company proposes a separate resolution on a screen at the meeting.
In addition, the audited on each substantially separate issue including a specific poll results will be disclosed on the Companys website resolution to approve the report and accounts.
For following the meeting, and announced through the each resolution, proxy appointment forms provide regulatory news service.
shareholders with the option to vote in advance of the AGM if they are unable to attend in person.
All The information that is required by DTR 7.2.
6, relating valid proxy votes received for the AGM are properly to the share capital of the Company can be found recorded and counted by Whitbreads registrars.
within the directors report on pages 25 and 26.
