co. uk Directors responsibility for the Company financial statements audit report Statement of directors' responsibilities This report is made solely to the stateof the Company's affairs as at 1 March 2012: The directors are responsible for companys members, as a body, in have been properly prepared in preparing the Annual Report and the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part accordance with United Kingdom financial statements in accordance 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our Generally Accepted Accounting with applicable law and regulations.
audit work has been undertaken Practice: and Company law requires the directors so that we might state to the have been prepared in accordance to prepare financial statements Companys members those matters with the requirements of the for each financial year.
Under that we are required to state to them Companies Act 2006. law the directors have elected to in an auditors report and for no prepare the financial statements in other purpose.
To the fullest extent Opinion on other matter prescribed accordance with United Kingdom permitted by law, we do not accept by the Companies Act 2006 Generally Accepted Accounting or assume responsibility to anyone In our opinion: Practice United Kingdom Accounting other than the Company and the the part of the Directors Remuneration Standards and applicable law.
companys members as a body, for Report to be auditedhas been our audit work, for this report, or for properly preparedin accordance Under company law the directors the opinions we have formed.
with the Companies Act 2006: and must not approve the financial the information given in the statements unless they are satisfied Respective responsibilities Directors report for the financial that they give a true and fair of directors and auditors year for which the financial view of the state of affairs of the As explained more fully in the statements are prepared is Company and of the profit or loss Directors Responsibilities Statement consistent with the parent of the Company for that period.
In set out above, the directors are Companyfinancial statements.
preparing those financial statements, responsible for the preparation of the the directors are required to: parent Company financial statements Matters on which we are required select suitable accounting policies and for being satisfied that they give to report by exception and then apply them consistently: a true and fair view.
Our responsibility We have nothing to report in respect make judgements and estimates is to audit the parent Company of the following matters where the that are reasonable and prudent: financial statements in accordance Companies Act 2006 requires us to state whether applicable UK with applicable law and International report to you if, in our opinion: accounting standards have been Standards on Auditing UK and adequate accounting records followed, subject to any material Ireland.
Those standards require us have not been kept by the parent departures disclosed and explained to comply with the Auditing Practices Company or returns adequate for in the financial statements: and Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
our audit have not been received prepare the financial statements on from branches not visited by us: or the going concern basis unless it is Scope of the audit of the the parent Company financial inappropriate to presume that the financial statements statements and the part of the Company will continue in business.
An audit involves obtaining evidence Directors Remuneration Report to be about the amounts and disclosures audited are not in agreement with the The directors are responsible for in the financial statements sufficient accounting records and returns: or keeping adequate accounting records to give reasonable assurance that certain disclosures of directors that are sufficient to show and explain the financial statements are free remuneration specified by law are the Company's transactions and from material misstatement, whether not made: or disclose with reasonable accuracy at caused by fraud or error.
This includes we have not received all the any time the financial position of the an assessment of: whether the information and explanations we Company and enable them to ensure accounting policies are appropriate require for our audit.
that the financial statements comply to the Company's circumstances with the Companies Act 2006.
They and have been consistently applied Other matter are also responsible for safeguarding and adequately disclosed: the We have reported separately on the assets of the Company and hence reasonableness of significant the Group financial statements of for taking reasonable steps for the accounting estimates made by the Whitbread PLC for the year ended prevention and detection of fraud and directors: and the overall presentation 1 March 2012. other irregularities.
In addition, we read all the financial Les Clifford Independent auditors report to and non-financial information in the Senior statutory auditor themembers of Whitbread PLC Annual Report to identify material for and on behalf of Ernst & Young We have audited the parent Company inconsistencies with the audited LLP, Statutory Auditor financial statements of Whitbread financial statements.
If we become PLC for the year ended 1 March 2012 aware of any apparent material London which comprise the Balance Sheet misstatements or inconsistencies and the related notes 1 to 11.
The we consider the implications for 25 April 2012 financial reporting framework that ourreport.
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Opinion on financial statements Accounting Standards United In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: Kingdom Generally Accepted give a true and fair view of the Accounting Practice.
