Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 79 17 Other financial liabilities continued 2012 2011 m m Non-current 150m Sterling bonds 6.50% August 2014 153 154 200m Sterling bonds 6.00% January 2017 202 201 200m Sterling bonds 6.12% December 2018 203 204 400m Sterling bonds 4.625% December 2023 397 $250m US private placement loan notes 4.4% November 2026 156 Total non-current bonds and loan notes 1,111 559 Floating credit facility 1.4% 2011: 1.13% 470 475 Other loans 9.38% 11 Cross-currency swaps 8 Energy price contracts 4 Finance lease obligations 7 7 1,600 1,052 Borrowing facilities Borrowings are denominated in Sterling and US Dollars and bear fixed interest rates, with the exception of the floating credit facility which bears floating interest rates.
On 8 December 2011, the Group issued 400m of Sterling bonds at a fixed rate of 4.625%, expiring in December 2023.
The issue is part of a 3,000m Euro Medium Term Note Programme where the Group can from time-to-time issue notes denominated in any agreed currency.
On 2 November 2011, the Group issued $250m US private placement loan notes at a fixed rate of 4.4%, expiring in November 2026.
The Group has put in place cross-currency swaps to swap the principal and fixed rate interest of the US Dollar private placement loan notes into fixed rate sterling interest liabilities.
The maturity dates of the cross-currency swaps match the underlying loan notes.
On 4 March 2011, the Group agreed terms on its new floating credit finance.
During the period the Group repaid the previous facility of 476m and drew down 475m of the new facility.
The expiry date for the floating credit facility, March 2016, is consistent with the undrawn element of the facility disclosed below.
In the event of default of covenants on the bank facility, the principal amounts and any interest accrued are repayable on demand.
The Group has the following undrawn floating committed borrowing facilities available in respect of which all conditions present had been met at that date: 2012 2011 m m Undrawn facilities expiring: Between 1 and 2 years 625 Between 4 and 5 years 725 18 Financial instruments a Financial risk management The Groups treasury operations are controlled centrally by the Treasury Committee in accordance with clearly defined policies and procedures that have been authorised by the Board.
There is an amount of delegated authority to the Treasury Committee, but all activities are summarised in half yearly treasury reports which are presented to the Audit Committee.
The Groups principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise bank loans and overdrafts, bonds, other borrowings, finance leases and trade and other creditors.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
The Group has various financial assets such as trade debtors and cash and short term deposits which arise directly from its operations.
The Group enters into derivative transactions, in the form of forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and energy price contracts.
The purpose of these derivative instruments is to manage risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
As part of normal banking arrangements, the Group utilises letters of credit in order to facilitate contracts with third parties.
The financial derivatives relating to commitments entered into during the year are to manage the risks arising from its usage of energy and foreign currency.
It remains the Groups policy not to engage in speculative trading of financial instruments.
80 Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 29 January 2012 18 Financial instruments continued The objectives, policies and processes for managing these risks are stated below: i Foreign currency risk The Group makes the majority of its purchases in Sterling however it incurs currency exposure in respect of overseas trade purchases made in currencies other than Sterling, primarily being Euro and US Dollar.
The Groups objective is to reduce risk to short term profits and losses from exchange rate fluctuations.
It is Group policy that any transactional currency exposures recognised to have a material impact on short term profits and losses will be hedged through the use of derivative financial instruments.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had entered into forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate foreign currency exposure on up to 50% 2011: 50% of its forecasted purchases within the next six months.
Cross-currency swaps are used to mitigate the Groups currency exposure arising from payments of interest and repayment of the principal in relation to US Dollar private placement loan notes.
The sensitivity to a reasonably possible change - 10% in the US Dollar Euro exchange rate has been determined as being immaterial.
ii Liquidity risk The Group policy is to maintain a balance of funding with a range of maturities and a sufficient level of undrawn committed borrowing facilities to meet any unforeseen obligations and opportunities.
Short term cash balances, together with undrawn committed facilities, enable the Group to manage its liquidity risk.
The Group finances its operations with a combination of bank credit facilities, bonds and US private placement loan notes.
The Treasury Committee monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserve on a quarterly basis, which comprises committed and uncommitted borrowing facilities on the basis of expected cash flow.
At 29 January 2012, the Group had undrawn committed facilities of 725m note 17.
These facilities remain available to the Group.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups other financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments, which includes interest payments.
Creditors and current tax liabilities have been excluded from this analysis.
These balances are due within 12 months and their contractual undiscounted payments equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Where borrowings are subject to a floating rate, an estimate for interest has been made.
The amounts included in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, and therefore do not agree to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings.
2012 2011 m m Less than one year 149 41 One to two years 68 516 Two to three years 224 42 Three to four years 57 185 Four to five years 732 25 More than five years 988 468 The table below analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
1 year 1 5 years 5 years At 29 January 2012 m m m Derivatives settled on a gross basis Cross-currency swaps cash flow hedges Outflow 8 31 234 Inflow 7 28 230 Forward contracts cash flow hedges Outflow 67 Inflow 66 Derivatives settled on a net basis Energy price contracts cash flow hedges Outflow 4 3 Inflow 2 Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 81 18 Financial instruments continued 1 year 1 5 years 5 years At 30 January 2011 m m m Derivatives settled on a gross basis Forward contracts cash flow hedges Outflow 54 Inflow 54 Derivatives settled on a net basis Energy price contracts cash flow hedges Outflow 4 3 iii Credit risk Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, deposits with banking groups as well as credit exposures from other sources of income such as supplier income and tenants of investment properties.
The Group maintains deposits with banks and financial institutions who must possess a long term credit rating of A1 or higher with Moodys for a period not exceeding six months.
Further, the Group has specified limits that can be deposited with any banking group or financial institution at any point.
The maximum exposure on cash and cash equivalents and deposits is equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
The Group does not expect any significant performance losses from counterparties.
The Group trades only with recognised third parties.
It is the Groups policy that tenants of investment properties who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The maximum exposure is the carrying amount as disclosed in note 15.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
iv Other risk Pricing risk: The Group manages the risks associated with the purchase of electricity, gas and diesel consumed by its activities excluding fuel purchased for resale to customers by entering into bank swap contracts to fix prices for expected consumption.
The Treasury Committee reviews the Groups market price exposure to these commodities on a quarterly basis and determines a strategy for utilising derivative financial products in order to mitigate the volatility of energy prices.
A - 10 % change in the fair value of the commodity price at the balance sheet date impacts the cash flow reserve by 16m.
The Group intends to hold derivatives to maintain cover of its energy purchases of up to 75% over an appropriate timescale.
Cash flow interest rate risk: The Groups long term policy is to protect itself against adverse movements in interest rates by maintaining approximately 60% of its consolidated total net debt in fixed rate borrowings.
As at the balance sheet date 70% 2011: 55% of the Groups borrowings are at fixed rate, thereby substantially reducing the Groups exposure to adverse movements in interest rates.
b Capital management The Group defines the capital that it manages as the Groups total equity and net debt balances, with an adjustment to reflect rental commitments.
The Groups objectives are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern providing returns to shareholders, through the optimisation of the debt and equity balances, maintaining a strong investment grade credit rating and having adequate liquidity headroom.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes appropriate decisions in light of the current economic conditions and strategic objectives of the Group.
Initiatives available to achieve the Groups desired capital structure include adjusting the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, issuing new shares and buying back share capital.
During the current financial year, the proportion of debt relative to equity has increased, resulting from both 368m incurred on the equity retirement programme, and a strategy of pursuing a more diversified funding portfolio.
In recent months, 400m additional funding has been obtained following the Groups successful inaugural Bond issuance, and a further 156m from a US Private Placement with Metlife Insurance.
As these were issued for 12 and 15 years, respectively, this has contributed to a significant increase in average maturity period of the Groups debt.
A key objective of the Groups capital management is to maintain compliance with the covenants set out in the revolving credit facility.
The Groups covenants require maintenance of a gearing ratio of less than 3.5 and interest cover of at least 3.0 times.
Throughout the year, the Group has comfortably complied with these covenants.
