Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 65 Group accounting policies General information New IFRS and amendments to IAS and interpretations Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC is a public limited company There are a number of standards and interpretations issued by incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act the IASB that are effective for financial statements after this 2006 Registration number 358949.
The Company is domiciled reporting period.
The following have not been early adopted in the United Kingdom and its registered address is Hilmore by the Group: House, Gain Lane, Bradford, BD3 7DL, United Kingdom.
International Financial Effective for accounting Reporting Standards periods starting on or after Basis of preparation IFRS 7 Amendment to Financial 1 July 2011 The financial statements have been prepared for the 52 weeks instruments: Disclosures on ended 29 January 2012 2011: 30 January 2011 in accordance derecognition with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IAS 12 Amendment to Income taxes on 1 January 2012 International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee deferred tax interpretations IFRIC as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to IAS 1 Amendment to Financial 1 July 2012 companies reporting under IFRS.
IFRS and IFRIC are issued statement presentation by the International Accounting Standards Board the IASB IAS 19 Amendment to Employee 1 January 2013 and must be adopted into European Union law, referred to benefits as endorsement, before they become mandatory under IFRS 9 Financial instruments 1 January 2015 the IAS Regulation.
Shown below are recent standards and IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements 1 January 2013 interpretations that have been issued by the IASB, indicating their status of endorsement.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements 1 January 2013 IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other 1 January 2013 The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern entities basis.
The Directors assessment of going concern has been IFRS 13 Fair value measurement 1 January 2013 considered within the general information section of the IAS 27 Separate financial statements 1 January 2013 Directors report.
revised The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, IAS 28 Associates and joint ventures 1 January 2013 rounded to the nearest million, except in some instances, revised where it is deemed relevant to disclose the amounts up to Endorsed by the European Union.
They are drawn up on the historical cost basis of accounting, except as disclosed in the accounting IAS 19 Employee benefits was amended in June 2011. policies set out below.
The impact on the Group will be immediately to recognise all past service costs, and to replace interest cost and The Groups accounting policies are set out below and have, expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
There are no IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that are effective The application of these standards and interpretations is for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after not anticipated to have a material effect on the Groups 31 January 2011 that would have a material impact on the financial statements.
The Group has adopted all amendments published in Improvements to IFRSs 2010.
The adoption of these Basis of consolidation amendments has not had any significant impact on the The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial amounts reported in these financial statements.
statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group, being those undertakings that it controls.
Control is Accounting reference date achieved where the Company has the power to govern the The accounting period of the Group ends on the Sunday financial and operating policy of an investee entity so as to falling between 29 January and 4 February each year.
obtain benefits from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting period as the Parent Company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated financial statements from the effective date of acquisition up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
