14 Business and strategy review Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC 1 Driving the topline Traditional beef Strengthening our brand We also launched our traditional beef breeds programme.
This is a longer term programme, working in partnership with over 100 farmers to bring an exclusive range to our customers.
We believe that having great own The range will be available all year round at guaranteed quality and at an affordable price.
brand products can give consumers M savers a reason to switch supermarkets, In January 2012, we launched M savers, our new entry priceand we are ambitious to create an point range, which is designed to be a clear proposition of good quality at the best price, in strong support of our conviction that industry leading range.
We have increased our range to over 500 lines, competing Much work was done during the year, starting with a detailed with the broadest offer in the market and enabling customers benchmarking of existing Morrisons products against to do a full value-led shop, should they choose to do so.
In blind taste testing, we found that our quality was already high, and overall was better than the average Coming up of our direct competitors.
As always, there was room for In 2012 13, we will begin to deliver solutions across home improvement, particularly in going beyond just having a set and leisure, and other general merchandise categories.
We will of good own label products, to having a family of great relevant continue to leverage the expertise of our team of chefs to ensure brands that influence consumer behaviour.
our products and brands are consistently delivering quality, value and relevant innovation.
In 2012 13, we aim to further 2011 12 saw the start of a three year programme of new increase own brand participation.
product development, and we made good progress.
Informed by research and customer insight, we built a plan, created a talented By the end of the journey, we will have a market-leading own team and began the execution that will see 5,000 new products brand, which customers trust to bring them everything from the introduced this year and more than 10,000 products relaunched best value, to unrivalled produce, to fabulous restaurant-quality by Christmas 2013. meals at Morrisons prices.
Customers will also be much more aware of the products we make and prepare in-store as well Our own brand is a major pillar in delivering our brand promise as those we manufacture ourselves in our own factories.
of Friendly People Making Great Food Affordable for Everyone.
Our new proposition will give us the relevant points of difference in every part of our store to support our positioning M Kitchen launch as a great food retailer, reaffirm our fresh credentials and offer We commenced the rollout with our M Kitchen range in October unbeatable value to our customers.
2011, launching over 600 products in a category where we knew that we were performing below the market.
Through close co-operation with suppliers and inspiration from great chefs including Pierre Koffman and Aldo Zilli, we have developed an innovative and exciting range with exceptional product quality.
The response from customers has been extremely positive and M Kitchen sales have increased 40% over the same categories last year.
In addition to the M Kitchen launch, we also relaunched our bread range, introducing new products, improving quality and finding ways to show our customers that we make our own bread.
This has been really successful and we have seen own brand participation increase by 10%.
Evolving the Morrisons experience We are building on what we do best to be the number one destination for fresh food.
