56 Governance Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC General information The Directors report and business review ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued Pages 2 to 59, inclusive, of this Annual report and financial ordinary share capital at that time.
This authority remained valid statements consist of a Directors report and business review on 29 January 2012.
During the period, the Company purchased that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in 125,699,939 of its own shares pursuant to that authority, which reliance on, English company law.
The liabilities of the Directors will expire at the close of the 2012 AGM.
in connection with that Directors report and business review shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by In addition, 245,378 ordinary shares were issued during the Companies Act 2006. the period to employees exercising share options.
Forward-looking statements Borrowing powers The Directors report and business review is prepared for the The Articles of Association of the Company restrict the members of the Company and should not be relied upon by any borrowings of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings other party or for any other purpose.
Where the Directors to a maximum amount equal to twice the share capital and report and business review includes forward-looking statements, consolidated reserves.
these are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their approval of Substantial shareholdings this report.
Consequently, such statements should be treated As at 7 March 2012, the Company has been notified by with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including both the following shareholders excluding Directors that they economic and business risk factors, underlying such forwardhave interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital of looking statements and information.
the Company: Number of shares % of holding Result and dividend Black Rock Inc 265,248,903 10.60 The profit for the period after taxation attributable to the owners of the Company amounted to 690m 2010 11: 632m.
Investco 133,357,656 5.33 The Directors have declared and recommend the following Brandes Investment Partners LP 132,155,077 5.28 dividends: Ameriprise Financial Inc 131,284,252 5.25 m Walter Scott & Partners Ltd 107,775,155 4.31 Paid interim dividend of 3.17p per share 81 Legal & General Group Plc 104,976,462 4.19 2010 11: 1.23p Zurich Financial Services 81,286,130 3.25 Recommended final dividend of 7.53p per share 191 2010 11: 8.37p The number of shares appearing above is that appearing in the relevant notification to the Company.
The percentage appearing The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the Annual above is the percentage that number represents of the issued General Meeting AGM, is to be paid on 20 June 2012 to share capital of the Company as at 7 March 2012. ordinary shareholders on the register of members at close of business on 18 May 2012.
If the final dividend is approved Relating to beneficial owners of shares with by shareholders, the total ordinary dividend for the year will information rights be 10.7p per share.
Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information rights Auditor under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to direct all communications to the registered holder of their a separate resolution to authorise the Directors to set their shares rather than to the Companys registrar, Capita Registrars, remuneration is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Annual General Meeting Directors The notice of the 2012 AGM of the Company to be held The current Directors of the Group and their biographies are at the Companys headquarters at Gain Lane in Bradford shown on pages 38 and 39.
Paul Manduca retired from the on 14 June 2012 is to be sent to shareholders with an Board on 9 March 2011.
Brian Flanagan and Mark Gunter accompanying explanatory letter from the Chairman.
The retired from the Board at the AGM on 9 June 2011.
Directors believe each of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are in the best interests of the Group and recommend In line with the best practice guidance of Provision B.
7.1 of the shareholders to vote in favour of each of them.
Shareholders UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has resolved that will also receive notification of the availability of the results all Directors will submit themselves for re-election annually.
on the Groups website, unless they have positively elected Accordingly, all of the current Directors, being eligible, will offer to receive a printed version of the results.
themselves for re-election at the 2012 AGM.
Share capital The interests of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors The authorised and called-up share capital of the Company, of the Company and their immediate families in the shares together with details of shares allotted during the year, of the Company, along with share options, are contained in are shown in note 22 of the Group financial statements.
the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 46 to 55.
At the AGM of the Company held in 2011, a special resolution At no time during the year did any of the Directors have was passed to renew the authority given at the AGM held in June a material interest in any significant contract with the 2010 for the purchase by the Company of up to 263,378,576 Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 57 Employee relations Payment to creditors Morrisons is an equal opportunities employer.
Equal Supplier credit is an important factor in the success of the opportunities are offered to all regardless of race, colour, business.
It is Group policy to ensure all payments are made nationality, ethnic origin, sex including gender reassignment, within mutually agreed credit terms.
Where disputes arise, marital or civil partnership status, disability, religion or belief, the Group attempts to sort these out promptly and amicably to sexual orientation, age or trade union membership.
ensure delays in payment are kept to a minimum.
Trade creditors for the Group at the financial year end represented 30 days of The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for purchases 2010 11: 32 days.
employment made by people with disabilities.
The policy is to offer equal opportunity to all disabled candidates and employees Groceries Supply Code of Practice who have a disability or become disabled in any way during the The Groceries Supply Code of Practice GSCOP came into course of their employment.
A full assessment of the individuals effect on 4 February 2010 and applies to all grocery retailers needs is undertaken and reasonable adjustments are made with an annual turnover in excess of 1bn.
to the work environment or practices in order to assist those with disabilities.
The Group undertook a number of measures to ensure compliance before commencement, including a Code All candidates and employees are treated equally in respect of Compliance Officer CCO, amending our standard terms and recruitment, promotion, training, pay and other employment conditions of purchase to incorporate the Code, and undertaking policies and conditions.
All decisions are based on relevant a full training regime for our buyers and associated supporting merits and abilities.
Over the last year, we built on our initial work by undertaking a full retraining programme for all relevant Political and charitable donations colleagues and have had all of our supporting processes During the period, the Group made charitable donations reviewed by our internal audit team.
The donations were mainly small donations to support local communities.
In Alleged breaches are dealt with in accordance with GSCOP addition, the Group supported various charities and, in the year, and escalated internally up to, and including, the CCO, where over 2.3m 2010 11: 1.3m was raised by customers and required.
These matters are reported to both our Management colleagues for the Charity of the Year.
No political donations Board and CCR Committee.
were made, which is Group policy.
Since the GSCOP came into effect, we have successfully worked Disclosure of information to the auditor with suppliers to resolve disputes that have arisen with reference The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this to its provisions.
Details of such disputes have been reported to Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, the Office of Fair Trading OFT periodically on request as part there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups of the OFTs monitoring.
No matters that have arisen during our auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that reporting period have progressed to arbitration.
he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Health and safety policy that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
It is the Groups intention, so far as is reasonably practicable, to ensure the health, safety and welfare of all its employees, Going concern customers and visitors to its premises.
In order to achieve this, The Directors assessment of the Group and the Companys a comprehensive health and safety manual is in place for each ability to continue as a going concern has taken into division of the Company and subsidiary companies within the consideration the effect that the current economic climate Group.
Each health and safety manual contains the policy and has on the Group.
procedures for complying with the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, including the provision, based on risk assessment, of The Groups ability to borrow cash has not been adversely safe working practices for all work activities across the Group.
affected by the continuing lack of liquidity in the financial The Groups health and safety policy is approved by the markets and the Group has negotiated, and has available to it, Management Board.
The Group has adopted the national targets committed, competitive facilities that will meet the Groups set by the Health and Safety Commission for the reduction of needs in the short and medium term.
workplace accidents and work-related ill health, and is on course to meet or exceed these targets.
Health and safety performance The principal risks that the Group is challenged with have been is monitored to ensure continuous improvement in all areas.
set out on page 28, along with how the Directors mitigate these risks in the current economic climate.
Additional shareholder information Additional information for shareholders is required by the After reviewing the Groups financial forecasts, including an implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into UK law.
assessment of working capital and other medium term plans, the Directors are confident that the Company and the Group Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the have adequate financial resources available to continue in Company is required to disclose certain additional information.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The going Such disclosures, which are not covered elsewhere in this report, concern basis has continued to be adopted in the preparation include the following paragraphs.
The disclosures set out below of the financial statements.
are in some cases a summary of the relevant provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and the relevant full provisions can be found in the Articles which are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
58 Governance Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC General information continued Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares Appointment and powers of Directors Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether meeting of ordinary shareholders.
The Directors have the power in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as to appoint a Director during the year, but any person so the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution appointed must be put up for appointment at the next AGM.
determine or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Directors may determine.
Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law, and to such direction as may be given by the Company in general At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company shall vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, one vote for each share be managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for the Company which are not required to be exercised by the exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in Company in general meeting.
relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
Articles of Association No member is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
meeting, or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if they or any person with an interest in shares has Other disclosures been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act There are no persons with whom the Group has contractual 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to or other arrangements which are essential to the business of require information with respect to interests in their voting the Group.
shares and they or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after The Company is not party to any significant arrangements which delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide that no take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that Company following a takeover bid.
no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company The Company does not have any employee share schemes of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the where the shares to which the scheme relates have rights with information required by the relevant section 793 notice, regard to the control of the Company which are not exercisable whichever is the earlier.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share By the order of the Board which is not a fully-paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which the Financial Services Authority Greg McMahon regards as preventing dealings in the shares of the relevant class Company Secretary or classes from taking place on an open or proper basis.
The 7 March 2012 Directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer of a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
