18 Business and strategy review Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC 2 Increasing our efficiency With two years in planning and 16 months in rollout, all the Revamping our systems produce sites have invested in a huge collaborative process.
The three month readiness programme before each go-live covered everything from leadership through to infrastructure.
Our Evolve programme started in 2008 This, along with the commitment shown by colleagues, was the key success factor.
and is now approximately halfway to The new produce solution: provides advanced, centralised completion.
Evolve is all about making planning and scheduling: orders from the sales management sure we have the right systems in place system: checks raw material inventory and creates a demand for manufacturing and replenishment stocks from suppliers: to support our business processes, and sets hourly schedules for production lines.
We have automated the processes for bringing raw materials to site, increase sales and efficiency, and receipt of orders and marrying up our resources.
We now compete strongly in todays retail have consistent methods for planning and scheduling, and standard reporting.
market as well as creating flexibility The dispatch process is also more efficient, with produce for the future.
In short, making a allocation and picking lists generated automatically, meaning stock visibility has improved across the business.
We can well run business run better.
produce a report at any time to show exactly what is in every area of the business, and in what state, replacing the need for continual counts.
With a team of over 700 people, the programme has already delivered: The new solution supports our drive for quality in fresh produce.
a new central accounting system and a single payroll It allows us to monitor the ongoing quality of all products, system for colleagues: enabling better supplier management.
Better visibility of stock 12,500 new touchscreens on tills: also increases the focus on reducing inventory in the supply chain, which helps to ensure freshness.
a solution for simplifying cash reconciliations in-store: and voice picking in our distribution centres to increase the In 2012 13, we aim to deliver benefits of 1.3m through accuracy of deliveries.
improved labour efficiency and yield.
The major benefit, however, is derived from improving sales order fulfilment against quantity and time.
This will lead to improved availability A key focus in 2011 12 has been the introduction of a new in our stores for customers.
The overall benefit is estimated produce manufacturing solution to our five manufacturing at 2.7m a year.
produce sites to improve efficiency.
Next up meat Produce manufacturing solution Our meat manufacturing solution is going live to our first Produce manufacturing is central to the Morrisons commitment abattoir in the second half of 2012 13, with rollout to the other to quality from field to fork.
Employing 2,700 people, our two sites by early 2013 14.
The meat solution is necessarily produce sites produce 29m packs of fresh fruit and vegetables more complex than produce, yet builds on the same model.
every week for sale in our stores.
Until 2010 11, each site was Productivity and efficiency savings are expected, with an overall planning independently against daily orders and managing stock benefit of 2.2m year-on-year once the system is complete.
levels accordingly using manual systems.
Visibility of inventory levels and yields was limited.
The Evolve programme means more than just new systems.
With over 75% of the workforce set to use the new solution, skill levels across the entire division were raised.
We had to change the way people operate and their mindset, says Andy Joynson, Manufacturing Director for Produce, we introduced more robust processes, structure and organisation driven by better solutions.
Innovative systems to realise efficiencies We have been looking at every aspect of our business, from field to fork, to see where we can increase efficiency.
