68 Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Group accounting policies continued Lessee accounting operating leases Payments by the Group to the defined contribution scheme Rental payments are taken to profit for the period on a straight are charged to profit for the period as they arise.
line basis over the life of the lease.
Property leases are analysed into separate components for land and buildings and tested to Share-based payments establish whether the components are operating leases or The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain finance leases.
employees in exchange for services rendered by them.
The fair value of the share-based award is calculated at the date of grant Lessee accounting finance leases and is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period The present value, calculated using the interest rate implicit with a corresponding increase in equity.
This is based on the in the lease, of the future minimum lease payments is included Groups estimate of share options that will eventually vest.
within Property, plant and equipment and financial liabilities as This takes into account movement of non-market conditions, an obligation to pay future rentals.
Depreciation is provided at being service conditions and financial performance, if relevant.
the same rates as for owned assets, or over the lease period, if shorter.
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial stochastic model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on Rental payments are apportioned between the finance charge managements best estimate, for effects of non-transferability, and the outstanding obligation so as to produce a constant rate exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
of finance charge on the remaining balance.
Financial instruments Provisions Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups Provisions are created where the Group has a present obligation balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the as a result of a past event, where it is probable that it will result contractual provisions of the instrument.
in an outflow of economic benefits to settle the obligation, and where it can be reliably measured.
a Financial assets i Trade and other debtors Provisions are made in respect of individual properties where Trade and other debtors are initially recognised at fair value.
there are obligations for onerous contracts, dilapidations and Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the certain decommissioning obligations for petrol filling stations.
Group will not be able to recover balances in full, with the charge The amounts provided are based on the Groups best estimate being recognised in Administrative expenses in profit for the of the likely committed outflow to the Group.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery these estimated outflows are discounted to net present value.
is assessed as being remote.
Foreign currencies ii Cash and cash equivalents Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow purposes includes exchange at the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet cash-in-hand, cash-at-bank and bank overdrafts together with date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in short term, highly-liquid investments that are readily convertible foreign currency are retranslated at the rates of exchange at the into known amounts of cash, with an insignificant risk of balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are a change in value, within three months from the date of included in the income statement for the period except when acquisition.
In the balance sheet bank overdrafts that do not they are deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying have right of offset are presented within current liabilities.
Cash held by the Groups captive insurer is not available for Retirement benefits use by the rest of the Group as it is restricted for use against The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution the specific liability of the captive.
As the funds are available schemes.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme on demand, they meet the definition of cash in IAS 7 under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate Cashflow statements.
A defined benefit scheme is one that is not a defined contribution scheme.
Pension benefits under defined benefit b Financial liabilities schemes are defined on retirement based on age at date i Trade and other creditors of retirement, years of service and a formula using either Trade and other creditors are stated at fair value.
the employees compensation package or career average revalued earnings.
ii Borrowings Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair The Group operates two defined benefit retirement schemes value, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial which are funded by contributions from the Group and recognition, any difference between the redemption value members.
The defined benefit schemes are not open to new and the initial carrying amount is recognised in profit for the members.
Pension scheme assets, which are held in separate period over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest trustee administered funds, are valued at market rates.
scheme obligations are measured on a discounted present value basis using assumptions as shown in note 20.
The operating and c Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting financing costs of the scheme are recognised separately in profit Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair for the period when they arise.
Death-in-service costs are value and are remeasured at fair value through profit or loss, recognised on a straight line basis over their vesting period.
except where the derivative qualifies for hedge accounting.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
i Cash flow hedges Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow The Group has a right to recognise an asset, should one arise, hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to variability in respect of the Groups net obligations to the pension in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk schemes.
Therefore either an asset or a liability is recognised in associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly the balance sheet, calculated separately for each scheme.
