66 Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Group accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies Property transactions The Directors consider the following to be significant accounting Property includes the balance sheet headings of Property, policies in the context of the Groups operations: plant and equipment and Investment property.
The results of transactions relating to disposal of property are reported Segmental reporting in profit for the period under Profit loss arising on property The Group is required to determine and present its operating transactions.
Depreciation and any impairment charges or segments based on the way in which financial information is reversals are recognised in cost of sales or administrative organised and reported to the chief operating decision-maker expenses, as appropriate.
The CODM has been identified as the Management Board as it is this Board who make the key operating decisions Borrowing costs of the Group, are responsible for allocating resources and assess All borrowing costs are recognised in the Groups profit for performance of the operating segments.
the period on an effective interest rate basis except for interest costs that are directly attributable to the construction of The Directors consider, based on its internal reporting buildings and other qualifying assets which are capitalised framework, management and operating structure, that it has and included within the initial cost of the asset.
Capitalisation one operating segment, that of retailing.
The level of disclosure of interest ceases when the asset is ready for use.
of segmental and other information is driven by such assessment.
Further details of the considerations made and the resulting Deferred and current tax disclosures are provided in note 3 to these financial statements.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws in effect during the period and any adjustments to tax Revenue recognition payable in respect of previous periods.
Taxable profit differs Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or from the reported profit for the period as it is adjusted both receivable for the sale of goods in the ordinary course of the for items that will never be taxable or deductible, and temporary Groups activities.
It is recognised when significant risks and differences.
Current tax is charged to profit for the period, rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, there except when it relates to items charged or credited directly is reasonable certainty of recovery of the consideration and in equity in which case the current tax is reflected in equity.
the amount of revenue, associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method.
Provision is made for temporary differences between the a Sale of goods in-store and fuel carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting Sale of goods in-store is recorded net of value added tax, purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
returns, staff discounts, coupons, vouchers and the free element No deferred tax is recognised for temporary differences that of multi-save transactions.
Sale of fuel is recognised net of value arise on the initial recognition of goodwill or the initial added tax and Morrisons Miles award points.
Revenue is recognition of assets and liabilities that is not a business recognised when transactions are completed in-store.
combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profits.
Deferred tax is calculated based on tax law that is b Other sales enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date and Other revenue primarily comprises income from concessions provided at rates expected to apply when the temporary and commissions based on the terms of the contract and differences reverse.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to manufacturing sales made direct to third party customers profit for the period except when it relates to items charged or recognised on despatch of goods.
Revenue collected on behalf credited directly to other comprehensive income, in which case of others is not recognised as turnover, other than the related the deferred tax is reflected in other comprehensive income.
Sales are recorded net of value added tax and intra-group transactions.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which Cost of sales the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets recognised are Cost of sales consists of all costs to the point of sale including reviewed at each reporting date as judgement is required manufacturing, warehouse and transportation costs.
Store to estimate the availability of future taxable income.
depreciation, store overheads and store based employee costs Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where amounts are also allocated to cost of sales.
will be settled on a net basis as there is a legally enforceable right to offset.
Supplier income Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts are collectively Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make referred to as supplier income in the retail industry.
Supplier judgements and estimates of ultimate exposures in relation income is recognised as a deduction from cost of sales on an to tax compliance issues.
All accruals are included in accruals basis based on the expected entitlement which has current liabilities.
been earned up to the balance sheet date for each relevant supplier contract.
The accrued incentives, rebates and discounts Intangible assets receivable at year end are included within prepayments and a Business combinations and goodwill accrued income.
Where amounts received are in the expectation The acquisition method of accounting is used to account of future business, these are recognised in the income statement for business combinations by the Group.
The consideration in line with that future business.
transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity Other operating income interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred Other operating income primarily consists of income not directly includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from related to the operating of supermarkets and mainly comprises a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related rental income from investment properties and income generated costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired from recycling of packaging.
Rental income arising from operating and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business leases on investment properties is accounted for on a straightcombination are measured initially at their fair values at the line basis to the date of the next rent review.
Details of rental acquisition date.
On an  basis, the income from investment property are provided in note 12.
Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree
