Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 69 The Group has cross-currency swaps designated as cash flow Own shares held hedges.
These derivative financial instruments are used to The Group has an employee trust for the granting of Group match or minimise risk from potential movements in foreign shares to executives and members of the employee share exchange rates inherent in the cash flows of the US Dollar plans.
Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust private placement loan notes.
are presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from retained earnings.
To minimise the risk from potential movements in energy prices, the Group has energy price contracts which are designated as The shares are deducted for the purpose of calculating the cash flow hedges.
To minimise the risk from potential movements in foreign Use of critical accounting assumptions and estimates exchange rates, the Group uses forward exchange contracts with Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are financial institutions which are designated as cash flow hedges.
based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable Derivatives are reviewed annually for effectiveness.
derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, gain or loss on the movement in fair value of the derivative seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and financial instrument is recognised in other comprehensive assumptions that have significant risk of causing a material income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity.
adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge is immediately recognised in profit for the period within Cost a Property provisions of sales in relation to the energy price contracts and within Provisions have been made for onerous leases, dilapidations and Finance income costs in relation to the cross-currency swaps.
These provisions are estimates based If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in on the condition of each property and market conditions for the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated the relevant location.
The actual costs and timing of future cash cumulative gains or losses that were recognised directly flows are dependent on future events.
Any difference between in equity are reclassified into profit for the period when expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for the transaction occurs.
in the period when such determination is made.
ii Fair value hedges b Pension scheme assumptions and mortality table Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value The carrying value of defined benefit pension schemes is valued hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in using actuarial valuations.
These valuations are based on fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised assumptions including the selection of mortality tables for the firm commitment.
The hedging instrument is stated at fair profile of members in each scheme.
All these are estimates of value and any changes in fair value are immediately recognised future events.
The mortality experience study conducted as part in other comprehensive income.
of the Safeway scheme triennial valuation is statistically significant and the longevity assumption is adjusted to reflect its Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument results.
As both of the Groups schemes have a similar expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies composition and type of members, this adjustment is also made for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or to the Morrisons scheme.
The mortality assumptions, financial loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and assumptions and mortality experience study are based on advice is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately received from the schemes actuaries.
Where appropriate these recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast are corroborated from time-to-time with benchmark surveys and transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative ad-hoc analysis.
gain or loss reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
c Determination of useful lives, residual values and carrying values of Intangible assets, Property, plant and equipment and Net debt Investment property Net debt is cash and cash equivalents, long term cash on Depreciation and amortisation are provided so as to write down deposit, bank and other current loans, finance lease debt, the assets to their residual values over their estimated useful bonds, private placement loan notes and derivative financial lives as set out in the accounting policies for Intangible assets, instruments stated at current fair value.
Property, plant and equipment and Investment property.
The selection of these residual values and estimated lives requires Share capital the exercise of judgement.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are The Group is required to assess whether there is indication of shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
impairment to the carrying values of assets.
In making that assessment, judgements are made in estimating value in use in Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity relation to future cash flows and discount rates.
The Directors share capital, the consideration paid, including directly consider that the individual carrying values of stores and other attributable incremental costs, is deducted from retained operating assets are supportable either by value in use or earnings until the shares are cancelled.
On cancellation, the market values.
nominal value of the shares is deducted from share capital and the amount is transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
