Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 67 either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests Investment property proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Property held to earn rental income is classified as Investment property.
Investment property is recorded at cost, less The excess of consideration transferred, the amount of any accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date loss.
The depreciation policy is consistent with that described fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over for property, plant and equipment.
the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair Investments value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, in the case Investments comprise of investments in equity instruments.
of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in All equity instruments are held for long term investment and profit for the period.
are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, where the fair value can be measured reliably.
Where the fair Goodwill arising on a business combination is not amortised value of the instruments cannot be measured reliably, for but is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more example, when there is variability in the range of estimates, frequently if there are indicators that goodwill may be the investment will be recognised at cost less accumulated impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in impairment losses, in accordance with IAS 39 Financial profit or loss.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
b Brands Brands acquired through a business combination are initially Impairment of non-financial assets recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date and Property, plant and equipment, Investment property and amortised to profit or loss on a straight line basis over their Intangible assets are annually reviewed for indications of estimated useful economic life.
Any impairment in value is impairment, or when events or changes in circumstances recognised immediately in profit or loss.
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
This is performed for each cash-generating unit, which in the c Software development costs case of a supermarket is an individual retail outlet.
If there Costs that are directly attributable to the creation of identifiable are indications of possible impairment then a test is performed software, which meet the development asset recognition criteria on the asset affected to assess its recoverable amount against as laid out in IAS 38 Intangible assets are recognised as carrying value.
An impaired asset is written down to its intangible assets.
Direct costs include consultancy costs, recoverable amount which is the higher of value in use or its fair the employment costs of internal software developers and value less costs to sell.
In assessing value in use, the estimated borrowing costs.
Borrowing costs are capitalised until such future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a time as the software is substantially ready for its intended use.
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
All other software development and maintenance costs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
If there is indication of an increase in fair value of an asset that had been previously impaired, then this is recognised Software development costs recognised as assets are held at by reversing the impairment, but only to the extent that the historic cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment, recoverable amount does not exceed the carrying amount that and are amortised over their estimated useful lives 3 to 10 would have been determined if no impairment loss had been years on a straight line basis.
Impairment losses previously recognised relating to goodwill cannot be reversed.
d Licences Separately acquired pharmaceutical licences and software Stocks licences are recognised at historic cost less accumulated Stocks are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable amortisation and impairment.
Those acquired in a business value.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow moving items.
combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis and comprises Pharmaceutical licences and software licences are amortised purchase price, import duties and other non-recoverable taxes over their useful lives 3 to 10 years on a straight line basis.
Stocks represent goods for resale.
Property, plant and equipment Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary a Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include directly attributable costs.
Annual reviews are made of estimated useful lives and material residual values.
Leases Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of b Depreciation rates used to write off cost less residual value ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating on a straight line basis are: leases: all other leases are classified as finance leases.
Freehold land 0% Lessor accounting operating leases Freehold buildings 2.5% Assets acquired and made available to third parties under Leasehold land Over the lease period operating leases are recorded as Property, plant and equipment and Investment property and are depreciated on a straight line Leasehold buildings Over the shorter of lease basis to their estimated residual values over their estimated period and 2.5% useful lives.
Operating lease income is credited on a straight Plant, equipment, fixtures 10% to 33% line basis to the date of the next rent review.
and vehicles Assets under construction 0%
