96 Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Company accounting policies 52 weeks ended 29 January 2012 under UK GAAP Basis of preparation recoverable amount does not exceed the carrying amount These separate financial statements of Wm Morrison that would have been determined if no impairment loss had Supermarkets PLC the Company have been prepared on a been recognised for the asset.
going concern basis under the historic cost convention, except as disclosed in the accounting policies set out below, and in Financial instruments accordance with applicable accounting standards under UK Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Companys GAAP and the Companies Act 2006. balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation a Financial assets to the Companys financial statements.
i Trade and other debtors: Trade and other debtors are initially recognised at fair value.
Provision is made when there is Accounting reference date objective evidence that the Company will not be able to recover The accounting period of the Company ends on the Sunday balances in full, with the charge being recognised in the profit falling between 29 January and 4 February each year.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Investments a Investments in subsidiary undertakings ii Cash: Cash and cash equivalents includes cash-in-hand, Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less cash-at-bank and bank overdrafts together with short term, provision for impairment.
highly-liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash, with an insignificant risk of a change in value, b Investments in equity instruments within three months from the date of acquisition.
All equity instruments are held for long term investment and are measured at fair value, where the fair value can be measured b Financial liabilities reliably.
Where the fair value of the instruments cannot be i Trade and other creditors: Trade and other creditors are stated measured reliably, the investment will be recognised at cost at fair value.
less accumulated impairment losses in accordance with FRS 26 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
ii Borrowings: Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value, net of Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Subsequent to initial recognition, any difference between the redemption value and the initial Fixed assets carrying amount is recognised in profit for the period over the Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
Costs include directly attributable costs.
Annual reviews are made of estimated useful c Derivative financial instruments lives and material residual values.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value, which normally equates to cost, and are remeasured at Depreciation fair value through profit or loss, except where the derivative The policy of the Company is to provide depreciation at rates qualifies for hedge accounting.
which are calculated to write off the cost less residual value of tangible fixed assets on a straight line basis.
The rates i Cash flow hedges applied are: Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Companys exposure to variability Freehold land 0% in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly Freehold buildings 2.5% probable forecast transaction.
Leasehold improvements Over the shorter of lease period and 2.5% The Company has cross-currency swaps designated as cash flow Plant, equipment, hedges.
These derivative financial instruments are used to fixtures and vehicles 10% to 33% match or minimise risk from potential movements in foreign exchange rates inherent in the cash flows of the US Dollar Assets under construction 0% private placement loan notes.
Fixed assets are reviewed for indications of impairment when To minimise the risk from potential movements in energy prices, events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying the Company has energy price contracts which are designated as amount may not be recoverable.
This is performed for each cash flow hedges.
income generating unit, which in the case of a supermarket is an individual retail outlet.
If there are indications of possible To minimise the risk from potential movements in foreign impairment, then a test is performed on the asset affected exchange rates, the Company uses forward exchange contracts to assess its recoverable amount against carrying value.
which are designated as cash flow hedges.
An impaired asset is written down to its recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use or its net realisable value.
Derivatives are reviewed annually for effectiveness.
Where In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, that reflects current market assessments of the time value of or highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of money and the risks specific to the asset.
any gain or loss on the movement in fair value of the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity through If there is indication of an increase in fair value of an asset the statement of total recognised gains and losses STRGL.
that had been previously impaired, then this is recognised by reversing the impairment, but only to the extent that the Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 97 The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge is A liability or asset is recognised in the balance sheet in respect immediately recognised in the profit and loss account within of the Companys net obligations to the scheme and is stated cost of sales for the energy price contracts and within interest net of deferred tax.
payable in relation to the cross-currency swaps.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of The Company also operates a stakeholder pension scheme a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gains or and contributions are charged to the profit and loss account losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified as they arise.
into the profit and loss account when the transaction occurs.
Foreign currencies ii Fair value hedges Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value exchange at the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet hedges when they hedge the Companys exposure to changes date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised foreign currency are retranslated at the rates of exchange at the firm commitment.
The hedging instrument is stated at fair balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are value and any changes in fair value are immediately recognised included in the profit and loss account for the period except in equity.
when they deferred in reserves as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument Provisions expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies Provisions are created where the Company has a present legal for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, where it loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is is probable that it will result in an outflow of economic benefits recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately to settle the obligation from the Company, and where it can recognised in the profit and loss account.
When a forecast be reliably measured.
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss reported in equity is immediately transferred to the profit Provisions are made in respect of individual properties where and loss account.
there are obligations for onerous contracts, dilapidations and certain decommissioning obligations for petrol filling stations.
Capital management The amounts provided are based on the Companys best The capital management policy of the Company is consistent estimate of the likely committed outflow to the Company.
with that of the Group set out in note 18.
Where material, these estimated outflows are discounted to net present value.
Borrowing costs All borrowing costs are recognised in the Companys profit and Leases loss account on an accruals basis, except for interest costs that Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of are directly attributable to the construction of buildings and ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating other qualifying assets which are capitalised and included within leases: all other leases are classified as finance leases.
the initial cost of the asset.
Capitalisation of interest ceases when the asset is ready for use.
Lessor accounting operating leases Assets acquired and held for use under operating leases are Pension costs recorded as fixed assets and are depreciated on a straight line The Company operates defined benefit and defined contribution basis to their estimated residual values over their estimated schemes.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme useful lives.
Operating lease income is recognised on a straight under which the Company pays fixed contributions into a line basis to the date of the next rent review.
A defined benefit scheme is one that is not a defined contribution scheme.
Pension benefits under defined Lessee accounting operating leases benefit schemes are defined on retirement based on age at Rental payments are taken to the profit and loss account date of retirement, years of service and a formula using either on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
the employees compensation package or career average revalued earnings.
Lessee accounting finance leases The present value of the minimum lease payments payable The Company operates a defined benefit retirement scheme during the lease term is included within fixed assets and the which is funded by contributions from the Company and corresponding lease commitments are shown as obligations members.
The defined benefit scheme is not open to new to the lessor.
Lease payments are split between capital and members.
Pension scheme assets, which are held in separate interest elements using the annuity method.
Depreciation trustee administered funds, are valued at market rates.
Pension on the relevant assets and interest are charged to the profit scheme obligations are measured on a discounted present value and loss account.
basis using assumptions as shown in note 41.
The operating and financing costs of the scheme are recognised separately in the Deferred and current taxation profit and loss account in the period in which they arise.
Current tax payable is based on the taxable profit for the year Death-in-service costs are recognised on a straight line basis using tax rates in effect during the period.
Taxable profit differs over their vesting period.
Actuarial gains and losses are from the profit as reported in the profit and loss account as it is recognised immediately in the STRGL.
adjusted both for items that will never be taxable or deductible and timing differences.
The Company has a right to recognise an asset, should one arise, in respect of the Companys net obligations to the pension schemes.
Therefore either an asset or a liability is recognised in the balance sheet, and is stated net of deferred tax.
98 Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Company accounting policies continued 52 weeks ended 29 January 2012 under UK GAAP Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which Financial contracts result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more Where the Company enters into financial contracts to guarantee tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at average rates the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the expected to apply when they crystallise, based on tax rates Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time of income and expenditure in taxation computations in as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to different periods from those in which they are included make a payment under the guarantee.
Share capital A net deferred tax asset is recognised only when it is recoverable Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs on the basis that it is more likely than not that there will be directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Where the Company has purchased its own equity share capital, the consideration paid, including directly attributable Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
incremental costs, is deducted from retained earnings until the shares are cancelled.
On cancellation, the nominal value Stocks of the shares is deducted from share capital and the amount Stocks are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable is transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow moving items.
Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis and comprises Exemptions purchase price, import duties and other non-recoverable taxes The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from less rebates.
Stocks represent goods for resale.
preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Cash flow statement and exemption from the disclosure Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary requirements of FRS 29 Financial instruments: disclosures.
course of business, less estimated costs necessary to make The cash flows of the Company and financial instruments the sale.
disclosures are included in the consolidated financial statements.
Share-based payments The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to parties from disclosing related party transactions with wholly certain employees in exchange for services rendered by them.
owned entities that are part of the Wm Morrison Supermarkets The fair value of the share-based award is calculated at the date PLC Group.
of grant and is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
This is based The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available on the Companys estimate of share options that will eventually under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not vest.
This takes into account movement of non-market presented a profit and loss account for the Company.
conditions, being service conditions and financial performance, if relevant.
The fair value of equity-settled awards granted is not subsequently revisited.
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial stochastic option pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The cost of the share-based award relating to each subsidiary is calculated, based on an appropriate apportionment and recharged through intercompany.
