Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Information at your fingertips Consumer Our website, www.
co. uk, allows you Family life to learn more about Morrisons and our offering.
From entertainment to bringing up baby and looking after your pets.
View our current and Offers archived bi-monthly magazine and read our Latestpromotions handy health information for the whole family.
 Pressreleases marketing Our suppliers  Read about what food is produced fresh near your home and explore our seasonal calendar Market Street to see which foods are fresh at different times More about our unique in-store offering, of the year.
along with video presentations of where our food comes from and how to buy, cook Lets Grow and present it.
You can now find nutrition Information about our Lets Grow scheme, information for Market Street on our website.
including how to register, facts, how it works and teaching resources.
Food and drink Information about our food ranges, Kiddicare healthy eating and mouth-watering recipes See our range of baby and toddler products along with ideas of what drink goes well and order online at www.
Corporate Our corporate website, Shareholder information www.
co. uk corporate, Other relevant shareholder information is has the following sections.
available, for example share price history, dividends, financial calendar and AGM minutes.
Work with Morrisons Career opportunities and information Electronic communications about working for Morrisons.
For our Electronic communications eComms is the dedicated recruitment website, go to fastest and most environmentally friendly www.
com way to communicate with our shareholders.
Media centre Instead of receiving paper copies of the annual Latest releases about the growing estate and interim financial results, notices of of Morrisons, along with promotions and shareholder meetings and other shareholder product news.
documents, you will receive an email to let you know this information is available on our website.
Corporate responsibility Here you can find out about our corporate Visiting our website to obtain our results reduces responsibility ethos, including how we take our environmental impact by saving on paper good care of our environment, society and how and also reduces our print and distribution costs.
co. uk cr Sign up to eComms on our website at Investors www.
co. uk corporate User-friendly and follow the investor eComms link.
Presentations, announcements and financial reports can be quickly and easily downloaded About Morrisons or viewed on-screen as PDFs.
You can easily You will find information about the Group, navigate around the Annual report and its operations, strategy and structure, financial statements 2011 12 on-screen, and past financial information.
viewing only the parts you want to, at www.
co. uk corporate ar2012 Webcasts Webcasts of the Directors delivering the preliminary results for 2011 12 on 8 March 2012 are available.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Hilmore House, Gain Lane Bradford BD3 7DL Telephone Visit our website 0845 611 5000 www.
