Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 167 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Forward-looking statements Certain information included in this Annual Report and Accounts is forward-looking and involves risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forwardlooking statements.
Forward-looking statements cover all matters which are not historical facts and include, without limitation, projections relating to results of operations and financial conditions and the Companys plans and objectives for future operations, including, without limitation, discussions of expected future revenues, nancing plans, expected expenditures and divestments, risks associated with changes in market conditions and pressures on margins, changes in the level of litigation, employee motivation, the performance and resilience of the Companys systems and infrastructure, the level of government regulation and financial risks such as uctuations in exchange and interest rates.
Forward-looking statements can be identied by the use offorward-looking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, plans, projects, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
All forward-looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are based upon information known tothe Company on the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only at their respective dates.
Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Otherthan in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether asa result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts shall exclude any liability under applicable laws that cannot be excluded inaccordance with such laws.
Wolseley plc 168 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes Stay up to date This report is complemented by a range of online information and resources Main corporate site Shareholder information Annual report site www.
com section Keysections include Ourbusinesses, Visit our online annual report site.
Visit our Investor and media centre on Investors and media and Each section of the annual report can our corporate website to stay updated Responsibility.
There is also information bedownloaded in pdf format.
on Wolseleys results, financial calendar on our strategy and links to our and latest press releases.
Within the business unit websites.
Site tools Investor and media centre you will nd include information pack download, the Shareholder centre where you will alert services and an option to get nd information on the AGM, dividends, content feeds.
electronic communications, share price and managing your shares.
Credits Printing Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar Printed by Pureprint Group.
The printing inks are www.
com made with non-hazardous vegetable oil from Board photography by Andy Wilson renewable sources.
Over 90 per cent of solvents and Marcus Ginns and developers are recycled for further use and Location photography by Andy Wilson recycling initiatives are in place forallother waste associated with this production.
Pureprint Group is FSC with strict procedures in place to safeguard Paper the environment through all processes.
This report is printed on Amadeus 50 Silk paper and cover board, with Amadeus 100 offset used The greenhouse gas emissions from the production inthe financial section.
Amadeus 50 Silk is made and distribution of this Annual Report and Accounts from 25% fide-inked post-consumer waste, have been neutralised through The Gold Standard 25%unprinted pre-consumer wasteand Basa Magogo offsetting project in South Africa.
The first Gold Standard project of its kind in the Amadeus 100 offset is made from world, this innovative behaviour-change programme 100 per cent fide-inked post teaches local communities in South Africa to burn consumer waste.
Both products coal differently in order to be more fuel efficient, are fully biodegradable and thereby reducing carbon emissions.
The technique, recyclable and produced called Basa Magogo, means Light it up!
inmillswhich hold IS0 9001 Grandmother in Zulu.
In addition to the emission andISO 14001 accreditation.
reductions, the Basa Magogo technique also improves visibility and reduces health risks by producing less smoke.
Follow us on Twitter @wolseleyplc Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Wolseley plc Registered Ofce 26 New Street St Helier Jersey JE2 3RA Channel Islands Registration No.
106605 Jersey Corporate Headquarters Grafenauweg 10 CH-6301 Zug Switzerland Telephone 41 0 41 723 2230 Fax 41 0 41 723 2231 www.
