How were doing Letter to share owners Operating costs contained 2012, mainly in the faster-growing geographic andfunctional markets such as media investment During 2012, the Group continued to reap the management and digital as like-for-like revenues benefits of containing operating costs, with andgross margin increased.
improvements across most cost categories, Part of the Groups strategy is to continue to particularly property, commercial and office costs.
ensure that variable staff costs incentives, freelance On a like-for-like basis the average number of and consultants costs are a significant proportion people in the Group increased by 1.6% in 2012. oftotal staff costs and revenue, as this provides Onthe same basis, the number of people in the flexibility to deal with volatility in revenues and Group at 31 December 2012 was 0.4% lower than at recessions or slowdowns.
This point-to-point decrease reflects variable staff costs to total staff costs was 11.4%, the adjustments in staff costs made in the second half compared with 12.2% in 2011 and 9.7% in 2009. of 2012, following the slowdown in revenue growth Asa proportion of revenue, variable staff costs were after the first quarter of the year.
Also on a like-for- 6.7% in 2012 compared with 7.2% in 2011 and like basis, revenues increased by 2.9% and gross 5.7% in 2009.
The business is, therefore, well margin 2.4%.
positioned if current market conditions change.
Reported staff costs, excluding incentives, rose In the second half of 2012, the Group received the byover 5% and by over 7% in constant currency.
proceeds from the sale of the stake in Buddy Media and Incentive payments amounted to 291 million or also completed the sale of the freehold of 285 Madison over $465 million, which was well over 16% of Avenue, the New York headquarters of Young & headline operating profit before incentives and Rubicam Inc.
These two transactions combined income from associates, compared with 338 million resulted in an exceptional gain of 102 million.
Performance in parts of the Offsetting this gain, an exceptional restructuring Groups custom research, public relations and public charge of 93 million was taken, the majority of affairs, healthcare and direct, digital and interactive which was to address certain structural issues within businesses fell short of the maximum performance businesses primarily in Western Continental Europe objectives agreed for 2012, as the like-for-like and to balance staffing levels and align staff costs revenue growth rate slowed in quarters two and given anticipated levels of revenue.
This followed the record profit and Although one of the Super Marios, Mario Draghi, margin performance in 2011, when most of the who took over as the President of the European Groups operating companies achieved maximum Central Bank, has certainly improved the prospects of incentive levels.
Our objective remains to pay out the Eurozone in the last year or so, it seems that slow approximately 20% of operating profit before bonus growth or stagnation in Western Continental Europe and taxes at maximum and 15% at target and, is likely tocontinue for some time.
We may well only insome cases, 25% at super-maximum.
be half way through a lost decade, post-Lehman.
Headline operating margins, before all incentives In addition, the devastating effects of Hurricane and income from associates, were 16.9%, down Sandy, the significant loss of power in New York and 0.1margin points, compared with 17.0% last year.
the subsequent flooding which occurred, had some TheGroups staff cost to revenue ratio, including impact on the operational effectiveness of certain of incentives, increased by 0.3 margin points to 58.9% the Groups IT infrastructure and the Group has compared with 58.6% in 2011.
Following intentional reviewed its back-office systems and made provision reductions in 2009 and 2010 after the Lehman crisis, for the write-off of IT equipment.
This will accelerate the Group increased its investment in people, the Groups overhaul of its approach to centralising particularly in the latter part of 2011 and in early IT services.
