Our 2012 financial statements Accounting policies he consolidated financial statements of WPP plc anditssubsidiaries theGroup for the year ended 31December 2012 have been prepared inaccordance T withInternational Financial Reporting Standards IFRS asadopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of theGroup for the year ended 31December 2012.
The Groups financial statements have also been prepared inaccordance withInternational Financial Reporting Standards asissuedby the International Accounting Standards Board.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical costconvention, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
Theprincipal accounting policies are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the results ofthe Company and allits subsidiary undertakings made upto the same accounting date.
All intra-Group balances, transactions, income andexpenses are eliminated in full onconsolidation.
Theresults ofsubsidiary undertakings acquired ordisposed ofduring the period are included or excluded from the consolidated income statement fromtheeffective date of acquisition or disposal.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 171 Our 2012 financial statements Accounting policies Goodwill and other intangible assets Brand names with finite lives 10-20 years.
Intangible assets comprise goodwill, certain Other proprietary tools 3-10 years.
acquiredseparable corporate brand names, acquired Other including capitalised computer software , acquired proprietary tools and 3-5 years.
capitalised computer software not integral to a related item of hardware.
Goodwill represents the excess of fair value Contingent consideration attributed toinvestments in businesses or subsidiary undertakings overthe fair value of the underlying Contingent consideration is accounted for in netassets, including intangible assets, at the date accordance withIFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken of contingent consideration earnout agreements are annually ormore frequently if events or changes initially recorded at fair value which is the present incircumstances indicate a potential impairment.
value of the expected cash outflows of the obligations.
Thecarrying value of goodwill is compared to the The obligations are dependent on the future financial netpresent value of future cashflows derived from performance of the interests acquired typically over theunderlying assets using a projection period of up afourto five-year period following the year of to five years for each cash-generating unit.
After the acquisition and assume the operating companies projection period a steady growth rate representing improve profits in line with directors estimates.
anappropriate long-term growth rate for theindustry Thedirectors derive their estimates from internal is applied.
Any impairment is recognised immediately business plans together with financial due diligence as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
performed in connection with the acquisition.
Corporate brand names, customer relationships Subsequent adjustments to the fair value are and proprietary tools acquired as part of acquisitions recorded inthe consolidated income statement of businesses are capitalised separately from goodwill withinrevaluation offinancial instruments.
For as intangible assets if their value can be measured acquisitions completed prior to1January 2010, reliably on initial recognition and it is probable that suchadjustments are recorded in the consolidated the expected future economic benefits that balance sheet within goodwill.
areattributable to the asset will flow to the Group.
Certain corporate brands of the Group are considered to have an indefinite economic life Property, plant and equipment because of the institutional nature of the corporate brand names, their proven ability tomaintain market Property, plant and equipment are shown at cost leadership and profitable operations overlong lessaccumulated depreciation and any provision periods of time and the Groups commitment to forimpairment with the exception of freehold land develop and enhance their value.
The carrying value which is not depreciated.
The Group assesses the of these intangible assets is reviewed at least annually carrying value of its property, plant and equipment for impairment and adjusted to the recoverable to determine if any impairment has occurred.
Wherethis indicates that an asset may be impaired, Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to the Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 write offthe cost less estimated residual value of each Impairment of Assets inassessing thecarrying asset on astraight-line basis over its estimated useful amount of the asset.
This process includes comparing life as follows: its recoverable amount with its carrying value.
172 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Our 2012 financial statements Accounting policies Depreciation is provided at rates calculated towrite On disposal the cumulative gain or loss offthe cost less estimated residual value of each previously recognised in equity is included in asseton a straight-line basis over its estimated useful theprofit or loss for theyear.
life, asfollows: Freehold buildings 50 years.
Leasehold land and buildings over the term Inventory and work in progress ofthe lease or life of the asset, if shorter.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3-10 years.
Work in progress is valued at cost, which includes Computer equipment 3-5 years.
outlays incurred on behalf of clients and an appropriate proportion of directly attributable costs and overheads on incomplete assignments.
Provision is made for Interests in associates and joint ventures irrecoverable costs where appropriate.
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
An associate is an entity over which the Group hassignificant influence.
In certain circumstances, significant influence may be represented by factors Trade receivables other than ownership and voting rights, such asrepresentation on the Board of Directors.
Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for The Groups share of the profits less losses of badand doubtful debts.
associate undertakings net of tax, interest and noncontrolling interests is included in the consolidated income statement andthe Groups share of net Foreign currency and interest rate hedging assetsis shown within interests in associates in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Groups share of the The Groups policy on interest rate and foreign profits less losses and net assets is based on current exchange rate management sets out the instruments information produced by the undertakings, adjusted and methods available to hedge interest and currency to conform with the accounting policies of the Group.
risk exposures andthe control procedures in place The Group assesses the carrying value of its toensure effectiveness.
associate undertakings to determine if any impairment The Group uses derivative financial instruments has occurred.
Where this indicates that an investment to reduceexposure to foreign exchange risk and may be impaired, theGroup applies the requirements interest rate movements.
The Group does not of IAS 36 in assessing thecarrying amount of the holdorissue derivative financial instruments investment.
This process includes comparing its forspeculative purposes.
recoverable amount with its carrying value.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at The Group accounts for joint venture investments the datea derivative contract is entered into and are under the equity method which is consistent with the subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each Groups treatment of associates.
Theresulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging Other investments instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature Other investments are designated as available for ofthe hedge relationship.
sale and are shown at fair value with any movements At the inception of the hedge relationship the in fair value taken to equity.
entity documents the relationship between the WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 173 Our 2012 financial statements Accounting policies hedging instrument and hedged item, along with Liabilities in respect of option agreements itsrisk management objectives and its strategy forundertaking various hedge transactions.
Option agreements that allow the Groups equity Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and partners torequire the Group to purchase a nononanongoing basis, the Group documents whether controlling interest are treated as derivatives over the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging equity instruments and are recorded in the relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes consolidated balance sheet at fair value and the in fair values or cash flows ofthe hedged item.
valuation is remeasured at each period end.
Fair Note 25 contains details of the fair values of value isbased on the present value of expected thederivative instruments used for hedging purposes.
cashoutflows and themovement inthe fair Changes in the fair value of derivatives that valueisrecognised as income or expense within aredesignated and qualify as fair value hedges are revaluation of financial instruments in the recorded in profit or lossimmediately, together with consolidated income statement.
any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value Derecognition of financial liabilities of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow or netinvestment hedges is deferred in equity.
In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion Recognition and Measurement, a financial liability isrecognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts of the Group is only released to the consolidated deferred in equity are recycled inprofit or loss in the income statement when the underlying legal periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit obligation is extinguished.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains andlosses Convertible debt previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of Convertible debt is assessed according to the thecost ofthe asset or liability.
substance of thecontractual arrangements and is Hedge accounting is discontinued when the classified into liability and equity elements on the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or basis of the initial fair value oftheliability element.
exercised, or nolonger qualifies for hedge accounting.
The difference between this figure and the cash At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the received is classified as equity.
hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained The consolidated income statement charge for inequity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If thefinance cost is spreadevenly over the term of the ahedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, convertible debt so that atredemption the liability thenet cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity equals the redemption value.
istransferred to net profit or loss for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated Other debt asseparate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host Other interest-bearing debt is recorded at the contracts and the host contracts are not carried at proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
fairvalue with unrealised gains or losses reported inthe consolidated income statement.
174 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Our 2012 financial statements Accounting policies Borrowing costs when the quantitative targets have been achieved: on the element related to qualitative targets, revenue is Finance costs of borrowing are recognised in the recognised when theincentive is received or receivable.
consolidated income statement over the term of The Group receives volume rebates from certain thoseborrowings.
suppliers for transactions entered into on behalf of clients that, based on the terms of the relevant contracts and local law, are either remitted to clients Revenue recognition or retained by the Group.
If amounts are passed onto clients they are recorded as liabilities until Revenue comprises commission and fees earned in settledor, if retained by the Group, are recorded respect ofamounts billed.
Direct costs include fees asrevenue when earned.
paid to external suppliers where they are retained toperform part or all of aspecific project for a client Consumer Insight and the resulting expenditure is directly attributable to the revenue earned.
Revenue is stated exclusive Revenue recognised in proportion to the level of ofVAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
service performed for market research contracts is based on proportional performance.
In assessing Advertising and Media Investment Management contract performance, both input and output criteria are reviewed.
Costs incurred areused as an objective Revenue is typically derived from commissions on input measure of performance.
The primary input media placements and fees for advertising services.
ofall work performed under these arrangements is Revenue may consist of various arrangements labour.
As a result of the relationship between labour involving commissions, fees, incentive-based revenue and cost, there is normally adirect relationship or a combination of the three, as agreed upon with between costs incurred and the proportion of each client.
Costs incurred Revenue is recognised when the service is asaproportion of expected total costs isused performed, inaccordance with the terms of the  performance measure.
The amount of revenue Thisindicative proportional performance measure recognised depends on whether we act as an agent or  against other more as a principal in an arrangement with a client.
Where subjective criteria i. e. relevant output measures we act as an agent, the revenue recorded is the net suchas the percentage of interviews completed, amount retained when the fee or commission is percentage of reports delivered to a clientand the earned.
Although the Group may bear credit risk in achievement ofany project milestones stipulated in respect of these activities, the arrangements with our the contract.
In the event of divergence betweenthe clients are such that weconsider that we are acting as objective andmore subjective measures, the more an agent on their behalf.
Insuch cases, costs incurred subjective measures take precedence since these with external suppliers such asmedia suppliers are areoutput measures.
Where theGroup acts as While most of the studies provided in connection a principal and contracts directly with suppliers for withtheGroups market research contracts are media payments and production costs, the revenue undertaken in response to an individual clients or recorded is the gross amount billed.
group of clients specifications, in certain instances Incentive-based revenue typically comprises both astudy may be developed as an off-the-shelf product quantitative and qualitative elements: on the element offering sold to a broad client base.
For these related to quantitative targets, revenue is recognised transactions, revenue is recognised when the product WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 175 Our 2012 financial statements Accounting policies is delivered.
Where the terms of transaction provide 12 months and the remainder as non-current.
for licensing the product on a subscription basis, Anyinterest and penalties accrued are included revenue is recognised over the subscription period on inincome taxes both in the consolidated income a straight-line basis or, if applicable, based on usage.
Where the final Substantially all services are provided on a fixed outcome of suchmatters differs from the amount price basis.
Pricing may also include a provision for recorded, anydifferences may impact the income asurcharge where the actual labour hours incurred in taxand deferred tax provisions in theperiod in completing a project are significantly above the labour which the final determination is made.
hours quoted in theproject proposal.
In instances The tax laws that apply to the Groups where this occurs, the surcharge will be included in the subsidiaries may be amended by the relevant tax total revenue base on whichto measure proportional authorities.
Such potential amendments are regularly performance when the actualthreshold is reached monitored and adjustments are made to the Groups provided that collectability isreasonably assured.
tax liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities where necessary.
Public Relations & Public Affairs and Branding The tax currently payable is based on taxable & Identity, Healthcare and Specialist profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net Communications profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees expense that are taxable or deductible in other years andservices tobe performed subject to specific and it further excludes items that are never taxable agreement.
Revenue is recognised when the service or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax isperformed, in accordance withthe terms of the iscalculated using tax rates that have been enacted contractual arrangement.
Revenue is recognised or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
onlong-term contracts, if the final outcome can Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable beassessed with reasonable certainty, by including orrecoverable on differences between the carrying inthe consolidated income statement revenue amounts ofassets and liabilities in the financial andrelated costs ascontract activity progresses.
statements and the corresponding tax bases used inthecomputation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred Taxation tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences unless specifically excepted by IAS 12 Corporate taxes are payable on taxable profits at Income Taxes.
Deferred tax is charged or credited current rates.
The tax expense represents the sum inthe consolidated income statement, except when ofthe tax currently payable and deferred tax.
itrelates to items charged or credited to other The Group is subject to corporate taxes in a comprehensive income or directly to equity, in number ofdifferent jurisdictions and judgement is whichcase the deferred tax is also dealt with in other required in determining the appropriate provision comprehensive income or equity.
Deferred tax assets fortransactions wherethe ultimate tax are recognised to the extent that it is probable that determination is uncertain.
In such circumstances, taxable profits will be available against which the Group recognises liabilities for anticipated taxes deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
based on the best information available and where Suchassets and liabilities are not recognised if the the anticipated liability is both probable and temporary difference arises from the initial recognition estimable.
Such liabilities are classified as current of goodwill or other assets and liabilities other than when the Group expects tosettle the liability within ina business combination in a transaction that affects 176 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Our 2012 financial statements Accounting policies neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
the expected return onassets are shownwithin The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is finance costs andfinance income respectively.
reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to Actuarial gains and losses arerecognised the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient immediately in theconsolidated statement taxable profits will be available to allow all or part ofcomprehensive income.
ofthe asset to be recovered.
Where defined benefit plans are funded, the Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable assetsof theplan are held separately from those temporary differences arising on investments in ofthe Group, in separate independently managed subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint funds.
Pension plan assets aremeasured at fair value ventures, except where the Group is able to control and liabilities are measured on anactuarial basis the reversal of the temporary difference and it is using the projected unit method and discounted probable that the temporary difference will not atarate equivalent to the current rate of return on reverse in the foreseeable future.
ahigh-quality corporate bond of equivalent currency Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when and term to the plan liabilities.
The actuarial there is a legally enforceable right to set off current valuations are obtained at least triennially and are tax assets against current tax liabilities and when updated at each balance sheet date.
they relate to income taxes levied by the same Recognition of a surplus in a defined benefit plan taxation authority and the Group intends to settle is limited based on the economic gain the Company itscurrent tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
isexpected to benefit from in the future by means of Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that a refund or reduction in future contributions to the areexpected to apply in the period when the liability plan, in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
is settled orthe asset is realised based on enacted orsubstantively enacted legislation.
Deferred tax ischarged or credited in theconsolidated income Finance leases statement, except when it relates toitems charged orcredited directly to equity or the consolidated Assets held under finance leases are recognised as statement of comprehensive income, in which assets ofthe Group at the inception of the lease at casethe deferred tax is also dealt with in equity or thelower oftheirfair value and the present value the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged tothe consolidated income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing Retirement benefit costs payments are treated as consisting ofcapital and interest elements and the interest is charged tothe For defined contribution plans, contributions are consolidated income statement as it is incurred.
charged tothe consolidated income statement as payable inrespect oftheaccounting period.
For defined benefit plans the amounts charged Operating leases tooperating profit are the current service costs and gains andlosses on settlements and curtailments.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the They are included as part of staff costs.
Past service consolidated income statement on a straight-line costs are recognised immediately in theconsolidated basis over the lease term.
Any premium or discount income statement if the benefits have vested.
If the on the acquisition of a lease is spread over the life benefits have notvested, the costsare recognised over ofthe lease on a straight-line basis.
the period until vesting occurs.
Theinterest cost and WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 177 Our 2012 financial statements Accounting policies Translation of foreign currencies New IFRS accounting pronouncements Foreign currency transactions arising from normal At the date of authorisation of these financial trading activities are recorded at the rates in effect at the statements, thefollowing Standards and date of thetransaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities Interpretations, which have not been applied in these denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: translated at the year-end exchange rate.
Foreign IFRS 9: Financial Instruments: currency gains and losses arecredited or charged IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements: totheconsolidated income statement as they arise.
IFRS 11: Joint Arrangements: The income statements of overseas subsidiary IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: undertakings are translated into pounds sterling at IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement: averageexchange rates and the year-end net assets IAS 1 amended : Presentation of ofthesecompanies are translated at year-end FinancialStatements: exchange rates.
IAS 19 amended : Employee Benefits: Exchange differences arising from retranslation IAS 27 revised : Separate Financial Statements: ofthe opening net assets and on foreign currency IAS 28 revised : Investments in Associates and borrowings tothe extent that they hedge the Groups Joint Ventures: and investment in suchoperations are reported in the IAS 32 amended : Financial Instruments: consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising The Group does not consider that these Standards onthe acquisition of a foreign entity are treated and Interpretations will have a significant impact asassets and liabilities of the foreign entity and onthe financial statements of the Group except for translated at the closingrate.
additional disclosures when the relevant standards come into effect.
In the current year, the following Standards Share-based payments andInterpretations became effective: IFRS 7 amended : Financial Instruments: The Group issues equity-settled share-based Disclosures: and payments including share options to certain IAS 12 amended : Income Taxes.
employees and accounts for these awards in The adoption of these Standards and accordance with IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment.
Interpretations has not led to any changes in Equity-settled share-based payments are measured theGroups accounting policies.
atfair value excluding the effect of non-marketbased vesting conditions at the date of grant.
Details regarding thefair value of equity settled share-based Critical judgements in applying transactions areset out innotes 22 and 26. accounting policies The fair value determined at the grant date is recognisedin the consolidated income statement as Management is required to make key decisions and anexpense on a straight-line basisover the relevant judgements in the process of applying the Groups vesting period, based onthe Groups estimate of the accounting policies.
The most significant areas where number of shares that will ultimately vest and adjusted such judgements have been necessary are revenue for the effect ofnon-market-based vesting conditions.
recognition, goodwill and other intangibles, payments due to vendors earnout agreements, acquisition reserves, taxation and accounting for 178 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Our 2012 financial statements Accounting policies and Directors responsibility statement pension liabilities.
Where judgement has been applied, the key factors taken into consideration aredisclosed in the accounting policies and the appropriate note in these financial statements.
Directors responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken asawhole: and the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken asawhole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Sir Martin Sorrell Paul Richardson Group chief executive Group finance director 22 April 2013 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 179
