How were doing Letter to share owners As a result of all this, headline PBIT rose over ofthe year compared with the beginning of 2012.
7%to 1.531 billion from 1.429 billion, up over So why was 2012 such a difficult year?
Reported PBIT rose over were certainly in stronger shape with profits at an 4% to 1.311 billion from 1.258 billion, up over all-time high as a proportion of GDP, margins 8% in constant currencies.
generally stronger, share prices rising as institutional Net finance costs excluding the revaluation of investors rotated out of cash or government securities financial instruments were 214 million, up 7% and sitting on, in the case of US-based multinationals, from 200 million in 2011, reflecting higher average over $2 trillion in cash with relatively unleveraged net debt, offset by lower funding costs.
But, whilst clients were certainly in profit before tax increased by over 7% over 12% better shape than pre-Lehman in September 2008, inconstant currencies to 1.317 billion and reported they still lacked the necessary confidence given the profit before tax was up over 8% well over 14% grey swans, or known unknowns.
Black swans are inconstant currencies to 1.092 billion.
the unknown unknowns which, by definition, we The Groups tax rate on headline profit before donot know what they are like Cyprus, or the tragic tax was 21.2%, compared with 22.0% in 2011, Boston bombings.
andon reported profit before tax was 18.1% against There are at least four grey swans, perhaps five 9.1% in 2011.
The difference in the reported tax rate now in the case of the UK.
Firstly, the fragility of the is primarily due to the exceptional release in 2011 Eurozone, certainly better since Mario Draghi took ofprior year corporate tax provisions following over as President of the ECB, but still subject to theresolution of a number of open matters.
potential shocks, for example, from elections in Italy Diluted headline earnings per share rose over or potential corruption problems in Spain, or a black 8% over 13% in constant currencies to 73.4p and swan in Cyprus.
The Eurozone has also been aided by diluted reported earnings per share decreased by over others stressing the need to reduce unemployment and 2% increased by almost 2% in constant currencies surrendering the inflation rate constraint, for example, to 62.8p, again reflecting the release of prior year by the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank in the taxprovisions in 2011.
US, the re-elected Prime Minister Abe in Japan and perhaps the new Governor of the Bank of England in the UK.
This has certainly helped equity securities too.
2012s challenges Second, the problems of the Middle East, which are probably now, if anything, worse than a year Despite being a record year, 2012 felt very different.
ago, with heightened conflicts and tensions in We reached our targets, but we got there ugly.
Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Gaza, Syria and above all, Having budgeted 4% like-for-like revenue growth at potential conflicts between Israel and Iran.
the beginning of 2012, the first quarter started well Third, a China or BRICs hard or soft landing, on budget, if not ahead, and with the quarter one although all the evidence we have seems to point revised forecast strengthening, investment in talent toasoft landing in China and continued growth in continued following the additions made at the end of Brazil and India, and even stronger growth in Russia.
However, as the like-for-like revenue growth The rise of the hundreds of millions in the new rate started to slow in quarter two, we did not start middle-classes in all these countries seems to be to make the cost adjustments quickly enough to thereal economic motive force, particularly for the counter the increased staff investment until quarters fast-moving consumer goods industries.
Certainly, three and four, although we are now much better inthe case of China, the West seems to have balanced for 2013, with the like-for-like number fundamentally misunderstood the significance of ofpeople in the business slightly down at the end the12th Five Year Plan.
That plan looks for lower 26 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012
