Our 2012 financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 24.
Risk management policies Including the effect of interest rate and cross-currency swaps, 81.2% of the year-end USdollar net debt is at fixed rates averaging 5.53% for an average Foreign currency risk period of 92 months: 73.3% of the sterling net debt is at a fixed rate of 6.07% The Groups results in pounds sterling are subject to fluctuation as a result for an average period of 58 months: and 66.7% of the euro net debt is at of exchange rate movements.
The Group does not hedge this translation fixed rates averaging 6.50% for an average period of 38 months.
exposure to its earnings but does hedge the currency element of its net assets using foreign currency borrowings, cross-currency swaps and Other than fixed rate debt, the Groups other fixed rates are achieved forward foreign exchange contracts.
principally through interest rate swaps with the Groups bankers.
TheGroup also uses forward rateagreements and interest rate caps The Group effects these currency net asset hedges by borrowing in tomanage exposure to interest rate changes.
At31 December 2012 thesame currencies as the operating or functional currencies of noforward rate agreements or interest rate caps were in place.
The majority of the Groups debt is therefore interest rate derivatives are used only to hedge exposures tointerest denominated in US dollars, pounds sterling and euros.
Borrowings in ratemovements arising from the Groups borrowings and surplus cash these currencies represented 98.5% of the Groups gross indebtedness balances arising from its commercial activities and are not traded at31 December 2012 at $3,828 million, 750 million and 1,274 million independently.
Payments made under these instruments are accounted and 96.7% of the Groups average gross debt during the course for on an accruals basis.
Going concern and liquidity risk The Groups operations conduct the majority of their activities in their In considering going concern and liquidity risk, the directors have own local currency and consequently the Group has no significant reviewed the Groups future cash requirements and earnings projections.
Any significant cross-border The directors believe these forecasts have been prepared on a prudent trading exposures are hedged bythe use of forward foreign-exchange basis and have also considered the impact of a range of potential contracts.
No speculative foreign exchange trading is undertaken.
The directors have concluded that theGroup should be able to operate within its current facilities and Interest rate risk comply with its banking covenants for the foreseeable future and The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on both interest-bearing therefore believe it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements assetsand interest-bearing liabilities.
The Group has a policy of actively ofthe Group on a going concern basis.
managing its interest rate risk exposure while recognising that fixing rates on all its debt eliminates the possibility of benefiting from rate At 31 December 2012, the Group has access to 5.2 billion of committed reductions and similarly, having all its debt at floating rates unduly bank facilities with maturity dates spread over the years 2013 to 2042 exposes the Group to increases in rates.
Given the strong cash generation of the business, its debt maturity profile and available facilities, the directors believe the Group has sufficient liquidity to match its requirements for the foreseeable future.
