102 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2012 1.
Accounting policies WS Atkins plc the Company is a public limited company which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered ofce is Woodcote Grove, Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey, KT18 5BW, England.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, including the application of new IFRSs and interpretations unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The Consolidated Financial Statements of WS Atkins plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied by the valuation of pensions, share-based payments, available-for-sale financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Material estimates applied across the Groups businesses and joint ventures are reviewed to a common standard and adjusted where appropriate to ensure that consistent treatment of similar and related issues that require judgement is achieved upon consolidation.
Any revisions to estimates are recognised prospectively.
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with IFRS also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are disclosed under Critical Accounting Policies and are incorporated by reference on page 38 of the Business Review.
Going concern The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Income Statement and Balance Sheet include the accounts of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings and its share of joint ventures.
The results of the subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement up to the date of disposal.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairments.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date irrespective of any non-controlling interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Goodwill is reviewed on nalisation of fair values and any adjustments required to the accounting are recorded within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Where subsidiaries adopt accounting policies that are different from the Group, their reported results are restated to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation.
Where subsidiaries do not adopt accounting periods that are coterminous with the Groups, results and net assets are based upon accounts drawn up to the Groups accounting reference date based on unaudited accounts.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 103 Joint ventures In accordance with IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures, the Group accounts for joint ventures under the equity method of accounting.
The Groups share of a joint ventures profit after tax is included from the date on which the Group acquires joint control.
Within the Consolidated Balance Sheet the investment is recorded at cost classied as a non-current asset and subsequently adjusted to reect the Groups share of the movements in the joint ventures net assets post acquisition.
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures are stated in accordance with Group accounting policies.
Where joint ventures adopt accounting policies that are different from the Group, their reported results are restated to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
Where joint ventures do not adopt accounting periods that are coterminous with the Groups, results and net assets are based upon unaudited accounts drawn up to the Groups accounting reference date.
PPP PFI concessions Assets constructed by PPP PFI concession companies are classied in the accounts of the joint ventures as financial assets or intangible assets, depending on whether the grantor or user has the primary responsibility to pay the operator for the concession services.
To date, all of the Groups PPP PFI concession assets have been classed as financial assets.
The financial asset represents an interest-bearing, long term receivable.
The cost of the financial asset at any one time is equal to the accumulated value of the service delivery plus accumulated interest charged to the financial asset less amounts received to date.
The financial asset is measured at fair value.
Where it is classed as a loan receivable, any movement in fair value is taken to the income statement.
Where it is classed as available-for-sale, any movement in fair value is taken to reserves.
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts.
Revenue from contracting activities represents the value of work carried out during the year including amounts not yet invoiced.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying value.
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be measured reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date, as measured by the contract costs incurred.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that contract costs incurred will be recovered.
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected resultant loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Employee benefit Trusts The accounts of the Employee benefit Trusts EBTs are incorporated into the results of the Group as, although they are administered by independent trustees and their assets are held separately from those of the Group, in practice the Groups advice on how the assets are used for the benefit of employees is normally accepted.
The Group bears the major risks and rewards of the assets held by the EBTs until the shares vest unconditionally with the employees.
Shares in WS Atkins plc held by the EBTs are shown as a reduction in retained earnings deficit.
Other assets and liabilities held by the EBTs are consolidated with the assets of the Group.
Foreign currency transactions and translation Functional and presentation currency Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys and Groups presentation currency.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are re-measured.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash ow hedges, for example.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 104 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Group companies Assets and liabilities of all of the Groups entities that have a functional currency different from the Groups presentation currency are translated into the Groups presentation currency at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Trading results are translated at average rates of exchange.
Differences resulting from the retranslation of opening net assets and results for the period at closing rates are taken to other comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Operating segments Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker CODM.
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identied as the chief executive officer and the Group finance director.
The Groups operating segments for management purposes reect predominantly its key geographical markets.
The segments are: UK: North America: Middle East: Asia Pacic and Europe: and Energy.
These segments form the basis for reporting the Groups segment information as it is the main determinant of the Groups risks and returns.
The Group considers the United Kingdom to be its country of domicile.
Inter-segment transfers and transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
Revenue Revenue from long term contracts comprises the value of work performed during the period calculated in accordance with the Groups policy for contract accounting set out below.
Revenue from other contract activities represents fee income receivable in respect of services provided during the period.
Under certain services contracts, the Group manages customer expenditure and is obliged to purchase goods and services from third-party contractors and recharge them to the customer at cost.
The amounts charged by contractors and recharged to customers are excluded from revenue and cost of sales where the Group is acting solely as an agent.
Receivables, payables and cash relating to these transactions are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Revenue recognition and contract accounting The value of contract work in progress comprises the costs incurred on contracts plus an appropriate proportion of overheads and attributable profit.
Fees invoiced on account are deducted from the value of work in progress and the balance is separately disclosed in trade and other receivables as amounts recoverable on contracts, unless such fees exceed the value of the work in progress on any contract in which case the excess is separately disclosed in trade and other payables as fees invoiced in advance.
Revenue is recognised on the majority of the Groups contracts on a percentage completion basis when the outcome of a contract or project can be reasonably foreseen.
Under the percentage completion method, the percentage of the total forecast revenue reported at any point in time is calculated based upon the proportion of total costs incurred to date as a percentage of total forecast costs or, in some cases, based upon the estimated physical percent complete of the total work to be performed under the contract.
In some cases, a margin provision is then made, depending on how far progressed each project is and the risk prole of the project.
Where contracts span two or more accounting periods, profit is not generally recognised until the contract is 50% complete.
In addition, provision is made in full for estimated losses and, where the outcome of a contract cannot be reasonably foreseen, profit is taken on completion.
Revenue recognition on outsourcing contracts is determined by reference to the proportion of the annual service delivered to date.
Where the costs of obligations in relation to the non-renewal or termination of a contract are higher in the final period of the contract, a proportion of revenue is deferred each period to meet these anticipated costs.
Full provision is made for losses on outsourcing contracts if the forecast costs of fullling the contract throughout the contract period exceed the forecast income receivable.
In assessing the amount of the loss to provide on an outsourcing contract, account is taken of the Groups share of the forecast results from any joint ventures which the contract is servicing.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 105 Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time-apportionment basis using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash ow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income.
Interest income on impaired loans is recognised using the original effective interest rate.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Pre-contract costs The Group accounts for all pre-contract costs in accordance with IAS 11, Construction contracts.
Costs incurred before it becomes probable that a contract will be obtained are charged to expenses.
Directly attributable costs incurred after that point are recognised in the balance sheet and charged to the income statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP PFI concessions, over the same period as the Groups interest in any Special Purpose Company SPC charges the equivalent capitalised amounts to the income statement.
Bid recovery fees are deferred and credited to the income statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP PFI concessions, over the same period as the Groups interest in any SPC credits the equivalent capitalised amounts to the income statement.
Where the Groups interest in any SPC reduces, the deferred bid recovery fees are credited to the income statement in proportion to the reduction of the Groups interest.
Exceptional items Where certain expense or revenue items recorded in a period are material by their size or incidence, the Group reects such items as exceptional and these are shown separately in the income statement.
Exceptional items are also summarised by class in the segmental analyses, excluding those that relate to interest and tax.
Retirement benefit schemes The Group operates dened contribution and dened benefit pension schemes which require payments to be made into separately administered funds.
A dened contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays xed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benets relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
A dened benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a dened contribution plan.
Typically dened benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
For dened benefit schemes, regular valuations are prepared by independent professionally qualied actuaries to determine the level of contributions required to fund the benets set out in the scheme rules.
The Group accounts for pensions in accordance with IAS 19, Employee benets.
The cost of the dened contribution schemes is charged to operating profit as incurred.
The cost of the dened benefit schemes is charged as follows: s the current service cost incurred during the period to provide retirement benets to employees is charged to operating profit s gains or losses arising from settlements or curtailments not covered by actuarial assumptions are included in operating profit s a charge representing the expected increase in scheme liabilities is included in net finance costs.
This is based on the present value of scheme liabilities at the beginning of the period s a credit representing the expected return on scheme assets is included within net finance costs.
This is based on the market value of the assets of the schemes at the start of the period allowing for expected cash ows during the period.
For dened benefit schemes, all actuarial gains and losses asset experience, liability experience and changes in assumptions are recognised immediately in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The difference between the market value of scheme assets and the present value of scheme liabilities is recognised as a retirement benefit asset or liability in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
To the extent that it is recoverable, any related deferred tax asset or liability is included in the relevant category of receivable payable.
The Group has elected to recognise actuarial gains and losses in full as they arise through retained earnings deficit.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 106 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
In accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based payments, the cost of share-based payments awarded after 7 November 2002 is charged to the income statement over the performance and vesting periods of the instruments.
The cost is based on the fair value of the awards made at the date of grant adjusted for the number of awards expected to vest.
In accordance with the transitional provisions within IFRS 2, no charge is made in respect of instruments awarded before 7 November 2002.
The credits associated with the amounts charged to the income statement are included in retained earnings deficit until the awards are exercised.
Where awards are settled by the new issue of shares, any proceeds received in respect of share options are credited to share capital and share premium.
Where awards are settled in shares held by the EBTs, any proceeds are credited to retained earnings deficit.
Share awards are granted by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries.
The Company charges to cost of investment in subsidiaries an amount equivalent to the equity-settled element of the annual IFRS 2 charge, with an equivalent credit to reserves in accordance with IFRIC 11, Group and treasury share transactions.
Income tax Current and deferred income tax are recognised in the income statement for the period except where the taxation arises as a result of a transaction or event that is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Income tax arising on transactions or events recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity is charged or credited to other comprehensive income or directly to equity respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
However, deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where it is known that the earnings will be distributed.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment.
Prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful economic life.
Amortisation ceased on 1 April 2004 and the carrying value of existing goodwill was frozen at that date and subject to annual impairment review.
On acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired business at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill arises when the fair value of the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of the identiable net assets.
In accordance with IFRS 3, Business combinations, goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is subject to impairment review both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair value less costs to sell.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business acquisition is allocated to each of the cash-generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Goodwill is monitored at the operating segment level.
Goodwill that arose prior to 1 April 1997 was written off to retained earnings deficit.
profit or loss on disposal of the underlying businesses to which this goodwill related will not include goodwill previously recorded as a deduction from equity.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 107 Acquired customer relationships Acquired customer relationships consist of intangible assets arising on the consolidation of recently acquired businesses, that are separable from goodwill in accordance with IFRS 3, Business combinations, and IAS 38, Intangible assets, and do not fall within the Groups other classes of intangible assets.
These comprise principally existing customer relationships which may give rise to future orders customer relationships, and existing order books backlog orders.
Acquired customer relationships are recognised at fair value and have a nite useful life.
Amortisation of customer relationships is calculated on a straight-line basis over the customer relationships estimated useful lives of between one and twenty years.
Backlog orders are amortised over their estimated useful lives of three years.
Software licences Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specic software.
These costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives of between two and five years.
Corporate information systems In accordance with IAS 38, Intangible assets, the Groups corporate information systems are treated as an intangible asset.
Costs included are those directly attributable to the design, construction and testing of new systems including major enhancements and internally generated costs from the point of inception to the point of satisfactory completion where the probable future economic benets arising from the investment can be assessed with reasonable certainty at the time the costs are incurred.
Maintenance and minor modications are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
The corporate information systems recognised as assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life of six years.
Trade names and trademarks Trade names and trademarks have arisen on the consolidation of recently acquired businesses and are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Where trade names and trademarks are considered to have a nite useful life, amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis over that life.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Cost comprises purchase price after discounts and rebates plus all directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis calculated at annual rates to write off the cost less residual value of each asset over the term of its estimated useful economic life as follows: Freehold buildings 10 to 50 years Short leasehold over the life of the lease Plant and machinery 3 to 12 years No depreciation is provided in respect of freehold land.
The directors annually review the estimated useful economic lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment wherever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identiable cash ows cash-generating units.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 108 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Financial assets The Group classies its financial assets into the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and availablefor-sale.
The classication depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classication of its assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classied as current assets except where the maturity is greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, in which case they are classied as non-current assets.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets Level 1 is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted market prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms-length basis.
The quoted market price used by the Group is the mid-market price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market Level 2 are determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on estimates.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included within current assets except where the maturity is greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date in which case they are included as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables consist of trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents, which are shown separately in the balance sheet.
Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount less provision for impairment which, due to their short term nature, approximates to their fair value.
Other receivables include loan notes receivable in respect of disposals, which are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any provision for impairment.
This valuation approximates to their fair value.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classied in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or management intends to dispose of it within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Interest on available-for-sale financial assets calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the income statement as part of finance income.
Impairment of financial assets Assets carried at amortised cost The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash ows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Any impairment is charged to the income statement.
Impairment testing for trade receivables is described below in the accounting policy paragraph relating to trade receivables.
For other receivables carried at amortised cost, impairment loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
Assets classied as available-for-sale The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
The Group uses the criteria referred to in the accounting policy relating to trade receivables below.
If any evidence of impairment exists, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classied as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed through the Consolidated Income Statement.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 109 Inventories Inventories are stated at cost less impairment.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out method.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for services performed in the ordinary course of business.
If collection is expected in one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer, they are classied as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, demand deposits and other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignicant risk of changes in value.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash ow hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash ows of hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 22.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classied as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Cash ow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassied to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when the forecast cash ow that is hedged takes place.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast cash ow is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast cash ow is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Lease obligations Finance leases Lease arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee are treated as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised within property, plant and equipment at the leases commencement and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the asset.
A liability is recognised for the present value of the minimum lease payments within current and or non-current liabilities as appropriate.
Rental payments are apportioned between capital and interest expense to achieve a constant rate of interest charge on the outstanding obligation.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 110 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Where the Group acts as a lessor in a finance lease, receivables under finance leases represent outstanding amounts due under these agreements less finance charges allocated to future periods.
Finance lease interest is recognised over the primary period of the lease so as to produce a constant rate of return on the net cash investment.
Operating leases Where the Group acts as lessee in an operating lease arrangement, the lease payments are charged as an expense to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives received are also recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Where the Group acts as lessor in an operating lease arrangement, rental income from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease incentives provided are also recognised over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods and services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Accounts payable are classied as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised at original invoice amount.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Onerous contract provisions are recognised for losses on contracts where the forecast costs of fullling the contract throughout the contract period exceed the forecast income receivable.
In assessing the amount of the loss to provide on any contract, account is taken of the Groups share of the forecast results from any joint ventures which the contract is servicing.
The provision is calculated based on discounted cash ows to the end of the contract.
Vacant property provisions are recognised when the Group has committed to a course of action that will result in the property becoming vacant.
The provision is calculated based on projected discounted cash ows to the end of the lease, after making assumptions for void and rent free periods.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups Financial Statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Disposal groups held for sale Disposal groups are classied as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 111 Application of new IFRSs and interpretations a New and amended standards adopted by the Group There are no new IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the first time during the current financial year that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
b New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 April 2011 and not early adopted s Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures on derecognition effective 1 July 2011 s Amendment to IFRS 1, First time adoption, on xed dates and hyperination effective 1 July 2011 s Amendment to IAS 12, Income taxes, on deferred tax effective 1 January 2012 s Amendment to IAS 1, Financial statement presentation, regarding other comprehensive income effective 1 July 2012 s Amendment to IAS 19, Employee benets effective 1 January 2013 s IFRS 9, Financial instruments effective 1 January 2015 s IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements effective 1 January 2013 s IFRS 11, Joint arrangements effective 1 January 2013 s IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities 1 January 2013 s IFRS 13, Fair value measurement effective 1 January 2013 s IAS 27 revised 2011, Separate financial statements effective 1 January 2013 s IAS 28 revised 2011, Associates and joint ventures effective 1 January 2013.
Of these, the amendment to IAS 19 and IFRS 9 are expected to have the most significant effect on the Groups Financial Statements.
The impact on the Group will be as follows: to immediately recognise all past service costs: to amend the way in which administrative expenses are allowed for: and to replace interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net dened benefit liability.
The Group is yet to assess the full impact of the amendments.
Changes to treatment of expenses are unlikely to result in a material change to the overall income statement charge, however had the standard been applied to next years financial statements the combined estimated net finance cost for the Groups dened benefit schemes would increase from circa 10m to circa 15m as a result of the removal of expected rate of returns.
IFRS 9 is expected to replace IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, from 2015, subject to EU adoption.
IFRS 9 in issue at 31 March 2012 only concerns the classication and measurement of financial assets.
New requirements for accounting for financial liabilities, impairment and hedge accounting are still under discussion by the International Accounting Standards Board and the Financial Accounting Standards Board US.
The requirements for IFRS 9 in issue as at 31 March 2012 would result in the Groups available-for-sale financial assets being reclassied as financial assets measured either at amortised cost or at fair value through profit or loss.
As a result, movements in the fair value of these assets would no longer be recognised in other comprehensive income.
Retrospective application of this requirement would result in the closing balance of fair value movements recognised in other comprehensive income being transferred to retained earnings.
The effect within the Groups reserves at 31 March 2012 would be a transfer of 1.6m gain to retained earnings.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 112 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash ow interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board of directors.
Group Treasury identies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specic areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and use of derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
These policies are further described within the Treasury policies and objectives section of the Business Review.
Where individual sensitivities are disclosed below, all other variables are held constant.
a Market risk Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, debt investments, deposits and derivative financial instruments.
The following foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk analysis, required by IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, being primarily the US dollar to sterling and euro to sterling exchange rates, and UK interest rates.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: s changes in the fair value of financial instruments designated as available-for-sale are recognised directly in other comprehensive income s changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges are fully effective with no impact on the Consolidated Income Statement s changes in the carrying value of other financial instruments not in hedging relationships only affect the Consolidated Income Statement.
i Foreign exchange risk The Group operates in a number of international territories.
Each business undertakes a large proportion of its commercial transactions within its local market and in its local functional currency.
Foreign exchange risk arises from a proportion of commercial transactions undertaken in currencies other than the local functional currency, from financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency and on the Groups investments in foreign operations.
Group policy is for each business to undertake commercial transactions in its own functional currency whenever possible.
When this is not possible, the Group manages its foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions using appropriate derivative contracts arranged via Group Treasury.
Cash ows are reviewed on a monthly basis throughout the duration of projects and the future cover amended as appropriate.
Trade receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency arise from commercial transactions and are therefore largely hedged as part of the process described above.
Remaining financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency include bank accounts, loans and intercompany funding balances.
These are generally unhedged, with the exception of balances that are themselves designated as hedging instruments used to hedge the Groups investments in foreign operations.
The Groups primary exposure to foreign exchange risk on unhedged financial instruments arises mainly in respect of movements between US dollar including dollar-pegged currencies and sterling and between the euro and sterling.
At 31 March 2012, if sterling had strengthened weakened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the US dollar then profit after tax would be higher lower by approximately 1.4m 2011: 7.9m lower higher and equity would be 1.4m higher lower 2011: 7.9m lower higher.
If sterling had strengthened weakened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the euro, then profit after tax would be lower higher by approximately 0.5m 2011: 0.1m higher lower and equity would be 0.5m lower higher 2011: 0.1m higher lower.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
A proportion of the currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations has been managed by taking out foreign currency loans in the relevant currency.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 113 ii Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to interest rate risk arises from cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss which are all interest bearing, offset in part by interest bearing bank loans.
The majority of these items are at oating rates of interest or xed deposits for periods of less than six months: changes in the interest rate results in changes in interest-related cash ows.
No interest hedging is currently undertaken by the Group or its subsidiaries.
If interest rates for the year to 31 March 2012 had been 10 basis points higher lower, then profit after tax for the year would have been approximately 0.1m 2011: 0.2m higher lower.
iii Price risk Price risk is the risk that a decline in the value of assets adversely impacts the profitability of the Group.
The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments held by the Group and classied on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
To manage this risk, the Group diversies its portfolio.
Diversication of the portfolio is done in accordance with limits set by the Group.
The Group is also exposed to price risk because of investments held by the Group in unlisted corporate bonds available-for-sale financial assets.
The fair value of these investments at 31 March 2012 was 6.1m 2011: nil.
Management monitors exposures to price risk on an ongoing basis.
The Group is not materially exposed to commodity price risk.
Certain longer term project and framework contracts include indexation clauses that are applied to unit rates to offset the effect of ination on input costs over the duration of the agreement.
The Group is exposed to price risk to the extent that ination differs from the index used and forecast project outcomes that form the basis of revenue recognition include an estimate of this risk where it is present.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group will suffer financial loss as a result of counterparties defaulting on their contractual obligations.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, and investments in unlisted corporate bonds available-for-sale financial assets, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions, with the maximum exposure to the risk equivalent to 100% of the carrying value disclosed in the Groups balance sheet at 31 March.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
The Groups derivative financial instruments and cash deposits are placed with banks which are rated investment grade.
The Groups policy is that cash and investments should not be concentrated with any one counterparty.
For trade and other receivables, concentration of credit risk is very limited due to the Groups broad customer base.
An assessment of credit quality of the customer is made where appropriate using a combination of external rating agencies, past experience and other factors.
In circumstances where credit information is unavailable or poor, the risk is mitigated primarily by the use of advance payments.
Exposure and payment performance are monitored closely both at individual project and client level, with a series of escalating debt recovery actions taken where necessary.
In view of current economic circumstances, additional management attention has been focused on the recovery of debtors.
c Liquidity risk The Group funds its activities through cash generated from its operations and, where necessary, bank borrowings and finance leases.
The Groups banking facilities include cash facilities and bank guarantees.
Cash ow forecasting is performed in the operating entities of the Group and aggregated by Group Finance.
Group Treasury monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
Such forecasting takes into consideration the Groups debt nancing plans and covenant compliance.
Any surplus cash is invested by Group Treasury in interest bearing current accounts, term deposits and money market deposits, choosing instruments with appropriate maturities and sufficient liquidity to provide sufficient headroom as determined by the above-mentioned forecasts.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 114 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The table below analyses the maturity prole of the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual cash ows.
On demand or within Between 1 Between 2 Over 5 1 year and 2 years and 5 years years Discount Total 2012 m m m m m m Hire purchase and finance leases 2.0 1.7 2.8 0.6 0.5 6.6 1 Bank loans 104.5 104.5 Trade payables 87.8 87.8 On demand or within Between 1 Between 2 Over 5 1 year and 2 years and 5 years years Discount Total 2011 m m m m m m Hire purchase and finance leases 2.3 1.7 3.0 0.2 0.5 6.7 1 Bank loans 46.5 46.5 Trade payables 96.9 96.9 1.
The contractual cash ows in each year include the bank loans maturing in that year together with forecast contractual interest payments on those loans.
Interest is estimated using the prevailing rate at the balance sheet date.
Cash ows in foreign currencies are translated at the spot rates at the balance sheet date.
d Concentrations of financial instruments The carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, excluding derivative financial instruments, were denominated in the following currencies: 2012 2011 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Sterling 253.3 151.1 212.9 98.2 US dollar 92.1 23.8 95.5 33.8 UAE dirham 30.0 3.1 42.5 4.0 Qatari rial 28.9 2.7 19.0 1.8 China RMB 23.5 0.1 19.9 0.7 Euro 18.4 1.3 20.3 1.7 HK dollar 14.3 1.0 11.2 1.0 Saudi Arabian riyal 12.9 8.3 4.2 Denmark krone 8.7 3.8 10.4 3.3 Other 42.6 3.2 31.8 5.4 Total 524.7 198.4 467.7 149.9 The carrying value of the financial assets of the Company of 104.3m are denominated in US dollars 2011: 41.3m.
The carrying value of the financial liabilities of the Company of 104.0m are denominated in US dollars 2011: 5.0m sterling and 41.3m US dollars.
Financial assets consist of loan notes: trade receivables net : intercompany receivables nil in consolidated accounts : amounts due from joint ventures: financial assets at fair values through profit or loss: financial assets designated as available-for-sale, and cash and cash equivalents.
Financial liabilities consist of trade payables: intercompany payables nil in consolidated accounts : amounts due to joint ventures: and borrowings.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 115 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benets for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group maintains or adjusts its capital structure through the payment of dividends to shareholders, issues of new shares and buyback of existing shares, and through its loan facility.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the ratio of net debt plus dened benefit pension deficit net of deferred tax to EBITDA.
This policy is unchanged from the prior year.
The ratios of net debt plus dened benefit pension deficit net of deferred tax to EBITDA at 31 March 2012 and 2011 were as follows: Group Restated 2012 2011 m m Total borrowings note 28 110.6 53.0 Less: cash and cash equivalents note 27 167.0 121.5 Net debt 56.4 68.5 Dened benefit pension deficit note 31 251.1 337.8 Net deferred tax note 20 65.4 95.0 Net debt plus dened pension deficit net of deferred tax 129.3 174.3 profit before interest and tax 146.3 105.1 Add: depreciation 17.1 15.9 Add: amortisation 9.5 8.3 EBITDA pre-adjustment for exceptional item 172.9 129.3 Less: exceptional item note 11 30.9 EBITDA 142.0 129.3 Ratios of net debt plus dened benefit pension deficit net of deferred tax to EBITDA 0.9 1.3 The calculation as at 31 March 2011 was restated as a result of deferred tax being amended to reect the nalisation of the accounting for the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation, note 20.
The Groups banking facilities include a number of financial and non-financial covenants.
Compliance with these covenants is monitored and as at 31 March 2012, and since, none of the covenants had been breached.
Fair value estimation The table below analyses the Groups financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been dened as follows: Level 1 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms-length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the mid-market price.
Level 2 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The fair value of certicates of deposit is calculated as the present value of the future cash ows, discounted at an appropriate market rate of interest.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 116 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 March 2012 and 2011: 2012 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total m m m m m m Assets Derivatives used for hedging 0.7 0.7 0.4 0.4 Marketable securities Certicates of deposit 16.0 16.0 9.8 9.8 Fixed interest securities 12.2 12.2 19.1 19.1 Life insurance policies 3.4 3.4 2.6 2.6 Floating rate notes 2.8 2.8 2.0 2.0 UK treasury bills 0.6 0.6 1.2 1.2 Available-for-sale financial assets Debt investments 6.1 6.1 Total assets 15.6 26.2 41.8 22.3 12.8 35.1 Liabilities Derivatives used for hedging 4.2 4.2 1.1 1.1 Total liabilities 4.2 4.2 1.1 1.1 There have been no changes to the classication of the Groups financial instruments carried at fair value between Level 1 and Level 2 at 31 March 2012 or 2011.
Segmental information The chief operating decision-maker has been identied as the chief executive officer and the Group finance director.
The chief executive officer and the Group finance director review the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on these reports.
The chief executive officer and the Group finance director assess the performance of the operating segments based on operating profit before interest and tax.
Information provided to the chief executive officer and the Group finance director is measured in a manner consistent with that in the Financial Statements.
a Group business segments Revenue and results Share of post-tax Inter profit loss External segment Operating Operating from joint revenue trade Revenue profit margin ventures 2012 m m m m % m UK 814.1 45.8 859.9 51.6 6.0 2.4 North America 412.4 9.5 421.9 21.2 5.0 0.2 Middle East 226.2 54.8 171.4 16.8 9.8 Asia Pacic and Europe 162.1 1.4 163.5 11.9 7.3 Energy 130.3 1.9 128.4 11.4 8.9 Total for segments 1,745.1 1,745.1 112.9 6.5 2.6 Group items: Joint ventures reported above 34.0 34.0 2.4 Unallocated central items 26.7 0.7 Total for Group 1,711.1 1,711.1 137.2 8.0 1.9 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 117 Share of posttax Inter profit loss External segment Operating Operating from joint revenue trade Revenue profit margin ventures 2011 m m m m % m UK 908.2 18.3 926.5 61.4 6.6 0.9 North America 278.7 0.5 279.2 13.8 4.9 Middle East 152.8 11.9 140.9 23.8 16.9 Asia Pacic and Europe 157.1 1.8 155.3 12.1 7.8 Energy 103.7 5.1 98.6 8.5 8.6 Total for segments 1,600.5 1,600.5 119.6 7.5 0.9 Group items: Joint ventures reported above 36.2 36.2 0.9 Unallocated central items 11.7 2.8 Total for Group 1,564.3 1,564.3 107.0 6.8 1.9 Unallocated central items include 30.9m of exceptional gains relating to a one-off pension event and 4.2m of intangible asset amortisation relating to the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation 2011: 8.0m of acquisition costs and 3.7m of intangible asset amortisation relating to the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation.
Total segment revenue excludes the share of joint venture revenue earned from centrally managed joint ventures of 24.7m 2011: 11.5m.
Reconciliation of segmental analysis to profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent and non-controlling interests: 2012 2011 m m Operating profit 137.2 107.0 profit on disposal of subsidiary undertaking 7.2 Share of post-tax profit loss from joint ventures 1.9 1.9 profit before interest and tax 146.3 105.1 Finance income 4.1 3.9 Finance cost 14.9 18.0 Net finance cost 10.8 14.1 profit before taxation 135.5 91.0 Income tax expense 28.7 18.4 profit for the year 106.8 72.6 profit attributable to: Owners of the parent 106.7 72.6 Non-controlling interests 0.1 106.8 72.6 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 118 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Balance sheet Total Total Investments Depreciation segment segment Net assets in joint Capital & assets liabilities liabilities ventures expenditure amortisation 2012 m m m m m m UK 191.1 189.4 1.7 4.1 2.8 4.0 North America 162.2 66.7 95.5 0.5 4.6 6.1 Middle East 138.6 80.6 58.0 2.3 1.9 Asia Pacic and Europe 99.9 54.0 45.9 2.1 1.8 Energy 40.2 26.1 14.1 1.4 0.6 Total for segments 632.0 416.8 215.2 4.6 13.2 14.4 Group items: Unallocated assets liabilities 438.8 534.6 95.8 1.1 20.9 12.2 Total for Group 1,070.8 951.4 119.4 3.5 34.1 26.6 Investments Depreciation Total segment Total segment Net assets in joint Capital & Restated assets liabilities liabilities ventures expenditure amortisation 2011 m m m m m m UK 198.4 194.4 4.0 1.7 1.8 4.5 North America 183.3 100.0 83.3 0.2 3.3 3.6 Middle East 101.3 66.0 35.3 0.6 2.3 Asia Pacic and Europe 89.9 48.1 41.8 1.4 1.7 Energy 27.5 27.6 0.1 0.2 0.6 Total for segments 600.4 436.1 164.3 1.9 7.3 12.7 Group items: Unallocated assets liabilities 422.6 570.6 148.0 0.4 140.7 11.5 Total for Group 1,023.0 1,006.7 16.3 1.5 148.0 24.2 During the prior year the Group made several acquisitions.
The initial accounting for these at 31 March 2011 had been determined provisionally.
Adjustments to these provisional values have since been made in respect of The PBSJ Corporation and Technical Services Scotland, as stated in note 16, and the balance sheet at 31 March 2011 has been restated to reect these adjustments.
Unallocated assets consist primarily of goodwill, deferred tax assets and UK cash and cash equivalents.
Unallocated liabilities consist primarily of central creditors, deferred tax liabilities and pension liabilities.
Capital expenditure includes additions to goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
b Group geographical segments External revenue is measured by location of operation.
There was no material difference between geographic revenue by location of operation and by location of customer.
Outside the United Kingdom, only the Groups business in the United States contributes more than 10% of the Groups revenue or non-current assets.
Non-current assets Revenue Restated 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m United Kingdom 881.2 945.4 109.2 102.5 United States 437.4 285.6 198.7 198.2 Other 392.5 333.3 16.6 16.0 Total for Group 1,711.1 1,564.3 324.5 316.7 Non-current assets exclude deferred tax assets and derivative financial instruments.
The balance sheet as at 31 March 2011 has been restated to reect the nalisation of the accounting for the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation and Technical Services Scotland as detailed above.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 119 c Major customers Revenue from the UK Government represents approximately 180.8m 2011: 228.1m of the Groups total revenue and is reected within the UK and Energy segments.
d Company The Companys business is to invest in its subsidiaries and it operates in a single segment.
Joint ventures a Share of post-tax profit loss from joint ventures 2012 2011 m m Revenue 58.7 47.7 Operating expenditure 55.6 49.0 Operating profit loss 3.1 1.3 Finance income 4.8 5.0 Finance cost 5.3 5.5 profit loss before taxation 2.6 1.8 Income tax charge 0.7 0.1 Share of post-tax profit loss from joint ventures 1.9 1.9 b Investments in joint ventures 2012 2011 m m Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 1.6 1.6 Other non-current assets 0.1 74.5 1.7 76.1 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 4.3 12.7 Other current assets 28.0 27.7 32.3 40.4 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 26.5 29.8 26.5 29.8 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 81.6 Other non-current liabilities 4.0 3.6 4.0 85.2 Share of net assets 3.5 1.5 Investments in joint ventures 3.5 1.5 Net liabilities of 0.1m in relation to the disposal of RMPA Holdings Limited after the balance sheet date have been removed from the share of net assets and redisclosed within the asset held for sale note 10.
The Groups principal joint ventures are detailed in note 42.
The joint ventures have no capital commitments 2011: none.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 120 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 5.
Operating profit analysis of costs by nature Group 2012 2011 m m Operating profit is arrived at after charging crediting : Employee benefit costs note 6 789.0 780.7 Net foreign exchange gains losses 0.4 1.0 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment: owned assets note 18 15.4 13.9 assets held under finance leases note 18 1.7 2.0 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.2 Impairment of loan notes receivable note 23 0.9 5.3 Impairment of trade receivables reversal of impairment : increase in provisions note 25 5.7 7.1 release of provisions note 25 6.9 16.0 Amortisation of intangibles: customer relationships note 17 4.8 3.6 other assets note 17 4.7 4.7 Receipts under operating leases: plant and machinery 0.1 0.5 property 2.3 1.3 Payments under operating leases: plant and machinery 9.2 9.7 property 46.1 38.2 Company operating profit was arrived at after generating 41.7m of realised profit on disposal of investments 2011: 33.3m.
Services provided by the Groups auditor During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor at costs as detailed below: Group 2012 2011 m m Statutory audit of the Company and Group Financial Statements 0.3 0.3 The audit of accounts of Group companies pursuant to legislation: UK 0.4 0.5 Non-UK 0.5 0.4 Total audit services 1.2 1.2 Other services pursuant to such legislation work relating to the interim review 0.1 0.1 Other services relating to taxation tax consultancy and work relating to local tax lings 0.5 0.4 Services relating to acquisition, due diligence and structuring 1.2 Services relating to pensions 0.2 0.2 Other 0.1 0.1 Total other services 0.9 2.0 Total 2.1 3.2 The statutory audit of the Companys annual accounts was 0.1m 2011: 0.1m.
No other services were provided to the Company by the Groups auditor 2011: none.
The Atkins Pension Plan is audited by Baker Tilly and the audit fee for 2012 was 31,000 2011: 32,000.
This audit fee was borne by the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 121 6.
Employee benefit costs Average Year end 2012 2011 2012 2011 No.
Number of full-time equivalent people including executive directors employed by the Group By segment: UK 8,654 9,635 8,201 9,135 North America 3,314 1,858 3,255 3,336 Middle East 1,754 1,639 1,961 1,555 Asia Pacic and Europe 1,633 1,561 1,684 1,539 Energy 1,029 912 1,095 945 Corporate 69 76 67 73 Group total 16,453 15,681 16,263 16,583 Aggregate employee benefit costs of those people amounted to: Group 2012 2011 m m Wages and salaries 693.9 653.4 profit share and performance-related bonus 21.2 25.9 Social security costs 62.0 54.8 Retirement benefit costs net of settlement and curtailment gains note 31 1.0 37.8 Other post-employment benefit costs note 31 3.5 2.3 Share-based payments note 34 7.4 6.5 789.0 780.7 Wages and salaries includes 7.6m of redundancy costs 2011: 6.3m relating to continuing operations.
Details of remuneration including retirement benets and interests for directors are included in the Remuneration report, which forms part of these Financial Statements.
Details of remuneration for key management are included in note 40.
The Company has no employees 2011: none.
Net finance cost Group 2012 2011 m m Interest payable on borrowings 1.9 0.9 Finance lease liabilities 0.4 0.6 Unwinding of discount note 30 0.3 0.3 Net finance cost on retirement benefit liabilities note 31 11.5 15.2 Other finance costs 0.8 1.0 Finance cost 14.9 18.0 Interest receivable on short term deposits 0.9 0.9 Interest income on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0.8 0.5 Income on available-for-sale financial assets 0.4 Interest receivable on loan notes 2.0 2.3 Unwinding of discount 0.1 Other finance income 0.1 Finance income 4.1 3.9 Net finance cost 10.8 14.1 Unwinding of discount disclosed within finance cost of 0.3m 2011: 0.3m relates to provisions.
Company finance income consisted of net interest income of 0.6m 2011: nil and unwinding of discount on loan notes receivable of nil 2011: 0.1m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 122 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 8.
Income tax expense a Analysis of charge in the year Group 2012 2011 m m Current income tax: current year 26.9 17.2 adjustment in respect of prior years 15.9 8.7 Deferred income tax note 20 17.7 9.9 Income tax on profit per income statement 28.7 18.4 Adjust for: joint venture taxation 0.1 taxation on profit on disposal of subsidiary undertaking 0.4 taxation on pension curtailment gain 7.3 tax on amortisation of acquisition intangibles 1.4 1.4 Underlying normalised income tax expense 22.4 19.9 profit before tax per income statement 135.5 91.0 Adjust for: joint venture taxation 0.1 profit on disposal of subsidiary undertaking 7.2 amortisation of acquisition intangibles 4.2 3.7 pension curtailment gain 30.9 Underlying normalised profit before income tax 101.6 94.8 Effective income tax rate 21.2% 20.2% Underlying normalised effective income tax rate 22.0% 21.0% b Factors affecting income tax rate The income tax rate for the year is lower 2011: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 26% 2011: 28%.
The differences are explained below: Group 2012 2011 % % UK statutory income tax rate 26.0 28.0 Increase decrease resulting from: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.6 0.9 Adjustment in respect of overseas tax rates 0.5 8.6 Effect of share-based payments 0.4 0.3 Tax on joint ventures 0.4 0.6 R&D tax credits 3.8 2.1 Losses not recognised for tax 3.1 Impact of change in tax rates 1.8 4.5 Other 0.2 3.4 Effective income tax rate 21.2 20.2 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 123 The underlying normalised income tax rate for the year is lower 2011: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 26% 2011: 28%.
The differences are explained below: Group 2012 2011 % % UK statutory income tax rate 26.0 28.0 Increase decrease resulting from: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.3 0.8 Adjustment in respect of overseas tax rates 0.4 7.8 Effect of share-based payments 0.6 0.3 Tax on joint ventures 0.5 0.6 R&D tax credits 5.2 2.0 Losses not recognised for tax 4.1 Impact of change in tax rates 3.1 4.3 Other 0.2 3.2 Underlying normalised effective income tax rate 22.0 21.0 c Income tax on components of other comprehensive income Group Postemployment benefit Cash ow liability hedges Total 2012 m m m At 1 April 54.2 0.2 54.0 Deferred income tax 13.4 0.7 12.7 At 31 March 40.8 0.5 41.3 Group Postemployment benefit Cash ow liability hedges Total 2011 m m m At 1 April 82.0 1.0 81.0 Deferred income tax 27.8 27.8 Current income tax 0.8 0.8 At 31 March 54.2 0.2 54.0 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 124 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 9. profit on disposal of a subsidiary undertaking On 30 November 2011 the sale of the Groups UK Asset Management business to Sodexo was completed.
Sodexo is a multi-national provider of on-site service solutions and is listed on the Paris Bourse.
The business was sold for a cash consideration of 5.2m, together with a deferred conditional amount of 0.5m.
The disposal of the UK Asset Management business has not been treated as a discontinued operation at 31 March 2012 as it did not represent a major line of business.
Group m Net consideration received or receivable at date of disposal Initial cash consideration 5.0 Cash working capital adjustment 0.2 Fair value of deferred consideration Disposal consideration 5.2 Assets and liabilities at date of disposal Property, plant and equipment 0.1 Intangible assets 0.1 Trade and other receivables 6.1 Trade and other payables 7.3 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 3.4 Other non-current liabilities 0.5 Net liabilities 4.9 profit on disposal before costs 10.1 Disposal costs incurred 2.9 profit on disposal 7.2 Company m Net consideration received or receivable at date of disposal Initial cash consideration 5.0 Cash consideration in respect of net intercompany balances 6.9 Cash working capital adjustment 0.2 Fair value of deferred consideration Disposal consideration 12.1 Investment in subsidiary Net book value of equity investment Net investment in subsidiary profit on disposal before costs 12.1 Disposal costs incurred 2.9 profit on disposal 9.2 10.
Assets held for sale The assets and liabilities relating to the Groups minority interest in RMPA Holdings Limited have been presented as held for sale following the exchange of contracts on 9 March 2012 which formed an agreement to dispose of the investment.
The transaction completed on 4 May 2012.
RMPA Holdings Limited delivered the Colchester Garrison PFI project and the sale is to a subsidiary undertaking of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited, the ultimate parent company of an existing shareholder, for a net consideration of 14.4m which comprised a gross consideration of 15.0m less 0.6m in respect of amounts previously received under loan notes.
Whilst the assets and liabilities of the minority interest represent a disposal group, the business is not reported as a discontinued operation at 31 March 2012 as it does not represent a major line of business.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 125 The major classes of assets and liabilities of the disposal group are as follows: m Assets classied as held for sale: Loan notes receivable 6.9 Total assets of the disposal group 6.9 Liabilities directly associated with assets classied as held for sale: Share of joint venture liabilities 0.1 Total liabilities of the disposal group 0.1 Total net assets of the disposal group 6.8 The profit on disposal will be reported in the Groups Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Exceptional items Items that are material either because of their size or their nature, are presented separately on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement and disclosed in the notes to the Financial Statements.
The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide an understanding of the Groups underlying performance.
An analysis of the amount presented as an exceptional item in these Financial Statements is given below: Group 2012 2011 m m Curtailment gain relating to one-off pension event note 31 30.9 The gain is included within Administrative expenses in the Groups Consolidated Income Statement.
Dividends Company and Group 2012 2011 2012 2011 pence pence m m Final dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2011 2010 19.50 18.25 19.2 17.8 Interim dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2012 2011 9.75 9.50 9.5 9.3 Dividends recognised in the year 29.25 27.75 28.7 27.1 Interim dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2012 2011 9.75 9.50 9.5 9.3 Final dividend proposed for the year ended 31 March 2012 2011 20.75 19.50 20.2 19.1 Dividends relating to the year 30.50 29.00 29.7 28.4 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting and has not been included as a liability in these Financial Statements.
As at 31 March 2012, one Employee benefit Trust had an agreement in place to waive dividends in excess of 0.01 pence per share on 213,461 ordinary shares 2011: 213,461.
A separate Employee benefit Trust also had an agreement in place as at 31 March 2012 to waive future dividends in their entirety on 2,398,078 ordinary shares 2011: 1,892,142.
These arrangements reduced the dividends paid in year by 0.6m 2011: 0.6m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 126 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13.
Earnings per share EPS Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding shares held by the Employee benefit Trusts EBTs, which have not unconditionally vested in the employees, and shares held in treasury.
Diluted earnings per share is the basic earnings per share after allowing for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of the number of options outstanding during the year.
The options relate to discretionary employee share plans.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below: Group 2012 2011 No.
000 Number of shares Weighted average number of shares used in basic and normalised basic EPS 97,891 97,667 Effect of dilutive securities share options 2,196 2,257 Weighted average number of shares used in diluted and normalised diluted EPS 100,087 99,924 m m Earnings profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 106.7 72.6 profit on disposal of subsidiary undertaking net of tax note 9 6.8 Exceptional pension curtailment gain net of tax note 11 23.6 Amortisation of intangibles from acquisition net of tax 2.8 2.3 Underlying normalised earnings 79.1 74.9 pence pence Basic earnings per share 109.0 74.3 Diluted earnings per share 106.6 72.7 Underlying normalised basic earnings per share 80.8 76.7 Underlying normalised diluted earnings per share 79.0 75.0 14.
Parent Company Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income The Company has not presented its own Income Statement or Statement of Comprehensive Income as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The profit and total comprehensive income for the year attributable to the owners of the parent was 42.7m 2011: 32.1m, which included 2.2m 2011: 3.9m of dividend income from subsidiary companies and 9.2m of profit on disposal of a subsidiary undertaking 2011: nil, see note 9.
Goodwill Group Restated 2012 2011 m m Cost at 1 April 200.4 71.0 Additions note 16 12.0 131.8 Difference on exchange 1.0 2.4 Cost at 31 March 213.4 200.4 Aggregate impairment at 1 April 8.4 8.9 Difference on exchange 0.5 Aggregate impairment at 31 March 8.4 8.4 Net book value at 31 March 205.0 192.0 During the prior year the Group made several acquisitions.
Adjustments to these provisional values have since been made in respect of The PBSJ Corporation and Technical Services Scotland, as stated in note 16.
The effect of these adjustments is that the value of goodwill at 31 March 2011 has been restated from 188.9m to 192.0m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 127 Impairment test for goodwill Goodwill is not amortised but tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of assets, at least once a year or more frequently where there is an indication that it may be impaired.
Goodwill is allocated to the Groups CGUs identied to carry out the impairment test.
The following is a summary of goodwill allocation by CGU or group of CGUs, summarised at the operating segment level: Group Restated 2012 2011 m m UK 30.6 30.6 North America 136.4 135.2 Middle East Asia Pacic and Europe 14.3 14.5 Energy 23.7 11.7 Total 205.0 192.0 The impairment test involves comparing the carrying value of the CGU or group of CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated including goodwill arising on in year acquisitions, to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
An impairment loss is recognised when the carrying value of those assets exceeds their recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount Fair value less costs to sell is the best estimate of the amount obtainable from the sale of a CGU or group of CGUs in an arms-length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of disposal.
Value in use is the present value of the future cash ows expected to be derived from the CGU or group of CGUs.
Fair value is assessed from an external perspective and value in use from a Group-internal perspective.
Both are determined using a business valuation model, taking into account planned future cash ows.
If available, third-party valuations are taken as a basis for determining fair value.
Value in use calculations Methodology The internal value in use calculations use cash ow projections based on the following financial years budget approved by management.
This budget is based on country-specic assumptions regarding the development of key economic indicators such as GDP and are, amongst others, derived from macroeconomic and financial studies.
The cash ow projections from that budget are extrapolated for the next four years using GDP-based growth factors, and then extrapolated beyond that five year period using a terminal GDP-based growth rate.
These growth rates are derived from experience and future expectations for the individual CGU or group of CGUs and do not exceed the long-term average growth rates in the markets in which the CGU or group of CGUs are active.
The cash ows are then discounted using the Groups discount rates which reect the specic risks relating to the relevant operating segments.
These discount rates are based on nominal weighted average cost of capital.
Assumptions The key assumptions used for the internal value in use calculations are as follows: Group 2012 2011 Five-year growth rate 0%-5% 0%-6% Post five-year growth rate 0%-5% 0%-2.5% Taxation rate 23% 20% Average pre-tax discount rate 14% 12% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 128 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued These ranges of assumptions have been used for the analysis of each CGU or group of CGUs within the Groups operating segments.
Goodwill of 136.4m 2011: 135.2m allocated to the North America operating segment includes 129.5m of goodwill arising on the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation.
This goodwill has been allocated to The PBSJ Corporations group of CGUs and is considered significant in comparison with the Groups total carrying amount of goodwill.
The recoverable amount of this group of CGUs has been determined using an internal value in use calculation.
The key assumptions used for this calculation are as follows: 2012 Five-year growth rate 3% Post five-year growth rate 3% Taxation rate 23% Average pre-tax discount rate 12% The carrying amount of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives allocated to The PBSJ Corporations group of CGUs for the purposes of the impairment test is 2.4m.
As at 31 March 2012 and 2011, based on these internal valuations, the recoverable value of goodwill required no impairment.
In the prior year, on 1 October 2010, the Group acquired The PBSJ Corporation and prior to 31 March 2011 the Group performed an impairment test of the goodwill arising on this acquisition.
The recoverable amount of The PBSJ Corporations group of CGUs to which this goodwill was allocated was based on fair values less costs to sell.
This amount was determined using an external valuation and the model used to support that valuation, which comprised a net present value calculation of future cash ows.
This calculation used cash ow projections over a five year period.
These projections were then extrapolated beyond that period using a terminal GDP based growth rate.
The key assumptions used in the net present value calculation of future cash ows were as follows: 2011 Five-year growth rate 9%-16% Post five-year growth rate 3% Discount rate 17% At 31 March 2011, based on this valuation, together with subsequent trading in the period following the acquisition, the recoverable amount of goodwill required no impairment.
16. Business combinations Pyry Pty Ltd, Pyry Energy Aberdeen Limited and Pyry Energy AS On 3 June 2011, the Group acquired the oil and gas business of Pyry plc Pyry.
The acquisition included the integration of 130 staff across three locations: Aberdeen, Stavanger Norway and Perth Australia.
The transaction included purchasing the entire share capital of Pyry Pty Ltd Perth, Australia, Pyry Energy Aberdeen Limited Aberdeen, UK and Pyry Energy AS Stavanger, Norway, together the Pyry companies.
The acquisition expands the Groups service offering in the oil and gas sector and provides a platform from which to grow in the worlds major oil and gas centres.
In particular, the acquisition provides increased access to significant gas developments and the liqueed natural gas market in Western Australia.
As at 31 March 2012 the fair values of acquired assets, liabilities and goodwill for this business combination have been determined on a provisional basis, pending nalisation of the post-acquisition review of the fair value of the acquired net assets.
Under IFRS 3, Business combinations, adjustments to these provisional values can be made within one year of the date of acquisition relating to facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
The nalised position will be reected in the Groups interim financial statements for the six months ended 30 September 2012.
The goodwill of 12.0m arising from the acquisition is attributable to the extensive complementary skills which enable the combined operation to provide an enhanced offering to clients and extend the Groups reach to new markets in Australia and Norway.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 129 Total consideration was made up as follows: m Cash 15.0 Completion working capital deduction 0.4 Total consideration 14.6 Provisional fair value amounts recognised as of the acquisition date for each major class of assets and liabilities assumed are as follows: m Cash 0.9 Property, plant and equipment 0.3 Intangible assets 0.1 Trade and other receivables 4.3 Trade and other payables 3.4 Deferred tax assets 0.4 Total identiable net assets 2.6 Goodwill 12.0 Total consideration 14.6 The fair value of trade and other receivables is 4.3m and includes trade receivables of 2.9m.
The gross contractual amount of trade receivables due is 3.0m, 0.1m of which is expected to be uncollectable.
There were no contingent liabilities as at the date of acquisition.
The revenue included in the Groups Consolidated Income Statement since 3 June 2011 contributed by the Pyry companies was 15.4m.
The Pyry companies also contributed 1.4m profit before tax.
Had the Pyry companies been consolidated from 1 April 2011, the Groups Consolidated Income Statement would show revenue of 1,713.7m and a profit before tax of 135.5m.
Acquisition costs of 0.4m were charged to Administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2012 in relation to the acquisition of the Pyry companies.
The PBSJ Corporation, Technical Services Scotland and Gimsing & Madsen A S During the prior year the Group made several acquisitions.
The initial accounting for these at 31 March 2011 had been determined provisionally pending nalisation of the post-acquisition review of the fair value of the acquired net assets.
Adjustments to these provisional values have been made in respect of The PBSJ Corporation acquisition date 1 October 2010 and Technical Services Scotland acquisition date 11 March 2011.
The accounting for the acquisition of Gimsing & Madsen A S acquisition date 4 November 2010 has been nalised and no adjustments have been made to the provisional values.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 130 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The PBSJ Corporation As a result of the nalisation of the accounting for the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation PBSJ, goodwill recognised on the transaction was amended from its provisional calculation.
The nalised position is given below.
Total consideration was made up as follows: $m m Cash 280.0 177.3 Employee shareholder loans forgiven 4.0 2.5 Total consideration 284.0 179.8 Final fair value amounts recognised as of the acquisition date for each major class of assets and liabilities assumed are as follows: $m m Cash 3.6 2.3 Property, plant and equipment 37.1 23.5 Intangible assets 78.0 49.4 Financial assets 17.2 10.9 Trade and other receivables 178.5 113.0 Trade and other payables 196.0 124.0 Borrowings 12.3 7.8 Deferred tax liabilities 26.6 17.0 Total identiable net assets 79.5 50.3 Goodwill 204.5 129.5 Total consideration 284.0 179.8 The fair value of trade and other receivables is $178.5m 113.0m and includes trade receivables of $90.2m 57.1m.
The gross contractual amount of trade receivables due is $93.5m 59.2m, of which $3.3m 2.1m is expected to be uncollectable.
The effect of the adjustments to the provisional values determined at 31 March 2011 is to reduce the fair value of trade and other receivables by $0.2m 0.1m, to increase the fair value of trade and other payables by $7.5m 4.9m and to reduce the fair value of deferred tax liabilities by $2.9m 1.9m, offset by an increase in goodwill of $4.8m 3.1m.
Certain assets and liabilities have also been reclassied between major classes of assets and liabilities.
The goodwill of 129.5m $204.5m arising from the acquisition is attributable to The PBSJ Corporations long-established market position and highly skilled and educated, assembled workforce, which will enhance the Group.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Acquisition costs of 8m were charged to Administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2011 in relation to the acquisition of PBSJ.
Technical Services Scotland As a result of the nalisation of the accounting for the acquisition of Technical Services Scotland, goodwill recognised on the transaction was amended from its provisional calculation.
Total consideration was made up as follows: m Cash 0.8 Total consideration 0.8 Final fair value amounts recognised as of the acquisition date for each major class of assets and liabilities assumed are as follows: m Property, plant and equipment 0.2 Trade and other payables 0.1 Total identiable net assets 0.1 Goodwill 0.7 Total consideration 0.8 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 131 The effect of the adjustments to the provisional values determined at 31 March 2011 is to increase the fair value of trade and other payables by 0.1m, offset by an increase in goodwill of 0.1m.
The goodwill of 0.7m arising from the acquisition is attributable to the extensive complementary skills which enable the Groups combined operations to provide an enhanced offering to clients.
The goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes over a 25 year period.
Other intangible assets Group Acquired Corporate Trade names customer information and Software relationships systems trademarks licences Total Restated m m m m m Cost at 1 April 2010 1.9 15.6 0.2 11.7 29.4 Additions 5.2 5.2 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings note 16 41.7 5.4 2.3 49.4 Disposals 4.4 4.4 Difference on exchange 0.5 0.1 0.6 Cost at 31 March 2011 43.1 15.6 5.6 14.7 79.0 Additions 5.1 5.1 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings note 16 0.1 0.1 Disposals 12.6 1.6 14.2 Difference on exchange 0.5 0.2 0.3 Cost at 31 March 2012 43.6 3.0 5.6 18.1 70.3 Amortisation at 1 April 2010 1.9 15.4 0.1 7.3 24.7 Amortisation charge for the year 3.6 0.1 0.7 3.9 8.3 Disposals 4.2 4.2 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.1 Amortisation at 31 March 2011 5.5 15.5 0.8 6.9 28.7 Amortisation charge for the year 4.8 0.1 4.6 9.5 Disposals 12.6 1.5 14.1 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.1 Amortisation at 31 March 2012 10.3 3.0 0.8 9.9 24.0 Net book value at 31 March 2012 33.3 4.8 8.2 46.3 Net book value at 31 March 2011 37.6 0.1 4.8 7.8 50.3 The cost and accumulated amortisation of Acquired customer relationships and Trade names and trademarks at 31 March 2011 have been restated to reect the disclosure of Trade names and trademarks, previously shown within Acquired customer relationships as a separate class of intangible asset.
Included within Trade names and trademarks are costs of 0.2m 2011: 0.2m in respect of intellectual property rights.
These costs were fully amortised at 31 March 2012 and 2011.
Included within Acquired customer relationships are costs of 5.4m 2011: 5.4m in respect of backlog orders, arising from the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation on 1 October 2010.
At 31 March 2012, the net book value of these backlog orders is 0.6m 2011: 3.1m and their remaining amortisation life is 1.5 years.
The remaining amortisation life of the other assets included within Acquired customer relationships is 18.5 years.
The amortisation charge for the year of 9.5m 2011: 8.3m is included in Administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 132 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18.
Property, plant and equipment Group Freehold Short term Plant, land and leasehold machinery buildings property and vehicles Total m m m m Cost at 1 April 2010 10.1 22.0 97.5 129.6 Additions 2.8 8.2 11.0 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings note 16 9.6 5.0 9.1 23.7 Disposals 0.4 1.6 37.5 39.5 Difference on exchange 0.2 1.4 1.6 Cost at 31 March 2011 19.3 28.0 75.9 123.2 Additions 1.5 2.3 13.2 17.0 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings note 16 0.2 0.1 0.3 Disposals 1.5 13.2 14.7 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.6 0.7 Cost at 31 March 2012 20.8 28.9 75.4 125.1 Depreciation at 1 April 2010 7.4 13.4 69.9 90.7 Depreciation charge for the year 0.2 3.2 12.5 15.9 Disposals 0.2 1.1 33.7 35.0 Difference on exchange 0.1 1.1 1.2 Depreciation at 31 March 2011 7.4 15.4 47.6 70.4 Depreciation charge for the year 0.4 4.0 12.7 17.1 Disposals 1.3 12.1 13.4 Difference on exchange 0.5 0.5 Depreciation at 31 March 2012 7.8 18.1 47.7 73.6 Net book value at 31 March 2012 13.0 10.8 27.7 51.5 Net book value at 31 March 2011 11.9 12.6 28.3 52.8 The market value of freehold land and buildings is estimated at 16.5m 2011: 19.4m.
Included in plant, machinery and vehicles above are equipment and vehicles held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts as follows: 2012 2011 m m Cost 13.8 13.3 Accumulated depreciation 7.4 6.9 Net book value 6.4 6.4 Additions to property, plant and equipment funded by finance leases were 2.0m 2011: 0.1m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 133 19.
Investments in subsidiaries Company Total m Cost at 1 April 2010 164.1 Additions 11.1 Cost at 31 March 2011 175.2 Additions 11.7 1 Disposals Cost at 31 March 2012 186.9 Impairment at 1 April 2010, 31 March 2011 0.8 1 Disposals Impairment at 31 March 2012 0.8 Net book value at 31 March 2012 186.1 Net book value at 31 March 2011 174.4 1.
During the year the Company disposed of its investment in Atkins Facilities Management Limited with a cost of 35,000 which had been fully provided against.
Further details in respect of the disposal are given in note 9.
The Groups principal subsidiaries are disclosed in note 41.
During both the current and prior year, the Company increased its investment in Atkins Investments UK Limited in order to enable Atkins Investments UK Limited to full its obligation to make shareholder contributions to Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited, note 23.
Deferred income tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same scal authority and there is a legally enforceable right to settle tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
The offset amounts are as follows: Group Restated 2012 2011 m m Deferred tax assets: deferred tax assets to be recovered after more than 12 months 79.6 103.6 deferred tax assets to be recovered within 12 months 4.6 11.7 84.2 115.3 Deferred tax liabilities: deferred tax liabilities to be recovered after more than 12 months 16.1 14.7 deferred tax liabilities to be recovered within 12 months 2.7 5.6 18.8 20.3 Deferred tax assets net 65.4 95.0 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 134 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued a Net deferred tax assets liabilities Group Restated 2012 2011 m m Accelerated depreciation 11.2 12.2 Share-based payments 3.1 3.3 Deferred tax asset on post-employment benefit liabilities 63.7 88.5 Deferred income 8.1 10.0 Amortisation of intangibles on acquisitions 14.8 16.3 Other temporary differences 10.3 17.3 Total deferred income tax 65.4 95.0 b Analysis of movements during the year Group Restated 2012 2011 m m Deferred tax assets at 1 April 95.0 149.4 Deferred tax charged to the income statement note 8 17.7 9.9 Deferred tax on acquisitions 0.4 16.8 Deferred tax charged to equity 12.2 27.8 Foreign exchange difference on deferred tax 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax assets at 31 March 65.4 95.0 Following the March 2011 Budget Statement, the main rate of UK corporation tax was reduced to 26% from 1 April 2011.
Finance Act 2011 enacted a reduction in the rate to 25% applicable from 1 April 2012.
An additional 1% reduction was announced in the March 2012 Budget Statement resulting in a tax rate of 24% from 1 April 2012.
Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 22% by 1 April 2014 but these later reductions had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, are not included in these Financial Statements.
The proposed reductions in the main rate of UK corporation tax by 1% per year to 22% by 1 April 2014 are expected to be enacted separately each year.
The overall effect of the further changes from 24% to 22%, if these applied to the deferred tax balance at 31 March 2012, would be to reduce the net deferred tax asset by approximately 6.2m being 3.1m recognised in 2013 and 3.1m recognised in 2014.
During the prior year the Group made several acquisitions.
Adjustments to these provisional values have since been made in respect of The PBSJ Corporation, as stated in note 16.
The effect of these adjustments is that the value of deferred income tax assets at 31 March 2011 has been restated from 93.1m to 95.0m.
Additionally, following a review of the offset available for deferred tax assets and liabilities in the various jurisdictions the comparatives have been restated.
Available-for-sale financial assets Group 2012 2011 m m At 1 April Additions 4.5 Net gains transferred to other comprehensive income 1.6 At 31 March 6.1 Available-for-sale financial assets comprise unlisted corporate bonds with a xed annual return of 10% and maturity date of 25 August 2016.
The bonds are denominated in UAE dirham and their fair value is based on recent market transactions.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of the corporate bonds classied as available-for-sale.
None of these financial assets is either past due or impaired.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 135 22.
Derivative financial instruments The table below shows the fair value of forward currency contracts at the year end, based on their market value: Group 2012 2011 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Current 0.4 1.7 0.2 0.5 Between one and two years 0.2 1.2 0.1 0.3 Between two and five years 0.1 1.3 0.1 0.3 Non-current 0.3 2.5 0.2 0.6 Total 0.7 4.2 0.4 1.1 The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 March 2012 and 2011 are as follows: Group 2012 2011 Sell Buy Sell Buy m m m m Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell EUR 13.3 14.0 16.4 16.5 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell USD 7.8 7.9 0.2 0.2 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell NOK 0.8 0.8 0.5 0.5 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell CAD 0.3 0.2 0.4 0.4 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell SGD 0.1 0.1 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell AUD 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell ZAR 0.5 0.4 Forward contracts to purchase INR, sell GBP 36.2 33.3 26.4 26.8 Forward contracts to purchase NOK, sell GBP 0.1 0.1 Forward contracts to purchase PLN, sell EUR 0.6 0.6 4.3 4.3 Derivatives are classied as a current asset or liability.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classied as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability, if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The amounts disclosed in the table below are the contractual undiscounted cash ows of forward currency contracts at the year end.
Group 2012 2011 Inow Outow Net Inow Outow Net m m m m m m Current 37.4 38.6 1.2 26.2 26.5 0.3 Between one and two years 10.1 11.2 1.1 12.9 13.1 0.2 Between two and five years 8.5 9.7 1.2 9.2 9.4 0.2 Non-current 18.6 20.9 2.3 22.1 22.5 0.4 Total 56.0 59.5 3.5 48.3 49.0 0.7 The Group did not use any derivative instruments during the year other than forward currency contracts and foreign exchange swaps to hedge foreign currency receipts and payments on current contracts.
All of the Groups financial instruments are classied as Level 2 under amendments to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: disclosures.
A denition of Level 2 financial instruments is included in note 2.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is calculated based on quoted forward currency rates at the balance sheet date.
The Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives and does not have any such instruments that are closely related to the host contract.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 136 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 23.
Other receivables Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Non-current assets: Loan notes receivable 26.4 27.4 8.2 7.3 Impairment of loan notes receivable 8.2 7.3 8.2 7.3 18.2 20.1 During the year the Group acquired 4.9m of additional interest-bearing loan notes in Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited 2011: 5.4m, a company in which the Group has a 10% shareholding.
Under the terms of the Connect Plus M25 finance agreement, the Group is required to lend Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited 20m over a period from May 2009 to October 2012.
This funding is lent on by Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited to Connect Plus M25 Limited, the main trading entity for the Connect Plus M25 project and the company which holds the 30 year PFI contract with the Highways Agency to design, build, fund and then operate and maintain the M25.
One of the subcontractors used by Connect Plus M25 Limited to deliver its main obligations under this project is Connect Plus Services.
The Groups interest in Connect Plus Services is disclosed in note 42 and Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited is considered a related party of the Group.
As at 31 March 2012 the Group held 18.2m of interest-bearing load notes in Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited 2011: 13.3m, the remaining 1.8m 2011: 6.7m being covered by a letter of credit.
These loan notes mature in 2039.
Loan notes of 6.9m relating to RMPA Holdings Limited have been reclassied from other receivables at 31 March 2012 and classied as an asset held for sale, note 10.
Loan notes receivable of 8.2m arising on the disposal of LSH which have no xed redemption date have been provided against in full.
None of the other receivables are past due.
Inventories Group 2012 2011 m m Raw materials and consumables 1.1 0.8 The directors consider that the carrying amount of inventories approximates their fair value.
There were no amounts of inventories written off during the year 2011: nil.
Trade and other receivables Group Company Restated 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Current assets: Trade receivables 310.9 313.6 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 24.6 30.5 Trade receivables net 286.3 283.1 Amounts recoverable on contracts 111.4 98.1 Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings note 40 159.9 89.3 Amounts due from joint ventures note 40 5.2 8.3 Other receivables 25.3 23.2 Prepayments and accrued income 17.1 20.9 445.3 433.6 159.9 89.3 During the prior year the Group made several acquisitions.
The effect of these adjustments is that the value of trade and other receivables at 31 March 2011 has been restated from 433.7m to 433.6m.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 137 At 31 March 2012 160.0m 2011: 165.7m of trade receivables were within normal payment terms and considered to be fully performing.
A further 89.8m 2011: 85.7m were past due and aged up to six months from invoice date and carried a provision for impairment of 1.0m 2011: 3.6m.
Trade receivables aged beyond six months of invoice date totalled 61.1m 2011: 62.2m and carried a provision for impairment of 23.6m 2011: 26.9m.
Movements in the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: Group 2012 2011 m m Provision for impairment at beginning of year 30.5 42.4 Increase in provisions 5.7 7.1 Release of provisions 6.9 16.0 Receivables written off as uncollectable 4.7 1.7 Difference on exchange 1.3 Provision for impairment at end of year 24.6 30.5 None of the financial assets that are fully performing were renegotiated during the year.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss In accordance with IFRS 7, disclosure is required for financial instruments that are measured in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value.
This requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level.
The Groups financial assets that are measured and recognised at fair value through profit or loss include certicates of deposit, xed interest securities, life insurance policies, oating rate notes and UK treasury bills.
The Groups financial liabilities that are measured and recognised at fair value include derivative financial instruments.
The fair value of the Groups derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 22.
The following table presents the Groups financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Group 2012 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total m m m m m m Certicates of deposit 16.0 16.0 9.8 9.8 Floating rate notes 2.8 2.8 2.0 2.0 Fixed interest securities 12.2 12.2 19.1 19.1 UK treasury bills 0.6 0.6 1.2 1.2 Life insurance policies 3.4 3.4 2.6 2.6 Marketable securities 15.6 19.4 35.0 22.3 12.4 34.7 A denition of Level 1 and Level 2 financial instruments is included in note 2.
There have been no changes to the classication of financial assets between Level 1 and Level 2 financial instruments at 31 March 2012 or 2011.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 71.3 70.0 10.6 Short term bank deposits 95.7 51.5 167.0 121.5 10.6 The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents was 0.6% 2011: 0.3%.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 138 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28.
Borrowings Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Current Hire purchase and finance leases 1.7 2.1 Bank loans 104.0 46.3 104.0 46.3 105.7 48.4 104.0 46.3 Non-current Hire purchase and finance leases 4.9 4.6 4.9 4.6 The directors consider that the carrying amount of current borrowings approximates their fair value.
The maturity prole of the carrying amount of non-current borrowings was as follows: Group 2012 2011 m m Repayable: between one and two years 1.5 1.5 between two and five years 2.7 2.9 after more than five years 0.7 0.2 4.9 4.6 The carrying amount of borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: Group 2012 2011 Hire Hire purchase purchase and finance and finance Bank loans leases Total Bank loans leases Total m m m m m m Sterling 6.5 6.5 5.0 6.7 11.7 US dollar 104.0 0.1 104.1 41.3 41.3 104.0 6.6 110.6 46.3 6.7 53.0 The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: Group 2012 2011 m m Not later than one year 2.0 2.3 Later than one year but not more than five years 4.5 4.6 More than five years 0.6 0.2 7.1 7.1 Future finance charges on finance leases 0.5 0.4 Present value of finance lease payables 6.6 6.7 Finance leases are on a xed repayment basis, with interest rates xed at the contract date.
The average effective borrowing rate was 6.1% 2011: 6.2% over a weighted average remaining period of 59 months 2011: 51 months.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 139 Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March expiring as follows: Group 2012 2011 m m Between two and five years 35.4 88.8 All of the Groups undrawn committed borrowing facilities will be subject to oating rates of interest.
The Groups principal borrowing facilities of 150.0m, signed on 30 July 2010, are unsecured and include borrowings and letter of credit facilities.
The total letters of credit in issue at 31 March 2012 was 10.6m 31 March 2011: 14.9m.
Compliance with these covenants is monitored.
As at 31 March 2012, and since, none of these covenants had been breached.
After the balance sheet date, but before the date of signing the Financial Statements, the Group raised $75m 46.7m through the successful execution of its debut issue in the US private placement market.
The proceeds are intended to be used to repay drawn funds under the Groups existing banking facilities and for general corporate purposes.
Trade and other payables Group Company Restated 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Current liabilities: Trade payables 87.8 96.9 Fees invoiced in advance 173.1 169.6 Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings note 40 84.5 69.9 Social security and other taxation 32.5 33.8 Deferred consideration on acquisitions 0.8 Deferred PFI PPP bid costs recovered and development fees 3.2 0.2 Accruals and deferred income 175.2 189.6 0.3 Other payables 34.3 30.5 0.1 506.1 521.4 84.8 70.0 During the prior year the Group made several acquisitions.
Adjustments to these provisional values have since been made in respect of The PBSJ Corporation and Technical Services Scotland as stated in note 16.
The effect of these adjustments is that the value of trade and other payables at 31 March 2011 has been restated from 516.5m to 521.4m.
The prior year balance for deferred consideration represents 0.5m outstanding in respect of Bennett and 0.3m in respect of Tramark.
These amounts were paid during the year.
The directors consider that the carrying value of the Groups trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 140 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Group 2012 2011 Onerous Vacant Onerous Vacant contracts property Total contracts property Total m m m m m m Current 3.6 3.6 0.4 6.0 6.4 Between one and two years 2.3 2.3 0.1 4.3 4.4 Between two and five years 3.0 3.0 0.4 4.3 4.7 Over five years 1.5 1.5 2.3 1.3 3.6 Non-current 6.8 6.8 2.8 9.9 12.7 Total 10.4 10.4 3.2 15.9 19.1 Group Onerous Vacant contracts property Total m m m Balance at 1 April 2011 3.2 15.9 19.1 Charge to income statement 6.2 6.2 Provisions utilised 7.0 7.0 Provisions released 4.8 4.8 Unwinding of discount 0.2 0.1 0.3 Transferred on disposal 3.4 3.4 Balance at 31 March 2012 10.4 10.4 The onerous contracts and vacant property provisions are discounted.
No provision has been released or utilised for any purpose other than that for which it was established.
The onerous contracts provision in the prior year related to PFI school and hospital facilities management contracts in the UK segment, relating to the Asset Management business.
This business was disposed of during the year note 9.
The vacant property provision is expected to be utilised over the next 11 years 2011: 11 years.
As at 31 March 2012, the Company held no provisions 2011: nil.
Post-employment benefit liabilities The Groups post-employment benefit liabilities are analysed below: Group 2012 2011 m m Retirement benefit liabilities 251.1 337.8 Other post-employment benefit liabilities 14.2 12.5 265.3 350.3 a Retirement benefit liabilities The Group operates both dened benefit and dened contribution pension schemes.
The two main dened benefit schemes are the Atkins Pension Plan the Plan and the Railways Pension Scheme, both of which are funded final salary schemes.
The assets of both schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds.
Other pension schemes include the Atkins McCarthy Pension Plan in the Republic of Ireland, which is a final salary funded dened benefit scheme, and a range of dened contribution schemes or equivalent.
The Plan is closed to the future accrual of benefit: all dened benefit members of the Plan were transferred to a dened contribution section for future service where it was clear they did not benefit from a statutory or contractual right to a final salary pension.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 141 On 1 February 2012 and following a consultation programme with employees who are members of the Plan, Atkins Limited the Groups principal UK employing company removed the link between individual employees accrued pension and future increases in salary via contractual amendment.
The reduction in the past service liability is 30.9m and this has been recognised as a curtailment gain in the year ended 31 March 2012.
In addition, primarily to reduce further future volatility of any deficit, Atkins Limited undertook an enhanced transfer value ETV exercise for deferred members of the Plan.
The exercise gave rise to a settlement gain under IAS 19 in respect of those members who transferred out their benets.
The reduction in the past service liability was 1.5m and the reduction of the assets was 1.3m, giving rise to a settlement gain of 0.2m which has been recognised in the year ended 31 March 2012.
A further 248 members elected to transfer their benets prior to 31 March 2012, although the actual transfers had not occurred by this date.
An allowance for this has been made in these disclosures.
Estimated assets of 14.0m are to be transferred alongside 15.6m of liabilities which gives rise to a settlement gain of 1.6m reected in the Consolidated Income Statement and an equal reduction in the dened benefit obligation.
As a result of the sale of the UK Asset Management business during the year, certain active members left the Building Management Section of the Plan on 30 November 2011.
The individuals retain their past service accrued benets in the Plan, however a curtailment gain arises under IAS 19 as the link to future salary increases for these members was broken at the time of the sale.
The reduction in the past service liability for this event was 0.6m and this has been recognised as a curtailment gain in the year ended 31 March 2012.
In the previous year, on 8 July 2010, the UK Government announced that private sector pension schemes should be able to link inationary pension increases to the Consumer Price Index CPI rather than the Retail Price Index RPI.
For the Railways Pension Scheme, the rules of the scheme imply that the move from RPI to CPI would impact the increases granted to pensions in payment and to increases granted to deferred pensions.
Calculations for the Railways Pension Scheme are therefore based on a CPI-based ination assumption.
The effect of this change in the year ended 31 March 2011 was to reduce the liabilities by 27m.
The Plan continues to apply RPI for the purpose of indexation.
The Atkins McCarthy Pension Plan is also closed to future accrual of benets for members who do not benefit from a statutory or contractual right to a final salary pension.
These members transferred to the Personal Retirement Savings Accounts Ireland PRSA Irish Life scheme.
The dened benefit sections of all pension schemes are closed to new entrants, who are offered membership of the dened contribution scheme.
Membership of the Groups principal pension schemes is as follows: Dened benefit schemes Dened contribution schemes Atkins Pension Railways Pension Atkins Pension Plan Scheme Plan Faithful Gould 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 No.
Members 17 62 236 277 6,579 7,167 760 731 Restricted members 1,393 Deferred pensioners 7,703 6,535 325 319 8,036 6,893 1,260 1,251 Pensioners 3,143 2,937 315 291 10,863 10,927 876 887 14,615 14,060 2,020 1,982 Restricted members in 2011 consisted of staff who were no longer accruing final salary benets but who retained their entitlement to pensions linked to final salary based on years of service accumulated prior to the closure of the scheme to future accrual.
As a result of the exercise to remove the link between individual employees accrued pension and future increases in salary, these staff are now disclosed as deferred pensioners.
In both cases, these staff are also included where appropriate within dened contribution schemes.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 142 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The main assumptions used for the IAS 19 valuation of the retirement benefit liabilities for the Atkins Pension Plan and the Railways Pension Scheme are listed in the table below: 2012 2011 Price ination Retail Price Ination RPI 3.30% 3.60% Consumer Price Ination CPI 2.30% 2.60% Rate of increase of pensions in payment Limited Price Indexation RPI-based 3.30% 3.60% Limited Price Indexation CPI-based 2.30% 2.60% Limited Price Indexation to 2.5% 2.50% 2.50% Fixed 5.00% 5.00% Rate of increase in salaries Atkins Pension Plan 4.80% 5.10% Railways Pension Scheme Uncapped 5.55% 5.85% Railways Pension Scheme Capped 3.30% 3.60% Rate of increase for deferred pensioners Atkins Pension Plan 3.30% 3.60% Railways Pension Scheme 2.30% 2.60% Discount rate 5.20% 5.60% Expected rate of return on plan assets 6.30% 6.60% Expected rate of social security increases 3.30% 3.60% Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners Men 23.8 years 23.5 years Women 25.7 years 25.5 years Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners current age 45 Men 26.1 years 25.9 years Women 28.1 years 27.8 years The actuarial tables used to calculate the retirement benefit liabilities for the Plan were the Self-Administered Pension Schemes SAPS tables, with medium cohort improvements from 2002 to 2009 and a scaling factor of 0.85 0.90 for males females respectively.
Future improvements are based on CMI improvements with a 1.5% per annum improvement trend, based on year of use application.
The Railways Pension Scheme results have been adjusted on an approximate basis to be based on the same mortality tables.
The components of the pension cost are as follows: Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2012 m m m m Current service cost 0.4 2.9 3.3 Curtailment gain 31.5 31.5 Settlement gain net 1.8 1.8 Total credit charge 32.9 2.9 30.0 Finance cost income Interest cost 59.5 11.0 0.4 70.9 Expected return on plan assets 48.9 10.6 0.5 60.0 Net finance cost 10.6 0.4 0.1 10.9 Total credit charge to income statement for dened benefit schemes 22.3 3.3 0.1 19.1 Charge for dened contribution schemes 31.0 31.0 Total credit charge to income statement 22.3 3.3 30.9 11.9 Statement of comprehensive income Gain loss on pension scheme assets 88.2 4.1 0.3 83.8 Changes in assumptions 46.7 1.5 0.3 45.5 Actuarial gain loss 41.5 2.6 0.6 38.3 Deferred tax charged credited to equity note 20 13.5 0.1 13.4 Actuarial gain loss net of deferred tax 28.0 2.5 0.6 24.9 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 143 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2011 m m m m Current service cost 1.8 3.9 5.7 Total charge 1.8 3.9 5.7 Finance cost income Interest cost 58.9 12.7 0.4 72.0 Expected return on plan assets 46.5 10.4 0.4 57.3 Net finance cost 12.4 2.3 14.7 Total charge to income statement for dened benefit schemes 14.2 6.2 20.4 Charge for dened contribution schemes 32.1 32.1 Total charge to income statement 14.2 6.2 32.1 52.5 Statement of comprehensive income Loss gain on pension scheme assets 3.9 1.6 0.2 2.5 Changes in assumptions 43.9 43.0 1.3 88.2 Actuarial gain 40.0 44.6 1.1 85.7 Deferred tax charged to equity note 20 15.1 12.7 27.8 Actuarial gain net of deferred tax 24.9 31.9 1.1 57.9 The expected return on plan assets is based on market expectations at the beginning of the year for returns over the entire life of the benefit obligation.
Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2012 m m m m Dened benefit obligation 1,116.5 206.2 7.1 1,329.8 Fair value of plan assets 911.9 160.2 6.6 1,078.7 Retirement benefit liabilities 204.6 46.0 0.5 251.1 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2011 m m m m Dened benefit obligation 1,074.4 201.0 6.7 1,282.1 Fair value of plan assets 779.6 158.4 6.3 944.3 Retirement benefit liabilities 294.8 42.6 0.4 337.8 Other includes the Atkins McCarthy dened benefit pension scheme and an unfunded pension obligation in relation to a former director, for 0.8m 2011: 0.7m.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: Expected Atkins Railways asset return Pension Plan Pension Scheme 2012 % % m % m Equities 7.50 49.3 449.2 59.9 96.0 Bonds 4.70 46.1 420.4 29.4 47.1 Property 6.10 4.4 40.2 10.4 16.7 Other cash 2.60 0.2 2.1 0.3 0.4 100.0 911.9 100.0 160.2 Expected Atkins Railways asset return Pension Plan Pension Scheme 2011 % % m % m Equities 7.80 52.7 410.9 61.2 97.0 Bonds 5.10 41.8 326.2 28.7 45.4 Property 6.50 4.9 38.1 9.8 15.6 Other cash 3.80 0.6 4.4 0.3 0.4 100.0 779.6 100.0 158.4 The plan assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments or property occupied by the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 144 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Movements in the present value of the dened benefit obligation are as follows: Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2012 m m m m Dened benefit obligation at beginning of year 1,074.4 201.0 6.7 1,282.1 Service cost 0.4 2.9 3.3 Curtailment gain 31.5 31.5 Settlement gain 3.1 3.1 Interest cost 59.5 11.0 0.4 70.9 Change of assumptions 46.7 1.5 0.3 45.5 Employee contributions 0.1 1.7 1.8 benefit payments 30.0 8.9 38.9 Difference on exchange 0.3 0.3 Dened benefit obligation at end of year 1,116.5 206.2 7.1 1,329.8 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2011 m m m m Dened benefit obligation at beginning of year 1,080.2 234.6 7.9 1,322.7 Service cost 1.8 3.9 5.7 Interest cost 58.9 12.7 0.4 72.0 Change of assumptions 43.9 43.0 1.3 88.2 Employee contributions 0.1 1.8 1.9 benefit payments 22.7 9.0 0.2 31.9 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.1 Dened benefit obligation at end of year 1,074.4 201.0 6.7 1,282.1 Movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2012 m m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 779.6 158.4 6.3 944.3 Expected return on plan assets 48.9 10.6 0.5 60.0 Settlement gain 1.3 1.3 Employer contributions 26.4 2.5 0.3 29.2 Employee contributions 0.1 1.7 1.8 Benets paid 30.0 8.9 38.9 Actuarial gain loss 88.2 4.1 0.3 83.8 Difference on exchange 0.2 0.2 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 911.9 160.2 6.6 1,078.7 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2011 m m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 725.9 150.7 6.1 882.7 Expected return on plan assets 46.5 10.4 0.4 57.3 Employer contributions 33.7 2.9 0.2 36.8 Employee contributions 0.1 1.8 1.9 Benets paid 22.7 9.0 0.2 31.9 Actuarial loss gain 3.9 1.6 0.2 2.5 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 779.6 158.4 6.3 944.3 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 145 Movements in the retirement benefit liabilities are as follows: Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2012 m m m m Retirement benefit liabilities at beginning of year 294.8 42.6 0.4 337.8 Service cost 0.4 2.9 3.3 Net finance cost 10.6 0.4 0.1 10.9 Curtailment gain 31.5 31.5 Settlement gain 1.8 1.8 Contributions 26.4 2.5 0.3 29.2 Actuarial gain loss 41.5 2.6 0.6 38.3 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.1 Retirement benefit liabilities at end of year 204.6 46.0 0.5 251.1 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2011 m m m m Retirement benefit liabilities at beginning of year 354.3 83.9 1.8 440.0 Service cost 1.8 3.9 5.7 Net finance cost 12.4 2.3 14.7 Contributions 33.7 2.9 0.2 36.8 Actuarial gain 40.0 44.6 1.1 85.7 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.1 Retirement benefit liabilities at end of year 294.8 42.6 0.4 337.8 Cumulative net actuarial losses recognised in equity are as follows: Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2012 m m m m At beginning of year 208.7 15.9 1.5 226.1 Net actuarial gain loss recognised in the year 41.5 2.6 0.6 38.3 At end of year 167.2 18.5 2.1 187.8 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2011 m m m m At beginning of year 248.7 60.5 2.6 311.8 Net actuarial gain recognised in the year 40.0 44.6 1.1 85.7 At end of year 208.7 15.9 1.5 226.1 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 146 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The return on plan assets is as follows: Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2012 m m m m Expected return on plan assets 48.9 10.6 0.5 60.0 Experience gain loss on plan assets 88.2 4.1 0.3 83.8 Actual return on plan assets 137.1 6.5 0.2 143.8 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2011 m m m m Expected return on plan assets 46.5 10.4 0.4 57.3 Experience loss gain on plan assets 3.9 1.6 0.2 2.5 Actual return on plan assets 42.6 12.0 0.2 54.8 History of experience gains and losses: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Total Total Total Total Total Experience gain loss on scheme assets 83.8m 2.5 m 125.2m 194.2 m 88.1 m Percentage of scheme assets 7.8 % 0.3 % 14.2% 27.5 % 10.9 % Experience gain loss on scheme liabilities 4.4m 43.8m 0.3 m 9.1m 20.7m Percentage of dened benefit obligation 0.3 % 3.4 % 0.9 % 2.0 % Dened benefit obligation 1,329.8 m 1,282.1 m 1,322.7 m 1,003.4 m 1,021.9 m Fair value of plan assets 1,078.7m 944.3m 882.7m 705.0m 808.8m Retirement benefit liability 251.1 m 337.8 m 440.0 m 298.4 m 213.1 m The Group expects employer contributions to be paid during the financial year to 31 March 2012 to be circa 29.3m, of which 26.0m is in relation to the funding of the actuarial deficit, and employee contributions paid to be circa 1.6m.
Expected benefit payments made directly by the Group to pensioners in the financial year to 31 March 2013 are nil.
The approximate effect on the liabilities from changes in the main assumptions used to value the liabilities are as follows: Change in assumption Effect on plan liabilities Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme Discount rate increase decrease 0.5% decrease increase 10.0% decrease increase 8.0% Ination increase decrease 0.5%increase decrease 7.0% increase decrease 8.0% Real rate of increase in salaries increase decrease 0.5% increase decrease 2.0% increase decrease 2.0% Longevity increase 1 year increase 3.0% increase 2.0% The effect of the change in ination on liabilities assumes a corresponding increase in salary increases and ination-related pension increases.
b Other post-employment benefit liabilities The Group operates unfunded schemes within certain of its non-UK businesses, including Gratuity schemes, Key Employee Supplemental Option Plans KESOP and post-retirement medical benefit schemes.
Members of the Gratuity schemes are entitled to receive a cash gratuity on leaving the business which is dependent on their length of employment and final salary.
Valuation of the gratuity obligation is carried out in line with the principles of IAS 19, Employee benets.
The Group operates a KESOP plan providing some key ofcers and employees in its North American business the business with postretirement benets, known as a Supplemental Income Program SIP.
The SIP is an unfunded plan that provides participants with retirement income for a specified period of between 5 and 15 years upon retirement, death or disability.
The plan xes a minimum level for retirement benets to be paid to participants based on the participants position in the business, their age and service at retirement.
Additionally, certain executive agreements have been amended to provide post-retirement medical benets to those employees and their spouses, at a level substantially similar to those medical and hospitalisation benets paid and provided to senior executives currently employed by the business.
The insurance benets will be provided without any further or additional services from the employee to the business and they will be paid for and provided for as long as the employee and their spouse shall live.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 147 Group 2012 2011 m m Other post-employment obligation at beginning of year 12.5 10.5 Acquired post-employment obligation from business combination 3.2 Service cost and other comprehensive income 3.5 2.3 Interest cost 0.6 0.5 benefit payments 2.5 3.2 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.8 Other post-employment obligation at end of year 14.2 12.5 The main assumptions used for the IAS 19 valuation of other post-employment benets are listed in the table below.
2012 2011 Gratuity scheme Discount rate 5.00% 5.00% Salary ination 3.00% 3.00% Average remaining service period 2 years 2 years KESOP scheme Discount rate 2.05% 2.95% Medical plan Discount rate 4.60% 5.25% Healthcare cost trend rate for next year 8.00% 8.00% Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline 5.00% 5.00% Year that rate reaches ultimate trend rate 2018 2017 32.
Other non-current liabilities Group 2012 2011 m m Deferred PFI PPP bid costs recovered, deferred consideration and development fees: Maturing between one and two years 0.1 0.3 Maturing between two and five years 0.2 0.7 Maturing after more than five years 1.3 4.3 1.6 5.3 3.0m of success fees have been redisclosed as current following the agreement to sell the Groups minority interest in RMPA Holdings Limited, resulting in the acceleration of the release during the next financial year.
Ordinary shares Group and Company 2012 2011 No.
On 9 September 2010, the Company passed a resolution adopting new Articles of Association of the Company.
From 1 October 2009, the Companies Act 2006 abolished the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and hence the Companys new Articles of Association do not include an authorised share capital.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 148 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued At the 2011 annual general meeting AGM, shareholder authority was obtained for the Company to purchase up to a maximum of 10,011,000 of its own ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company on 15 June 2011 for a period ending on the earlier of the next AGM or 8 December 2012, provided that certain conditions relating to the purchase price are met.
The Notice of Meeting for the AGM to be held at 1100 hours on Wednesday 1 August 2012 proposes that shareholders approve a resolution updating and renewing this authority.
Shares in the Company may also be purchased by Atkins Employee benefit Trusts.
As at the date of this report, there were 4,341,000 ordinary shares of 0.5 pence each nominal value 21,705 held as treasury shares.
No shares were purchased during the year ended 31 March 2012 2011: nil.
The 4,341,000 treasury shares, which represent approximately 4.2% of the total 2011: 4.2% of the called-up share capital as at the date of this report, have not been cancelled and represent a deduction from shareholders equity.
Share-based payments Long Term Incentive Plans Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP September 2006 onwards A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to make awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
There are different performance targets for different categories of management.
Awards made to executive directors and senior employees have 50% of the award subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts at the start of the performance period.
Full vesting of this portion of the award will take place if the Company is ranked in the upper quartile and 30% vesting will be achieved with a median ranking, with pro rata vesting for intermediate performance.
No vesting will occur for a ranking below median.
The remaining 50% of the award made to executive directors and senior employees is subject to the Companys real growth in underlying normalised earnings per share EPS over the performance period.
For the 2006 and subsequent awards, the growth target required the increase to be more than 10% per annum above the UK Retail Price Index RPI in the three-year performance period to allow full vesting: if the increase is less than 4% per annum above the UK RPI, then there will be no vesting.
A sliding scale operates between 4% and 10% above the UK RPI.
Awards made to other participants are subject solely to the EPS condition.
As a general rule, awards made to participants who leave employment prior to vesting will be forfeited.
In the event a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason, they receive a pro-rated entitlement.
Subject to vesting, participants are entitled to receive the benefit of dividends declared following award, without interest.
Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP September 2003 to August 2006 A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to make awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
The performance condition was TSR with an EPS growth underpin measured over three financial years starting with the financial year beginning immediately after the award was granted.
Full vesting of any award took place for a TSR performance where the Company ranked in the top 20% in a group of up to 16 comparator companies, 30% vesting for median ranking and no award if TSR fell below the median.
The EPS underpin was the UK RPI plus 2% per annum.
As a general rule, awards made to participants who left employment prior to vesting were forfeited.
In the event a participant left as a result of a qualifying reason, they received a pro-rated entitlement.
All awards have now vested.
Deferred Share Plans Atkins Deferred Bonus Plan DBP A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to make awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
There is no performance condition but awards are restricted for at least three years from the date of award.
In the event a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason, they will receive their award in full.
Atkins Deferred Share Plan DSP A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to make awards to employees that are settled in equity or in cash.
There is no performance condition but awards are restricted for a set period, xed by the Remuneration Committee at grant, from the date of the award.
Awards may be granted to an executive director under the plan but only in connection with the deferral of an annual bonus entitlement.
Awards may also be granted under the plan to employees that do not form part of their annual bonus.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 149 The Groups share-based payments charge for the year of 7.4m 2011: 6.5m has been included in Administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The effect of the share-based payment transactions on the Groups results and financial position is as follows: Group 2012 2011 m m Total expense recognised for equity-settled share-based payment transactions 6.4 5.7 Total expense recognised for cash-settled share-based payment transactions 1.0 0.8 7.4 6.5 Closing balance of liability for cash-settled share-based payment transactions 2.1 2.0 As at 31 March 2012 the following awards were outstanding: LTIPs DBP DSP Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise transfer transfer No.
A summary of awards outstanding as at 31 March 2012 is as follows: Weighted average Awards Awards remaining outstanding exercisable Exercise Scheme Maximum contractual at 31 March at 31 March Scheme Award date price maturity term life 2012 2012 LTIPs LTIP September 2006 11 09 2006 TSR EPS onwards to 20 06 2011 0.0p 3 years 3 to 10 years 7.55 years 612,371 17,782 LTIP September 2006 11 09 2006 EPS onwards to 30 11 2007 0.0p 3 years 3 to 10 years 5.08 years 120,146 120,146 LTIP September 2003 17 09 2003 to August 2006 to 25 06 2004 0.0p 3 to 4 years 10 years 2.00 years 13,050 13,050 DSPs DBP 26 08 2002 to 19 06 2009 0.0p 3 years 10 years 4.60 years 164,633 127,729 DSP 29 06 2007 to 22 11 2011 0.0p 1 to 3 years 2 to 10 years 7.06 years 2,822,183 509,976 On 20 June 2011 the Company issued awards over 202,648 shares to employees under the LTIP and 788,951 shares to employees under the DSP.
On 22 November 2011 the Company issued awards over 86,308 shares to employees under the DSP.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 150 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued At 31 March 2012 the Companys Employee benefit Trusts held a beneficial interest in 2,589,261 shares 2011: 2,105,603 shares at a nominal value of 0.0m 2011: 0.0m and market value of 19.0m 2011: 14.8m.
For the purposes of valuing LTIP awards with market performance conditions, the Monte Carlo model has been used to arrive at the share-based payments charge.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows: LTIP LTIP 2012 2011 Exercise price nil nil Risk-free interest rate n a 1% Discount in respect of dividend yield 0% 0% Volatility of share price 38.0% 39.0% Share price at grant date: 21 06 2010 698.5p 698.5p 20 06 2011 760.0p Expected term 3 years from 3 years from grant date grant date Volatility was determined based on the movement in share price over a period prior to the grant date equal in length to the period over which the TSR condition applies, which equates to a three-year share price history 2011: three-year share price history.
The fair value of share plans involving market performance conditions takes into account market information.
In accordance with the rules of the plan, the Monte Carlo model simulates TSR for the Company and a comparator group.
In 2012 and 2011 the comparator group consisted of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
The model takes into account historic dividends and share price volatilities for the Company and the comparator group to produce a predicted distribution of relative share performance.
Awards that do not contain market performance conditions are valued at market value at the date of award and discounted in the event that the award does not benefit from dividends during the vesting period.
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was 723.04 pence 2011: 685.14 pence.
Cash generated from continuing operations Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m profit for the year 106.8 72.6 42.7 32.1 Adjustments for: Income tax note 8 28.7 18.4 Finance income note 7 4.1 3.9 1.9 1.9 Finance cost note 7 14.9 18.0 2.5 1.7 Share of post-tax profit loss from joint ventures note 4 1.9 1.9 Other non-cash costs 2.9 5.1 Depreciation charges 17.1 15.9 profit on disposal of subsidiary undertaking note 9 7.2 9.2 Amortisation charges 9.5 8.3 Release of deferred income 0.2 0.3 Share-based payment charge note 34 6.4 5.7 Pensions settlement and curtailment gain note 31 33.3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.2 Dividends received 2.2 3.9 Movement in provisions note 30 5.7 3.8 Movement in inventories note 24 0.3 0.1 Movement in trade and other receivables note 25 19.5 22.6 2.2 3.6 Movement in payables note 29 11.3 14.7 5.4 4.1 Movement in long term payables 2.9 0.5 Movement in post-employment benets note 31 26.0 31.9 Cash generated from continuing operations 68.6 68.5 35.1 27.5 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 151 36.
Analysis of net funds At 31 March Cash Other non Exchange At 31 March 2011 ow cash changes movement 2012 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 121.5 45.6 0.1 167.0 Loan notes receivable 20.1 4.9 0.1 25.1 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 34.7 0.3 35.0 Available-for-sale financial assets 6.1 6.1 Borrowings due within one year 46.3 60.3 0.3 2.9 104.0 Finance leases 6.7 2.1 2.0 6.6 Net funds 123.3 7.4 3.9 2.8 122.6 37.
Contingent liabilities The Group has given indemnities in respect of performance and contractual-related bonds, as well as letters of credit issued on its behalf.
The amount outstanding at 31 March 2012 includes 4.0m in respect of Connect Plus M25 letters of credit and 6.6m letters of credit issued as a result of the PBSJ acquisition.
During the prior year the Group acquired The PBSJ Corporation.
Prior to the acquisition, the Audit Committee of the Board of directors of PBSJ undertook an internal investigation to determine whether any laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA, had been violated in connection with certain projects undertaken by PBS&J International, Inc. one of PBSJs subsidiary undertakings.
The investigation suggested that FCPA violations may have occurred but did not extend beyond the International operation and that none of PBSJs executive management were involved in criminal conduct.
PBSJ voluntarily disclosed this matter to the Department of Justice and to the SEC and is cooperating fully with their review.
The FCPA provides for penalties, criminal and civil sanctions and other remedies.
Neither at the date of acquisition nor at subsequent year ends has management been able to estimate the potential penalties that may be imposed and therefore no provision has been made.
It is not considered possible to determine an accurate estimate of the fines and penalties imposed as they are not formula driven or in any way the result of a predened calculation.
The Group does not have an estimate of when this will be resolved but it is considered unlikely to be within the next financial year.
Group companies are from time to time involved in claims and litigation.
The Group carries significant Professional Indemnity insurance cover for such claims.
Operating lease arrangements 2012 2011 Vehicles, Vehicles, plant and plant and Property equipment Property equipment Group m m m m Future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 28.4 7.5 22.5 7.6 Later than one year but less than five years 83.9 12.0 64.5 13.8 After five years 90.3 93.2 0.3 202.6 19.5 180.2 21.7 The Company had no operating lease commitments as at 31 March 2012 2011: none.
2012 2011 Vehicles, Vehicles, plant and plant and Property equipment Property equipment Group m m m m Amounts receivable under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 0.5 0.4 0.4 Later than one year but less than five years 2.5 0.5 1.7 After five years 4.9 2.8 7.9 0.9 4.9 The Company had no operating lease receivables as at 31 March 2012 2011: none.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 152 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 39.
Capital and other financial commitments Group 2012 2011 m m Capital expenditure contracted for but not incurred property, plant and equipment 1.4 4.3 The Group is committed to make payments for equity and debt into Special Purpose Companies under Private Finance Initiative PFI contracts of 1.8m 2011: 6.7m, note 23.
Related party transactions Details of the directors shareholdings, share options and remuneration are given in the Remuneration report on page 73, which forms part of these Financial Statements.
Transactions with the retirement benefit schemes are shown in note 31.
Details of the Companys principal subsidiaries are shown in note 41 and its principal joint ventures in note 42. a Group sales and purchases of goods and services to from joint ventures Group 2012 2011 m m Sales of goods and services to joint ventures 40.5 34.2 Purchases of goods and services from joint ventures b Group year end balances arising from sales purchases of goods and services to from joint ventures and loans provided to joint ventures Group 2012 2011 m m Receivables from joint ventures note 25 5.2 8.3 Receivables from joint ventures are shown net of contract-related provisions of nil 2011: nil.
Payables to joint ventures c Group year end balances arising from loans provided to other related parties Group 2012 2011 m m Receivables from related parties note 23 18.2 13.3 d Company sales purchases of goods and services to from subsidiaries The Company did not sell any goods or services to subsidiaries during the year 2011: nil.
The Company did not purchase any goods or services from its subsidiaries during the year 2011: nil.
e Company year end balances with subsidiaries Company 2012 2011 m m Receivables from subsidiaries note 25 159.9 89.3 Payables to subsidiaries note 29 84.5 69.9 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 153 Provision of goods and services to and purchases of goods and services from related parties were made at the rates charged to external customers.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No provision has been made for doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties and nil charged to income and expense 2011: nil.
Receivables from subsidiaries are shown net of impairment of 9.5m 2011: 42.1m.
f Key management compensation Key management comprises the executive and non-executive directors, and certain senior managers who are members of the Senior Leadership Team SLT.
Group 2012 2011 m m Salaries and other short term employment benets 5.2 5.1 Post-employment benets 0.2 0.2 Share-based payments 1.9 1.6 7.3 6.9 The deferred share award element of any bonus paid to key management is not included in the Salaries and other short term employment benets number as it is included in the share-based payment charge in subsequent years.
Subsidiary undertakings The following companies were the principal subsidiary undertakings as at 31 March 2012: Country of Class and registration percentage incorporation of shares held Nature of business Atkins Beta Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Investment holding company Atkins China Limited Hong Kong 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Atkins Danmark A S Denmark 100% ordinary Consulting engineers Atkins Gamma Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Investment holding company 1 Atkins Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Consulting engineers Atkins Investments UK Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Investment holding company 1 Atkins North America, Inc USA 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Faithful Gould, Inc USA 100% ordinary Project and programme management consultants 1 Faithful Gould Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Quantity surveyors and cost estimators 1 Peter R Brown Construction, Inc USA 100% ordinary Construction management services The Atkins North America Holdings Corporation USA 100% ordinary Investment holding company 1 WS Atkins & Partners Overseas Gibraltar 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 WS Atkins, Inc USA 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 WS Atkins Insurance Guernsey Limited Guernsey 100% ordinary Insurance 1 WS Atkins International Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1.
Owned by a subsidiary undertaking other than WS Atkins plc.
The percentage of the issued share capital held by the Group is equivalent to the percentage of voting rights held.
The Group holds the whole of all classes of issued share capital.
All the above operate in the country of registration, except for WS Atkins & Partners Overseas, which operates in the Middle East.
A full list of subsidiary companies will be led at Companies House with the Companys Annual Return.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 154 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 42.
Joint ventures The following represents the principal joint ventures in which the Group participated during the year: Proportion Date of last of shares audited interest financial External 3 Name Nature of business held statements auditors 1 2 RMPA Holdings Limited Holding company for companies involved 14.0% 31 Mar 2011 KPMG in the design, nancing and construction Audit plc of the MoD garrison facility at Colchester.
Connect Plus Services unincorporated Joint venture undertaking operation and 32.5% N A N A maintenance work on the M25.
1 Engage SNC A French General Partnership providing 25.0% 31 Dec 2011 KPMG S. A. architect engineering services for the ITER programme, a nuclear fusion reactor in France.
1 Nuclear Atkins Assystem Alliance SNC A French General Partnership providing 50.0% 31 Dec 2011 KPMG S. A. consultancy and engineering services to the international nuclear new-build market.
All joint ventures operate in the United Kingdom unless otherwise stated.
On 4 May 2012 the Group completed the sale of its minority interest in RMPA Holdings Limited, note 43.
Proportion of shares held where incorporated is in respect of ordinary share capital.
There are no special rights or constraints on the shares.
There are no restrictions on distributions from any of these joint ventures.
Events after the balance sheet date Sale of minority interest in RMPA Holdings Limited On 4 May 2012 the Group completed the sale of its minority interest in RMPA Holdings Limited which delivered the Colchester Garrison PFI project.
The investment has been disclosed as an asset held for sale in these Financial Statements and further information regarding the transaction is provided in note 10.
US private placement On 14 May 2012 the Group announced the successful execution of its debut issue in the US private placement market.
Proceeds of $75m from 4.38% notes with a seven year term will be used to repay drawn funds under the Groups existing banking facility, which is detailed in note 28, and for general corporate purposes.
The issue offers increased diversity and an extended maturity prole for the Groups debt.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012
