158 Investor Information Investor Information For more investor information visit: www.
com investors American Depositary Receipts ADRs International payment service WS Atkins plc The Company has a Level 1 ADR for dividends Registered in England programme.
This enables US investors Capita Registrars offers shareholders Company no.
1885586 to purchase the Companys American a service to convert sterling dividends Depositary Shares ADSs.
Each ADS into certain local currencies.
This service Company secretary represents 1 ordinary share.
provides faster access to funds and and registered ofce will generally cost less than the fees Richard Webster JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. acts charged by your local bank.
For further WS Atkins plc as an ADR depositary bank.
information, please contact the Woodcote Grove registrar address above.
Telephone: Ashley Road For the issuance and management of 44 0 20 8639 3405 if calling Epsom ADRs, and any general ADR questions, from outside the UK lines are open Surrey KT18 5BW please contact: 0900 to 1730 Monday to Friday England or 0871 664 0385 if calling from JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. the UK calls cost 10p per minute Financial Calendar P. O.
Box 64504 plus network extras, lines are open St. Paul 0900 to 1730 Monday to Friday Ex-dividend date 25 July 2012 Minnesota 55164-0504 or email: IPS@capitaregistrars.
com Record date 27 July 2012 USA or visit the registrars website: Last day to elect for DRIP 1 August 2012 www.
Annual General Meeting 1 August 2012 Investor helpline: 800-990-1135 Final dividend if calling from the USA toll free Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP payment date 31 August 2012 or 1-651-453-2128 if calling from The Company offers a dividend outside the USA.
com reinvestment plan to shareholders as Shareholder Services a cost-efficient way of increasing their Investor relations website shareholding in the Company.
Should Registrar Many commonly asked shareholders you wish to participate in the DRIP Enquiries and notications concerning questions are addressed in the investor please contact the registrar on the dividends, share certicates, transfers and relations section of our website: telephone number given above to request address changes should be sent to the www.
a mandate form and an explanatory registrar, whose address is: booklet.
Your completed mandate form E-communications must be received by the registrar no later Capita Registrars Shareholders can choose to receive all than 1 August 2012 if you wish your final The Registry Company communications electronically.
dividend for the year to be reinvested 34 Beckenham Road This environmentally friendly way of to buy additional shares.
Beckenham receiving information has a number Kent of advantages including speedier Amalgamation of accounts BR3 4TU delivery of documents and the ability Shareholders who receive duplicate sets to access reports and results on the of Company mailings owing to multiple Telephone: 0871 664 0300 if calling internet wherever you are.
To register accounts in their name should contact from the UK calls cost 10p per minute please visit our share portal at the registrar to have their accounts including VAT plus any additional network www.
charges, lines are open 0830 to 1730 Monday to Friday or 44 0 20 8639 3399 if calling from outside the UK lines are open 0830 to 1730 Monday to Friday.
Other shareholder enquiries should be addressed to Atkins company secretary at the registered ofce.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Investor Information 159 Unsolicited mail s know when dividends are paid and If you are offered unsolicited investment The Company is obliged by law to make consider having your dividend paid advice, discounted shares, a premium its share register available to third parties directly into your bank account.
This will price for shares you own, or free company who may then use it for a mailing list.
If reduce the risk of the cheque being or research reports, you should take these you are a UK shareholder and you wish intercepted or lost in the post.
If you steps before handing over any money: to limit receipt of unsolicited mail you change your bank account, inform the 1. get the name of the person and may do so by registering with the Mailing registrar of the details of your new organisation contacting you Preference Service MPS.
You can do this by post 2. check the FSA Register at be made online at www.
uk or online using our share portal at www.
uk fsaregister to ensure or via telephone on 0845 703 4599. www.
Respond they are authorised to any letters the registrar sends you 3. use the details on the FSA Register Giving your shares to charity about this to contact the rm If you only have a small number of shares s if you receive a letter from the registrar 4. call the FSA Consumer Helpline on whose value makes it uneconomic to sell regarding a change of address or 0845 606 1234 if there are no contact them, you may wish to consider donating a dividend instruction but have not details on the FSA Register or you are them to charity though ShareGift, an recently moved or requested a change told they are out of date independent share donation scheme.
to how you receive your dividends 5. search our list of unauthorised The relevant share transfer form can be please contact them immediately rms and individuals to avoid doing obtained from the registrar.
ShareGift as you may have been a victim business with is administered by The Orr Mackintosh of identity theft 6. remember: if it sounds too good Foundation, registered charity number to be true, it probably is.
s if you are buying or selling shares only 1052686.
Further information may be deal with brokers registered in your obtained on 44 0 20 7930 3737 If you use an unauthorised rm to buy country of residence or the UK.
or sell shares or other investments, you will not have access to the Financial Warning to shareholders Identity theft Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Share fraud includes scams where Identity theft is on the increase.
Criminals Compensation Scheme FSCS if things investors are called out of the blue and may steal your personal information, go wrong.
offered shares that often turn out to be putting your Atkins shareholding at risk.
worthless or non-existent, or an inated If you are approached about a share scam price for shares they own.
These calls Tips for protecting your Atkins shares: you should tell the FSA using the share come from fraudsters operating in boiler s ensure all your certicates are kept fraud reporting form at www.
uk rooms that are mostly based abroad.
in a safe place or hold your shares scams, where you can nd out about the electronically in CREST via a nominee latest investment scams.
You can also While high profits are promised, those call the FSA Consumer Helpline on s keep all correspondence from the who buy or sell shares in this way usually 0845 606 1234. lose their money.
registrar that shows your shareholder reference number in a safe place, If you have already paid money to share or destroy your correspondence The Financial Services Authority FSA fraudsters you should contact Action by shredding it has found most share fraud victims are Fraud on 0300 123 2040. experienced investors who lose an s if you change address inform the average of 20,000, with around registrar in writing or via our share 200m lost in the UK each year.
com WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Investor Information 16 160 0 Investor Information You can help us to reduce our environmental impact by opting to receive shareholder communications online at www.
com investors To help you nd the information youre looking for, the key features of our investor relations website are highlighted below.
Reports Corporate responsibility Our reports can be accessed Find out more about our and or downloaded from here.
Corporate Responsibility strategy and performance by visiting Investor presentations this section of our website.
Links to results presentations, videos, press releases Alerts and webcasts.
Receive automated announcements and news by Shareholders queries signing up to our alerting service.
We provide a number of services to help our shareholders Latest financial news manage their holdings, keep Access our latest financial up to date with our progress press releases here.
Share price Charts showing share price activity.
Register for ecomms You can help us to reduce our environmental impact by opting to receive electronic versions of shareholder communications ecomms.
We will donate 1 to RedR Register for Engineers for Disaster Relief for each shareholder who chooses this method of communication.
Investor information can also be viewed on your mobile phone at www.
mobi Financial news Share price and chart Investor relations team Financial calendar W WS S A At tk ki in ns s p pl lc c An Ann nu ua all R Re epo por rt t 2 20 01 12 2 This Annual Report is printed on Revive Pure White Uncoated, a 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer collected waste and manufactured to the certied environmental management system ISO 14001.
It is TCF Totally Chlorine Free, totally recyclable and has biodegradable NAPM recycled certication.
TT-COC-002228 The Atkins logo, Carbon Critical Design and the strapline Plan Design Enable are trademarks of Atkins Limited, a WS Atkins plc company.
WS Atkins plc except where stated otherwise.
