Notes to the financial statements 1.
Corporate information Taxation The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex in accordance with a directors resolution on 10 April 2013.
The tax regulations, changes in tax laws, and the amount and timing of ultimate parent entity of the Group, Xstrata plc, is a publicly traded future taxable income.
Given the wide range of international business limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing in Switzerland.
Its ordinary shares are traded on the London and contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual Swiss stock exchanges.
results and the assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income The principal activities of the Group are described in note 9. and expense already recorded.
The Group establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for possible consequences of audits 2.
Statement of compliance by the tax authorities of the respective counties in which it operates.
The consolidated financial statements of Xstrata plc and its The amount of such provisions is based on various factors, such as subsidiaries the Group are prepared in accordance with experience of previous tax audits and differing interpretations of tax International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the regulations by the taxable entity and the responsible tax authority.
International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Such differences of interpretation may arise on a wide variety of IFRIC, as adopted by the European Union, effective for the Groups issues depending on the conditions prevailing in the respective reporting for the year ended 31 December 2012. domicile of the Group companies.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable 3.
Basis of preparation that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, utilised.
Significant management judgement is required to determine which is the parents functional and presentation currency, and all the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based values are rounded to the nearest million except where upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits together otherwise indicated.
with future tax planning strategies.
The accounting policies in note 6 have been applied in preparing Note 11 sets out the current and deferred tax position and the the consolidated financial statements.
income tax charge for the year.
Changes in accounting policies, new standards and The preparation of these financial statements requires management interpretations not applied to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the Changes in accounting policies reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the the disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the date of the financial consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed statements.
Actual outcomes could differ from these estimates.
in the preparation of the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011, except for following interpretation The below are the most critical judgements, estimates which did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial and assumptions: position or performance of the Group: Estimated recoverable reserves and resources IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Transfers of Financial Estimated recoverable reserves and resources are used to determine Assets Amendment the depreciation of mine production assets, in accounting for deferred stripping costs and in performing impairment testing.
New standards and interpretations not applied Estimates are prepared by appropriately qualified persons, but will The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and be impacted by forecast commodity prices, exchange rates, interpretations with effective dates that are subsequent to 1 January production costs and recoveries amongst other factors.
Consequently, these pronouncements will impact the Groups assumptions will impact the carrying value of assets and depreciation financial statements in future periods.
and impairment charges recorded in the income statement.
Effective date Environmental rehabilitation costs IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and 1 January 2015 The provisions for rehabilitation costs are based on estimated future Measurement costs using information available at the balance sheet date.
To the extent the actual costs differ from these estimates, adjustments will IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014 be recorded and the income statement may be impacted refer to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014 note 31.
Impairment testing IFRS 12 Disclosure of Involvement with Other 1 January 2014 Note 15 outlines the significant judgements and assumptions made Entities in performing impairment testing of non-current assets.
Changes in IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2014 these assumptions may alter the results of impairment testing, as revised in 2011 impairment charges recorded in the income statement and the IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 resulting carrying values of assets.
1 January 2013 IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Share-based payments, defined benefit pension plans and postPhase of a Surface Mine retirement medical plans 1 January 2013 IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised Note 34 outlines the significant assumptions made when accounting for share-based payments, defined benefit pension plans and postThe Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and retirement medical plans.
Changes to these assumptions may alter interpretations on their effective dates will have a material impact the resulting accounting and ultimately the amount charged to the on the Groups presentation of financial statements in the period of income statement.
The Group will quantify the effect of IFRS 9 to 13, IAS 19 R and IFRIC 20 as part of initial application of the new standards once the full extent of the impact can be determined.
Principal accounting policies When the Group contributes or sells assets to a joint venture, Basis of consolidation any gain or loss from the transaction is recognised based on the The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of substance of the transaction.
When the Group has transferred the Xstrata plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group.
All interrisk and rewards of ownership to the joint venture, the Group only entity balances and transactions, including unrealised profits and recognises the portion of the gain or loss attributable to the other losses arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated venturers, unless the loss is reflective of an impairment, in which in full.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated case the loss is recognised in full.
When the Group purchases assets for the periods from or to the date on which control passes.
Control from the joint venture, it does not recognise its share of the profits is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the financial of the joint venture from the transaction until it resells the assets to and operating policy of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its an independent party.
Losses are accounted for in a similar manner activities.
This occurs when the Group has more than 50% voting unless they represent an impairment loss, in which case they are power through ownership or agreements, except where nonrecognised immediately.
controlling rights are such that a non-controlling shareholder is able Joint ventures are accounted for in the manner outlined above, to prevent the Group from exercising control.
In addition, control until the date on which the Group ceases to have joint control over may exist without having more than 50% voting power through the joint venture.
ownership or agreements, or in the circumstances of enhanced noncontrolling rights, as a consequence of fide facto control.
fide facto Investments in associates control is control without the legal right to exercise unilateral control, Entities in which the Group has significant influence and which and involves decision-making ability that is not shared with others are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are associates, and are and the ability to give directions with respect to the operating and accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
financial policies of the entity concerned.
Where there is a loss of Under the equity method of accounting, the investment in the control of a subsidiary, the financial statements include the results for associate is recognised on the balance sheet on the date of the part of the reporting period during which Xstrata plc has control.
acquisition at the fair value of the purchase consideration where this Subsidiaries use the same reporting period and same accounting is higher than the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired, policies as Xstrata plc.
or, if the purchase consideration is less than the fair value of the Interests in joint ventures identifiable net assets acquired, at the fair value of the identifiable A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more net assets acquired.
In this way, goodwill is included within the parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
associate balance when the fair value of the investment is less than The financial statements of the joint ventures are generally prepared the consideration paid.
The carrying amount is adjusted by the for the same reporting period as the Company, using consistent Groups share of the post-acquisition profit or loss, depreciation, accounting policies.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any amortisation or impairment arising from fair value adjustments made dissimilar accounting policies that may exist in the underlying records at date of acquisition and certain inter-entity transactions together of the joint venture.
with a reduction for any dividends received or receivable from the associate.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in Jointly controlled operations the equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of such A jointly controlled operation involves the use of assets and changes in equity.
other resources of the Group and other venturers rather than the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other entity.
The financial statements of the associates are generally prepared for the same reporting period as the Group, using consistent The Group accounts for the assets it controls and the liabilities it accounting policies.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any incurs, the expenses it incurs and the share of income that it earns dissimilar accounting policies that may exist in the underlying from the sale of goods or services by the joint venture.
Where an associate prepares its financial Jointly controlled assets statements using a different reporting period, an estimate of the A jointly controlled asset involves joint control and ownership by Groups share of the associates profit or loss is made based on the the Group and other venturers of assets contributed to or acquired most reliable information available.
Adjustments are made in the for the purpose of the joint venture, without the formation of a consolidated financial statements to eliminate the Groups share corporation, partnership or other entity.
of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates.
The Group accounts for its share of the jointly controlled assets, any liabilities it has incurred, its share of any liabilities jointly incurred with The Group discontinues its use of the equity method from the date other venturers, income from the sale or use of its share of the joint on which it ceases to have significant influence, and from that date ventures output, together with its share of the expenses incurred by accounts for the investment in accordance with IAS 39 with its the joint venture, and any expenses it incurs in relation to its interest initial cost being the carrying amount of the associate at that date, in the joint venture.
provided the investment does not then qualify as a subsidiary or joint venture.
Jointly controlled entities A jointly controlled entity involves the establishment of a corporation, The Groups income statement reflects the share of associates partnership or other legal entity in which the Group has an interest results after tax and the Groups statement of recognised income along with other venturers.
and expense includes any amounts recognised by associates outside of the income statement.
The Group recognises its interest in jointly controlled entities using the proportionate method of consolidation, whereby the Groups share of each of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the joint venture are combined with the similar items, line by line, in its consolidated financial statements.
com 73 Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Principal accounting policies continued On consolidation of foreign operations into US dollars, income Business combinations statement items are translated at weighted average rates of On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the acquisition method of exchange where this is a reasonable approximation of the exchange accounting is used, whereby the purchase consideration is allocated rate at the dates of the transactions.
Balance sheet items are to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities translated at closing exchange rates.
Exchange differences on the identifiable net assets on the basis of fair value at the date of re-translation of the investments in foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures acquisition.
Those mining rights, mineral reserves and resources and associates at closing rates, together with differences between that are able to be reliably valued are recognised in the assessment income statements translated at average and at closing rates, are of fair values on acquisition.
Other potential reserves, resources recorded in a separate component of equity.
Exchange differences and mineral rights, for which in the directors opinion values cannot relating to quasi-equity inter-company loan balances with the be reliably determined, are not recognised.
Acquisition costs foreign operations that form part of the net investment in the are expensed.
foreign operation are also recognised in this component of equity.
On disposal or partial disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular to the Groups share of the identifiable net assets, the difference foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
is treated as purchased goodwill, which is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually or where there is an indication of The following exchange rates to the US dollar US$ have impairment.
If the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the been applied: identifiable net assets exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference 31 Average 31 Average is immediately recognised in the income statement.
December 12 months December 12 months 2012 2012 2011 2011 Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that are not held by the Group and are Argentine pesos presented in equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately US$:ARS 4.9155 4.5503 4.3063 4.1282 from the parents shareholders equity.
Australian dollars AUD:US$ 1.0395 1.0358 1.0205 1.0331 If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition Canadian dollars date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the US$:CAD 0.9922 0.9996 1.0212 0.9892 acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Chilean pesos US$:CLP 478.71 486.31 519.50 483.83 Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will Colombian pesos be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent US$:COP 1,767 1,797 1,938 1,848 changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance Euros EUR:US$ 1.3193 1.2860 1.2960 1.3926 with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other Great Britain pounds comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified GBP:US$ 1.6247 1.5853 1.5550 1.6041 as equity, it will not be re-measured.
Peruvian nuevo sol US$:PEN 2.5525 2.6372 2.6904 2.7532 Subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
In instances where the contingent consideration does not fall within the scope South African rand of IAS 39, it is measured in accordance with the appropriate IFRS.
US$:ZAR 8.4575 8.2103 8.0796 7.2642 Swiss francs US$:CHF 0.9156 0.9377 0.9376 0.8866 Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases of interests in associates.
Any goodwill arising on such purchases is Revenue included within the carrying amount of the investment in the Revenue associated with the sale of commodities is recognised when associates, but not thereafter amortised.
Any excess of the Groups all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset sold are share of the net fair value of the associates identifiable assets, transferred to the customer, usually when insurance risk has passed liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of the investment to the customer and the commodity has been delivered to the is included in income in the period of the purchase.
At this point the Group retains neither continuing Foreign currencies managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with Financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are ownership nor effective control over the commodities and the costs maintained in their functional currencies and converted to US dollars incurred, or to be incurred, in respect of the sale can be reliably for consolidation of the Group results.
The functional currency of measured.
Revenue is recognised, at fair value of the consideration each entity is determined after consideration of the primary receivable, to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits economic environment of the entity.
will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Sales revenue is recognised at the fair value of consideration Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange received, which in most cases is invoiced amounts, with most sales rates ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities being priced free on board FOB, free on rail FOR or cost, denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at year-end insurance and freight CIF.
Revenues from the sale of by-products exchange rates.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income are also included in sales revenue.
Revenue excludes treatment and statement except for differences arising on rehabilitation provisions refining charges unless payment of these amounts can be enforced which are capitalised for operating mines.
Non-monetary assets by the Group at the time of the sale.
measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date of the initial transactions.
Where non-monetary assets are measured at fair value in a foreign currency, they are translated at the exchange rates when the fair value was determined.
Where the exchange difference relates to an item which has been recorded in equity, the related exchange difference is also recorded in equity.
com For some commodities the sales price is determined provisionally at Expenditure on major maintenance or repairs includes the cost of the date of sale, with the final price determined at a mutually agreed the replacement of parts of assets and overhaul costs.
Where an date, generally at a quoted market price at that time.
This contractual asset or part of an asset is replaced and it is probable that future feature has the character of a commodity derivative.
As a result, the economic benefits associated with the item will be available to the invoice price on these sales are marked-to-market at balance sheet Group, the expenditure is capitalised and the carrying amount of date based on the forward metal prices for the relevant quotational the item replaced derecognised.
Similarly, overhaul costs associated period.
This ensures that revenue is recorded at the fair value of with major maintenance are capitalised and depreciated over their consideration to be received.
All mark-to-market adjustments are useful lives where it is probable that future economic benefits will recorded in sales revenue.
be available and any remaining carrying amounts of the cost of previous overhauls are derecognised.
All other costs are expensed Interest income as incurred.
Interest income is recognised as earned on an accruals basis using the effective interest method in the income statement.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment is disposed of, it is derecognised and the difference between its carrying value and net Exceptional items sales proceeds is disclosed as a profit or loss on disposal in the Exceptional items represent significant items of income and expense income statement.
that, due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, are presented separately on the face of the Any items of property, plant or equipment that cease to have future income statement to give a better understanding to shareholders of economic benefits are derecognised with any gain or loss included the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate in the income statement in the financial year in which the item comparison with prior periods and to better assess trends in financial is derecognised.
Exceptional items include, but are not limited to, Exploration and evaluation expenditure Acquisition and disposal costs, accelerated share-based Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred compensation plan charges, Available-for-sale financial assets writeon the exploration and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and down, impairment charges and reversals, liability fair value resources and includes costs such as exploratory drilling and sample adjustments, profit or loss on establishment of a joint venure, profit testing and the costs of pre-feasibility studies.
Exploration and on sale of operations, restructuring and closure costs, loan issue costs evaluation expenditure for each area of interest, other than that written-off on facility refinancing and the related tax impacts of these acquired from the purchase of another mining company, is carried items.
forward as an asset provided that one of the following conditions Property, plant and equipment is met: On initial acquisition, land and buildings and plant and equipment such costs are expected to be recouped in full through are valued at cost, being the purchase price and the directly successful development and exploration of the area of interest attributable costs of acquisition or construction required to bring the or alternatively, by its sale: or asset to the location and condition necessary for the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
exploration and evaluation activities in the area of interest have not yet reached a stage that permits a reasonable assessment of In subsequent periods, buildings, plant and equipment are stated at the existence or otherwise of economically recoverable reserves, cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value, and active and significant operations in relation to the area are whilst land is stated at cost less any impairment in value and is not continuing, or planned for the future.
Purchased exploration and evaluation assets are recognised as Depreciation is provided so as to write off the costs, less estimated assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part residual values of buildings and plant and equipment based on of a business combination.
prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, on the following bases: An impairment review is performed, either individually or at the cashMine production assets are depreciated using a unit-of-production generating unit level, when there are indicators that the carrying method based on estimated economically recoverable reserves, amount of the assets may exceed their recoverable amounts.
To the which results in a depreciation charge proportional to the depletion extent that this occurs, the excess is fully provided against, in the of reserves.
Buildings and plant and equipment unrelated to financial year in which this is determined.
Exploration and evaluation production are depreciated using the straight-line method based on assets are reassessed on a regular basis and these costs are carried estimated useful lives.
forward provided that at least one of the conditions outlined above Where parts of an asset have different useful lives, depreciation is is met.
calculated on each separate part.
Each asset or parts estimated Expenditure is transferred to mine development assets or capital useful life has due regard to both its own physical life limitations and work in progress once the work completed to date supports the the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the future development of the property and such development receives mine property at which the item is located, and to possible future appropriate approvals.
Estimates of remaining useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
Changes in estimates are Mineral properties and mine development expenditure accounted for prospectively.
The cost of acquiring mineral reserves and mineral resources is capitalised on the balance sheet as incurred.
Capitalised costs The expected useful lives are as follows: development expenditure include costs associated with a start-up Buildings 15 40 years period where the asset is available for use but incapable of operating Plant and equipment 4 30 years at normal levels without a commissioning period.
The net carrying amounts of land, buildings and plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment either individually or at the cash-generating unit level when events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
To the extent that these values exceed their recoverable amounts, that excess is fully provided against in the financial year in which this is determined.
com 75 Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Principal accounting policies continued The costs of removal of the waste material during a mines Mineral reserves and capitalised mine development expenditure production phase are deferred where they give rise to future are, upon commencement of production, depreciated using a unit benefits.
The deferral of these costs, and subsequent charges of production method based on the estimated economically to the income statement, are determined with reference to the recoverable reserves to which they relate or are written off if the mines strip ratio.
The net carrying amounts of mineral reserves The mines strip ratio represents the ratio of the estimated total and resources and capitalised mine development expenditure at volume of waste, to the estimated total quantity of economically each mine property are reviewed for impairment either individually recoverable ore, over the life of the mine.
These costs are deferred or at the cash-generating unit level when events and changes where the actual stripping ratios are higher than the average life in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be of mine strip ratio.
The costs charged to the income statement are recoverable.
To the extent that these values exceed their recoverable based on application of the mines strip ratio to the quantity of amounts, that excess is fully provided against in the financial year in ore mined in the period.
Where the ore is expected to be evenly which this is determined.
distributed, waste removal is expensed as incurred.
Capital work in progress Biological assets Assets in the course of construction are capitalised in the capital Biological assets, being cattle, are carried at their fair value less work in progress account.
On completion, the cost of construction estimated selling costs.
Any changes in fair value less estimated is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant selling costs are included in the income statement in the period and equipment.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase Intangible assets price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working Purchased intangible assets are recorded at the cost of acquisition condition for its intended use.
including expenses incidental to the acquisition, less accumulated Costs associated with a start-up period are capitalised where the amortisation and any impairment in value.
asset is available for use but incapable of operating at normal levels Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are without a commissioning period.
capitalised separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
The net carrying from contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured amounts of capital work in progress at each mine property are reliably on initial recognition.
reviewed for impairment either individually or at the cash-generating Internally generated goodwill is not recognised.
unit level when events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
To the extent that Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, these values exceed their recoverable amounts, that excess is fully except goodwill and those intangible assets that the Directors regard provided against in the financial year in which this is determined.
as having indefinite useful lives, that are not amortised but are reviewed for impairment at least annually, and whenever events or Leasing and hire purchase commitments circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be The determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease recoverable.
Intangible assets are regarded as having an indefinite is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, life when, based on an analysis of all the relevant factors, there is including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected on the use of a specific asset or assets or whether the arrangement to generate net cash flows.
Such analyses are performed annually.
conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment after inception is Estimated useful lives are determined as the period over which only made in specific circumstances.
the Group expects to use the asset or the number of production or Assets held under finance leases, where substantially all the risks and similar units expected to be obtained from the asset by the Group rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, and and for which the Group retains control of access to those benefits.
hire purchase contracts, are capitalised in the balance sheet at the For intangible assets with a finite useful life, the amortisation lower of the fair value of the leased property or the present value of method and period are reviewed annually and impairment testing the minimum lease payments during the lease term calculated using is undertaken when circumstances indicate the carrying amount the interest rate implicit in the lease agreement.
These amounts are may not be recoverable.
determined at the inception of the lease and are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or lease term.
The capital Where an intangible asset is disposed of, it is derecognised and elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase the difference between its carrying value and the net sales proceeds contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
The interest is reported as a profit or loss on disposal in the income statement in elements of the lease or hire purchase obligations are charged to the the financial year the disposal occurs.
income statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase Coal export rights contracts and represent a constant proportion of the balance of Coal export rights are carried at cost and amortised using a unit-ofcapital repayments outstanding.
production method based on the reserves that exist in the location Leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership that has access to such rights.
have not passed to the Group are classified as operating leases.
Software and technology patents Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income Software and technology patents are carried at cost and amortised statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
over a period of three years and 20 years respectively.
Deferred stripping costs Hydroelectricity rights In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden Hydroelectricity rights acquired will be amortised over the expected and other waste in order to access the ore body.
During the prelife of the operation following the completion of construction.
production phase, these costs are capitalised as part of the cost of the mine property and depreciated based on the mines strip ratio.
Long-term feed contract A long-term feed contract is amortised over the remaining contract term.
com Impairment of assets Discontinued operations The carrying amounts of non-current assets are reviewed for A discontinued operation is a component of an entity, whose impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate operations and cash flows are clearly distinguished both the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators operationally and for financial reporting purposes from the rest of impairment, a review is undertaken to determine whether the of the entity, that has been disposed of or classified as held-for-sale.
carrying amounts are in excess of their recoverable amounts.
To be classified as a discontinued operation one of the following An assets recoverable amount is determined as the higher of criteria must be met: its fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Such reviews are the operation must represent a separate major line of business undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except where assets do not or geographical area of operations: or generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which case the review is undertaken at the cash-generating unit level.
the operation must be part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical Where a cash-generating unit, or group of cash-generating units, has area of operations: or goodwill allocated to it, or includes intangible assets that are either not available for use or that have an indefinite useful life and which the operation must be a subsidiary acquired exclusively with can only be tested as part of a cash-generating unit, an impairment a view to resale.
test is performed at least annually or whenever there is an indication Where the operation is discontinued at the balance sheet date, that the carrying amounts of such assets may be impaired.
the results are presented in one line on the face of the income If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, statement, and prior period results are represented as discontinued.
an impairment loss is recorded in the income statement to reflect the Financial assets asset at the lower amount.
In assessing the value-in-use, the relevant Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing use of such through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity assets and from their disposal are discounted to their present value investments or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
using a market-determined pre-tax discount rate that reflects current The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial market assessments of the time value of money and asset-specific recognition.
Where, as a result of a change in intention or ability, it is risks for which the cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
no longer appropriate to classify an investment as held-to-maturity, Fair value less costs to sell is determined as the amount that would the investment is reclassified into the available-for-sale category.
be obtained from the sale of the asset in an arms-length transaction When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured between knowledgeable and willing parties.
For mining assets this at fair value on the trade date, plus, in the case of investments not would generally be determined based on the present value of the at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction estimated future cash flows arising from the continued use and costs.
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at their fair value.
eventual disposal of the asset.
In assessing these cash flows and Subsequently, all financial liabilities with the exception of derivatives discounting them to present value, assumptions used are those are carried at amortised cost.
that an independent market participant would consider appropriate.
The Group considers whether a contract contains an embedded An impairment loss is reversed in the income statement if there is a derivative when the Group becomes a party to the contract.
change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract if it since the prior impairment loss was recognised.
The carrying amount is not measured at fair value through profit and loss and when the is increased to the recoverable amount, but not beyond the carrying economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to the amount, net of depreciation or amortisation that would have arisen host contract.
if the prior impairment loss had not been recognised.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, Financial assets classified as held-for-trading are included in the on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Goodwill category financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial impairments are not reversed.
assets are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term.
Derivatives are also classified Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued operations as held-for-trading unless they are designated as and are effective Non-current assets held-for-sale hedging instruments.
Gains or losses on these items are recognised Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held-for-sale in income.
if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as Loans and receivables met only when the sale is highly probable and the assets or disposal Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or groups are available for immediate sale in their present condition.
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do The Group must be committed to the sale which should be expected not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year of the fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
Such assets are date of classification.
carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Non-current assets or disposal groups held-for-sale are carried at Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and the lower of the carrying amount prior to being classified as held-forreceivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the sale and the fair value less costs to sell.
A non-current asset is not amortisation process.
Trade and other receivables are recognised depreciated while classified as held-for-sale.
and carried at their original invoiced value, adjusted, where appropriate, for provisional pricing or their recoverable amount if this A non-current asset held-for-sale is presented separately in the differs from the invoiced amount.
Where the time value of money is balance sheet.
The assets and liabilities of a disposal group classified material, receivables are discounted and are carried at their present as held-for-sale are presented separately as one line in the assets and value.
A provision is made where the estimated recoverable amount liabilities sections on the face of the balance sheet.
is lower than the carrying amount.
com 77 Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Principal accounting policies continued Financial assets carried at amortised cost Available-for-sale financial assets If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial receivables and held-to-maturity investments carried at amortised assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the in any of the other three stated categories.
After initial recognition, difference between the assets carrying amount and the present available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with gains value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reported in equity is included in the income statement.
reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
Objective evidence of impairment of loans and Listed share investments are carried at fair value based on stock receivables exists if the counter-party is experiencing significant exchange quoted prices at the balance sheet date.
Unlisted shares financial difficulty, there is a breach of contract, concessions are are carried at fair value where it can be reliably obtained, otherwise granted to the counter-party that would not normally be granted, they are stated at cost less any impairment.
or it is probable that the counter-party will enter into bankruptcy Fair values or a financial reorganisation.
The fair value of quoted financial assets is determined by reference If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss to bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously valuation techniques.
These include recent arms-length market recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal transactions: reference to current market value of another instrument of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to which is substantially the same: discounted cash flow analysis: and the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its pricing models.
amortised cost at the reversal date.
Derivative financial instruments are valued using applicable valuation Assets carried at cost techniques such as those outlined above.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair Financial assets value cannot be reliably measured, the amount of the loss is A financial asset is fide-recognised when: measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, Available-for-sale financial assets but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, an amount delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any the asset and either has transferred substantially all the risks impairment loss previously recognised in profit or loss, is transferred and rewards of the asset, or has neither transferred nor retained from equity to the income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in transferred control of the asset.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are reversed through profit or loss, if the increase in fair value of the Where the Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from instrument can objectively be related to an event occurring after an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss.
risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, it continues to recognise the financial asset to the extent of its Rehabilitation trust fund continuing involvement in the asset.
Investments in the rehabilitation trust fund are measured at fair value based on the market price of investments held by the trust.
In Financial liabilities accordance with IFRIC 5, movements in the fair value are recognised A financial liability is fide-recognised when the obligation under the in the income statement.
Such amounts relate to trusts in South liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Africa which receive cash contributions to accumulate funds for the Gains and losses on fide-recognition are recognised within finance Groups rehabilitation liabilities relating to the eventual closure of the income and finance costs respectively.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from Derivative financial instruments and hedging the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or rate swaps, forward currency and commodity contracts to hedge its modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability risks associated with interest rate, foreign currency and commodity and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the price fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Impairment of financial assets Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to profit or loss for the year.
com The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is Hedges of a net investment calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates and prices Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation are accounted for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest for in a way similar to cash flow hedges.
Gains or losses on the rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are similar instruments.
recognised directly in equity while any gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in profit or loss.
On disposal of the For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gains or losses fair value hedges: recognised directly in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
cash flow hedges: or Own shares The cost of purchases of own shares held by the Employee Share hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Ownership Plan ESOP trust are deducted from equity.
Where they At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally are issued to employees or sold, no gain or loss is recognised in the designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the income statement.
Any proceeds received on disposal of the shares Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management or transfer to employees are recognised in equity.
objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The Own shares purchased under the Equity Capital Management documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the Programme ECMP are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or how the entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in cancellation of such shares.
Such gains and losses are recognised offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or directly in equity.
cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Hedges that are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or Interest-bearing loans and borrowings cash flows are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine if they Loans are recognised at inception at the fair value of proceeds actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting received, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently periods for which they were designated.
they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Finance costs are recognised in the income statement Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are using the effective interest method.
accounted for as follows: Inventories Fair value hedges Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Fair value hedges are hedges of the Groups exposure to changes Cost is determined on a weighted average basis or by using a firstin the fair value of a recognised asset or liability that could affect in-first-out basis and includes all costs incurred in the normal course profit or loss.
The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for of business including direct material and direct labour costs and an gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged, the derivative allocation of production overheads, depreciation and amortisation is remeasured at fair value, and gains and losses from both are taken and other costs, based on normal production capacity, incurred in to profit or loss.
bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Cost of For fair value hedges relating to items carried at amortised cost, the inventories includes the transfers from equity of gains and losses on adjustment to carrying value is amortised through profit or loss over qualifying cash flow hedges in respect of the purchase of materials.
the remaining term to maturity.
Any adjustment to the carrying Inventories are categorised as follows: amount of a hedged financial instrument for which the effective raw materials and consumables: materials, goods or supplies interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss.
including energy sources to be either directly or indirectly Amortisation begins when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted consumed in the production process: for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
work in progress: items stored in an intermediate state that The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging have not yet passed through all the stages of production: and instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no finished goods: products and materials that have passed all stages longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, or the Group revokes of the production process.
Net realisable value represents estimated selling price in the ordinary Cash flow hedges course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to Cash flow hedges are hedges of an exposure to variability in completion and disposal.
cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction Cash and cash equivalents that could affect profit or loss.
The effective portion of the gain or Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash in hand loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss.
For the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include certain bank overdrafts where the facility forms part of the working Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement capital cash management activities.
when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the Government grants amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable of the non-financial asset or liability.
assurance that the grant will be received and all the attaching conditions will be complied with.
Government grants in respect If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts of capital expenditure are credited to the carrying amount of the previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or loss.
related asset and are released to the income statement over the If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised expected useful lives of the relevant assets.
Grants that are not without replacement or roll-over, or if its designation as a hedge is associated with an asset are credited to income so as to match revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity them with the expense to which they relate.
until the forecast transaction occurs.
If the related transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken to profit or loss.
com 79 Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Principal accounting policies continued Deferred tax Environmental protection, rehabilitation and closure costs Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method in Provision is made for close down, restoration and environmental respect of all temporary differences between the tax bases of assets rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition and liabilities, and their carrying amounts for financial reporting of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation purposes, except as indicated below: of disturbed areas in the financial period when the related Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable environmental disturbance occurs, based on the estimated future temporary differences, except: costs using information available at the balance sheet date.
The provision is discounted using a current market-based pre-tax where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial discount rate and the unwinding of the discount is included in recognition of goodwill, or the initial recognition of an asset or interest expense.
At the time of establishing the provision, a liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, corresponding asset is capitalised, where it gives rise to a future at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting benefit, and depreciated over future production from the operations profit nor taxable profit or loss: and to which it relates.
in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes to investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint obligations, legislation or discount rates that impact estimated costs ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary or lives of operations.
The cost of the related asset is adjusted for differences can be controlled and it is probable that the changes in the provision resulting from changes in the estimated temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
cash flows or discount rate and the adjusted cost of the asset is Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible depreciated prospectively.
temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and Rehabilitation trust funds holding monies committed for use in unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit satisfying environmental obligations are included within other will be available against which the deductible temporary differences financial assets on the balance sheet.
and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: Employee entitlements Provisions are recognised for short-term employee entitlements, where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible on an undiscounted basis, for services rendered by employees that temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset remain unpaid at the balance sheet date.
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit Provisions for long-term employee entitlements are measured using nor taxable profit or loss: and the projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with bond of equivalent currency and term to the liabilities.
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent In some of the Groups Australian operations, long-service leave that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in an employee entitlement for which a provision is recorded is the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against administered by an independent fund.
The fund collects levies which the temporary differences can be utilised.
from employers throughout the industry based on the expected cost of future liabilities.
When the Group makes long-service leave The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed payments to employees covered by the fund, it is reimbursed for at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no the majority of the payment.
To reflect the expected reimbursement longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow for future long-service leave payments from the fund, a receivable all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
To the is recorded based on the present value of the future amounts extent that an asset not previously recognised fulfils the criteria for expected to be reimbursed.
recognition, a deferred income tax asset is recorded.
Other provisions Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is legal or constructive, as a result of past events, and it is probable realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that an outflow of resources that can be reliably estimated will be enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
required to settle the obligation.
Where the effect is material, the Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised directly in provision is discounted to net present value using an appropriate equity are recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
current market-based pre-tax discount rate and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
Mining taxes and royalties are treated and disclosed as current and deferred taxes if they have the characteristics of an income tax.
Taxation Current tax Pensions and other post-retirement obligations Current tax for each taxable entity in the Group is based on the local The Groups contributions to defined contribution pension plans are taxable income at the local statutory tax rate enacted or substantively charged to the income statement in the year to which they relate.
enacted at the balance sheet date and includes adjustments to tax The Group contributes to separately administered defined benefit payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
com For defined benefit funds, plan assets are measured at fair value, No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, while plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a the beginning of the year of long-term market returns on scheme minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of modified over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
In is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair value of measuring its defined benefit liability, past service costs are the share-based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the period the employee as measured at the date of modification, over the until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest remainder of the new vesting period.
immediately following the introduction of, or changes to, a defined benefit plan, the past service costs are recognised immediately.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if When a settlement eliminating all obligations for part or all of the it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not benefits that have already accrued or a curtailment reducing future yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
Any obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss is recognised in statement.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled the income statement during the period in which the settlement or award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it curtailment occurs.
is granted, the new award is treated as if it is a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees for the year is determined using the projected unit method and is Cash-settled awards recognised in the income statement.
The difference between the For cash-settled awards, the fair value is recalculated at each balance expected return on plan assets and the unwinding of the discount date until the awards are settled based on the estimated number on plan liabilities is recognised in the income statement.
of awards that are expected to vest, adjusting for market and nonmarket based performance conditions.
During the vesting period, a Actuarial gains or losses are recognised directly in equity through liability is recognised representing the portion of the vesting period the statement of recognised income and expenses.
The full pension that has expired at the balance sheet date multiplied by the fair value surplus or deficit is recorded in the balance sheet, with the exception of the awards at that date.
After vesting, the full fair value of the of the impact of any recognition of past service costs.
Surpluses unsettled awards at each balance date is recognised as a liability.
recorded are restricted to the sum of any unrecognised past Movements in the liability are recognised in the income statement.
service costs and present value of any amounts the Group expects The fair value is recalculated using an option pricing model refer to to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in note 35. future contributions.
Borrowing costs The Group also provides post-retirement healthcare benefits to Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction certain employees in Canada, the Dominican Republic, South Africa or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period and the United States.
These are accounted for in a similar manner of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised and to the defined benefit pension plans.
amortised over the useful life of the asset.
Borrowing costs related Ordinary share capital to the establishment of a loan facility are capitalised and amortised Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the net over the life of the facility.
Other borrowing costs are recognised proceeds received, which is the fair value of the consideration as an expense in the financial period incurred.
received less costs that are incurred in connection with the share Comparatives issue.
The nominal par value of the shares issued is taken to the share Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to disclose capital account and any excess is recorded in the share premium them on the same basis as the current year.
account, including the costs that were incurred with the share issue.
Share-based compensation plans The Group makes share-based awards, including free shares and options, to certain employees.
Equity-settled awards For equity-settled awards, the fair value is charged to the income statement and credited to retained earnings, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, after adjusting for the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest taking into account the achievement of non-market-based performance conditions.
The fair value of the equity-settled awards is determined at the date of the grant.
In calculating fair value, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
The fair value is determined by external experts using option pricing models.
At each balance sheet date prior to vesting, the cumulative expense representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest is computed after adjusting for non-market performance conditions.
The movement in cumulative expense is recognised in the income statement with a corresponding entry within equity.
com 81 Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Acquisitions Business combinations There were no business combinations during the year.
Prior year business combinations Zanaga In February 2011 the Group exercised its call option over Jumelles Limited Jumelles, the owner of the Zanaga iron ore project in the Republic of Congo, whereby the Group acquired a 50% plus one share interest in Jumelles in return for a commitment to fund a feasibility study, estimated to cost US$250 million in addition to US$105 million spent prior to acquisition and US$22 million for outstanding shareholder loans.
The final fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired were as follows: Provisional fair value as Final reported at Fair value fair value of 31.12.11 adjustments acquisition US$m Property, plant and equipment 497 497 Prepayments 1 1 Trade and other receivables 251 251 749 749 Trade and other payables 6 6 Provisions 2 2 Deferred tax liabilities 118 118 Net assets 623 623 Non-controlling interests 317 317 Net attributable assets 306 306 Goodwill arising on acquisition 59 59 365 365 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 12 Cash paid 22 Pre-feasibility costs incurred to date 105 Contingent consideration 250 365 The initial fair value adjustments principally relate to the recognition of the reserves and resources as well as the estimated cost of the remaining feasibility study costs which the Group will fund.
The goodwill balance is the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired and their tax bases.
First Coal On 28 July 2011, the Group made a CAD1.75 per share cash offer to acquire all of the shares in First Coal Corporation First Coal, a privatelyowned Canadian company.
The Group acquired all of the issued share capital of First Coal following successful completion of the plan of arrangement on 4 August 2011.
The total cost of the acquisition was US$140 million.
First Coal owns coking coal exploration leases in British Columbia, Canada.
The final fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired were as follows: Provisional fair value as Final fair reported at Fair value value of 31.12.11 adjustments acquisition US$m Property, plant and equipment 148 148 Trade and other payables 6 6 Provisions 2 2 Deferred tax liabilities 22 22 Net assets 118 118 Goodwill arising on acquisition 22 22 140 140 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 4 Cash paid 144 140 82 Xstrata | Annual Report 2012 | www.
com The initial fair value adjustments principally relate to the recognition of the reserves and resources.
The below information provides aggregate amounts of acquired assets and liabilities for all business combinations in 2012 and 2011: 2012 2011 US$m Property, plant and equipment 540 Prepayments 1 Trade and other receivables 251 792 Trade and other payables 12 Provisions 4 Deferred tax liabilities 140 Net assets 636 Non-controlling interests 258 Net attributable assets 378 Goodwill arising on acquisition 81 459 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 16 Cash paid 225 Contingent consideration 250 459 8.
Disposals and assets held for sale 2012 Western Canada Coalfields In March 2012, the Group entered into an agreement between Xstrata Coal and JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation Group JX comprising contiguous metallurgical coal assets in the Peace River Coalfields.
As consideration, JX paid US$435 million in cash to acquire a 25% noncontrolling interest in the Peace River Coalfields in Western Canada.
Disposal costs of US$5 million were incurred and the excess over the carrying value of the non-controlling interest of US$257 million has been recorded within other reserves.
Energa Austral Joint Venture In April 2012, the Group entered into a joint venture agreement with Origin Energy Limited Origin whereby Origin acquired a 51% interest in the Groups Energa Austral hydroelectric development in Chile.
Under the terms of the agreement, Origin will invest US$75 million for the completion of a detailed project feasibility study and will invest an additional US$75 million if the project is deemed feasible.
The Group is entitled to cash consideration payments from Origin once the project is operational and if certain performance threshold targets are met.
No intangible asset is able to be recognised for the technical expertise and industry experience that Origin is contributing to the project.
The retained 49% interest and the deferred cash consideration have been measured at their estimated fair value, consequently a non-cash loss of US$166 million has been recognised upon entering into the joint venture agreement refer to note 10.
Assets and liabilities held-for-sale: The net assets classified as held-for-sale as at 31 December 2012 were US$25 million 2011 US$nil relating to a coal project in Canada.
2011 Bakwena Ba Magopa Community Trust In February 2011 the Group finalised a black empowerment agreement in respect of the Groups Rhovan vanadium operations Rhovan in South Africa.
The Bakwena Ba Magopa Community Trust Bakwena acquired 26% interest in the Rhovan business for US$56 million.
The Group facilitated the transaction by providing vendor financing and the loan will be repayable from a portion of Bakwenas share of future free cash flows.
A profit of US$48 million has been recognised on the finalisation of the transaction refer to note 10 reflecting the change from control to joint control.
Mpumalanga In December 2011, the Group received final government and regulatory approval for the sale of the Mpumalanga coal assets in South Africa.
The total consideration was US$43 million, made up of cash and value attributed to a favourable off-take agreement.
A gain on disposal of US$8 million has been recognised in other revenue.
com 83 Notes to the financial statements continued 8.
Disposals and assets held for sale continued Consolidated information The information below is provided below for the sole disposal Energia Austral in 2012 and in aggregate for the 2011 disposals: 2012 2011 US$m Intangible assets 262 Property, plant and equipment 28 8 Trade and other receivables 29 Other financial assets 4 Assets classified as held-for-sale 130 323 138 Trade and other payables 16 Deferred tax liabilities 38 Liabilities classified as held-for-sale 95 Net assets 269 43 Consideration: Deferred consideration 107 60 Disposal costs 4 Off-take agreement 39 Total consideration 103 99 Loss gain on disposal of discontinued operations 166 56 9.
Segmental analysis Operating segments Xstratas business is organised into five global commodity businesses, each of which operates with a high degree of autonomy.
In addition to the five global segments, the Xstrata Technology Services and Xstrata Iron Ore businesses, which are not significant parts of the business, are also included below for disclosure purposes.
Management monitors the operating results of each business unit as a standalone entity.
Segment performance is evaluated based on a number of measures including return on capital employed and operating profit.
Finance income and costs, and income tax, are managed on a Group basis.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arms-length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups operating segments for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011.
com 85 Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Such unallocated assets include corporate cash and cash equivalents of US$319 million 2011US$651 million, derivative financial assets that have mainly been used to provide an economic hedge of capital market notes of US$772 million 2011 US$720 million, Infrastructure loans and other financial assets of US$294 million 2011 US$183 million, Income taxes receivable of US$162 million 2011 US$nil and other assets of US$382 million 2011 US$131 million.
Includes corporate liabilities not directly attributable to operating segments.
Such unallocated liabilities include interest-bearing loans and borrowings of US$16,518 million 2011 US$9,776 million, share-based compensation plan provisions of US$26 million 2011 US$97 million, pension deficit and other provisions of US$289 million 2011 US$217 million, deferred and current tax liabilities of US$62 million 2011 US$974 million, derivative financial liabilities that have mainly been used to provide an economic hedge of capital market notes of US$358 million 2011 US$462 million, interest payables of US$107 million 2011 US$71 million and other liabilities of US$297 million 2011 US$53 million.
com 87 Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Segmental analysis continued 2012 2011 US$m Capital expenditure Sustaining: Coal 983 801 Alloys 123 137 Copper 816 654 Nickel 259 287 Zinc Lead 553 504 Iron Ore 1 Technology 3 3 Total sustaining 2,737 2,387 Unallocated 13 5 Total 2,750 2,392 Expansionary: Coal 2,114 1,193 Alloys 290 250 Copper 2,627 2,424 Nickel 1,565 1,351 Zinc Lead 832 381 Iron Ore 148 171 Technology 6 3 Total expansionary 7,582 5,773 Total capital expenditure: Coal 3,097 1,994 Alloys 413 387 Copper 3,443 3,078 Nickel 1,824 1,638 Zinc Lead 1,385 885 Iron Ore 148 172 Technology 9 6 Total 10,319 8,160 Unallocated 13 5 Total 10,332 8,165 The average number of employees, which includes executive directors and excludes contractors, during the year was as follows: 2012 2011 Coal 12,347 11,613 Alloys 7,409 6,887 Copper 13,171 12,366 Iron Ore 736 619 Nickel 4,175 3,840 Zinc Lead 5,133 4,758 Technology 220 179 Total 43,191 40,262 Unallocated 132 129 Total 43,323 40,391 88 Xstrata | Annual Report 2012 | www.
com The average number of contractors during the year is as follows: 2012 2011 Coal 5,399 7,915 Alloys 8,984 7,477 Copper 12,404 12,167 Iron Ore 393 527 Nickel 7,312 7,120 Zinc Lead 2,280 1,469 Technology 85 69 Total 36,857 36,744 Unallocated 6 5 Total 36,863 36,749 Geographical areas The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups geographical areas for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011: Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items 2012 items items 2011 US$m Revenue by origin External parties: Africa 3,052 3,052 3,018 3,018 Americas North 6,094 6,094 6,657 6,657 Americas South 9,069 9,069 9,748 9,748 Australasia 10,272 10,272 11,002 11,002 Europe 3,131 3,131 3,452 3,452 Total 31,61831,618 33,877 33,877 Revenue by destination External parties: Africa 723 723 679 679 Americas North 5,567 5,567 6,047 6,047 Americas South 1,421 1,421 2,426 2,426 Asia 16,199 16,199 15,372 15,372 Australasia 808 808 1,090 1,090 Europe 6,708 6,708 8,113 8,113 Middle East 192 192 150 150 Total 31,61831,618 33,877 33,877 The revenue information above is based on the location of the customer.
Revenue from one customer was greater than 10% of total revenues and arising from sales within a number of different operating and geographical segments refer to note 35.
com 89 Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Such unallocated assets include goodwill of US$2,731 million 2010 US$2,731 million, corporate cash and cash equivalents of US$319 million 2011 US$651 million, derivative financial assets that have mainly been used to provide an economic hedge of capital market notes of US$772 million 2011 US$720 million, Infrastructure loans other financial assets of US$294 million 2011 US$183 million, income taxes receivable of US$162 million 2011 US$nil and other assets of US$382 million 2011 US$131 million.
Includes corporate liabilities not directly attributable to geographical areas.
com 91 Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Segmental analysis continued 2012 2011 US$m Capital expenditure Sustaining: Africa 193 213 Americas North 317 349 Americas South 519 420 Australasia 1,645 1,343 Europe 63 62 Total sustaining 2,737 2,387 Unallocated 13 5 Total 2,750 2,392 Expansionary: Africa 706 607 Americas North 435 154 Americas South 2,385 2,089 Australasia 4,017 2,887 Europe 39 36 Total 7,582 5,773 Total capital expenditure: Africa 899 820 Americas North 752 503 Americas South 2,904 2,509 Australasia 5,662 4,230 Europe 102 98 Total 10,319 8,160 Unallocated 13 5 Total 10,332 8,165 The average number of employees, which includes executive directors and excludes contractors, during the year is as follows: Africa 12,131 11,818 Americas North 6,084 5,955 Americas South 10,137 8,896 Australasia 12,786 11,560 Europe 2,028 2,014 Middle East 25 19 Total 43,191 40,262 Unallocated 132 129 Total 43,323 40,391 The average number of contractors during the year is as follows: Africa 10,399 11,360 Americas North 1,827 1,808 Americas South 11,967 11,557 Australasia 12,315 11,652 Europe 349 367 Total 36,857 36,744 Unallocated 6 5 Total 36,863 36,749 92 Xstrata | Annual Report 2012 | www.
Revenue and expenses Revenue and expenses 2012 2011 US$m Revenue sales of goods 31,618 33,877 Less cost of sales 22,975 22,439 Gross profit 8,643 11,438 Operating costs: Cost of sales 19,673 19,243 Distribution costs 2,844 2,450 Administrative expenses 847 517 Other income and expenses 132 19 Operating costs 23,496 22,229 After depreciation and amortisation and impairment of assets.
Before depreciation and amortisation and impairment of assets.
Depreciation and amortisation Depreciation of owned assets 3,218 3,103 Depreciation of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 7 15 Total depreciation 3,225 3,118 Amortisation of intangible assets 107 99 Total depreciation and amortisation 3,332 3,217 Total foreign exchange gains losses recognised 126 142 Inventory recognised as an expense 21,997 22,433 Operating lease rental expense minimum lease payments 52 79 Royalties paid 772 1,056 Research and development 4 2 Employee costs including Directors emoluments refer to the Remuneration report on pages 45 to 58 for details.
Wages and salaries 3,628 3,301 Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs refer to note 34 288 261 Social security and other benefits 153 116 Share-based compensation plans refer to note 34 411 4 Total employee costs 4,480 3,674 Includes exceptional items.
Auditors remuneration 2012 2011 US$m a Auditors remuneration : Group auditors UK 1 1 Group auditors overseas 13 13 14 14 Amounts paid to auditors for other work: Audit-related assurance services 3 2 Other assurance services 2 1 Corporate finance services 5 1 Tax advisory services 3 4 Amounts paid to auditors for other work 13 8 Total amounts paid to auditors 27 22 Other audit firms 10 8 a The Group audit fee includes US$51,000 2011 US$49,000 in respect of the Parent Company.
The Corporate Governance report set out on pages 38 to 44 details the Groups policy with regard to the independence and objectivity of the external and internal auditors and the provision and approval of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
com 93 Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Revenue and expenses continued Finance income 2012 2011 US$m Bank and interest received from third parties 124 121 Discount unwinding 8 Dividends 2 Foreign currency gains on other loans 52 14 Total finance income 184 137 Finance costs Amortisation of loan issue costs 21 9 Discount unwinding 129 145 Finance charges payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 19 18 Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 17 23 Interest on capital market notes 156 173 Interest on non-controlling interest loans 1 5 Interest on other financial liabilities 23 20 Hedge ineffectiveness 4 31 Other 27 28 Finance cost before exceptional items 397 452 Loan issue costs written off on facility refinancing 12 19 Total finance cost 409 471 These amounts mainly relate to foreign currency gains and losses on US and Canadian dollar inter-company loans in Australian entities.
Total interest income and expense calculated using the effective interest method for financial assets and liabilities not at fair value through the profit and loss are US$124 million 2011 US$121 million and US$224 million 2011 US$249 million respectively.
Exceptional items 2012 2011 US$m Other exceptional items: Acquisition and disposal costs 143 4 Accelerated share-based compensation plan charges 185 Available-for-sale financial assets write-down 32 43 Liability fair value adjustments 116 Loss profit on establishment of a joint venture 166 48 Profit on sale of operations 18 Restructuring and closure costs 12 15 Operating EBITDA exceptional items 636 16 Impairment of assets 978 469 Reversal of assets previously impaired 463 Operating loss profit on exceptional items 1,614 10 Impairment of investment in associates 840 Share of exceptional results from associates 105 12 Exceptional items before interest and taxation 2,559 22 Loan issue costs written off on facility refinancing 12 19 Exceptional items before taxation 2,571 3 Income tax credit charge 14 75 Exceptional items after taxation 2,557 72 Acquisition and disposal costs US$143 million 2011 US$4 million During 2012, the Group incurred acquisition and disposal costs of US$136 million in relation to the recommended all-share merger of equals with Glencore International plc, as announced on 7 February 2012 and approved by shareholders on 20 November 2012.
During 2012, the Group incurred a further US$7 million dollars with respect to asset acquisitions and disposal costs.
During 2011 the Group incurred acquisition and disposal costs of US$4 million in relation to offers made to acquire companies and dispose assets.
Accelerated share-based compensation plan charges US$185 million 2011 US$nil Following the approval by shareholders on 20 November 2012 of the recommended all-share merger of equals with Glencore International plc, the expected vesting date for all share-based compensation plan awards was revised forward as all awards will vest upon completion of the transaction and change of control.
This has resulted in an accelerated share-based compensation plan charge of US$185 million US$149 million after tax for 2012.
com Available-for-sale financial assets write-down US$32 million 2011 US$43 million During 2012, the Group recognised US$32 million 2011 US$43 million of unrealised losses associated with significant or prolonged declines in the market value of listed investments.
Liability fair value adjustments US$116 million 2011 US$nil The Group is required to recognise a liability at fair value representing African Rainbow Minerals Limiteds ARM interest in Xstratas South African coal operations.
In 2012 the liability increased by US$116 million due mainly to improved productivity, increased lives of certain operations and favourable foreign exchange movements.
During 2011, there was no change in the liability.
Loss profit on establishment of a joint venture US$166 million 2011 gain of US$48 million During 2012, the Group recognised a US$166 million loss on the formation of the Energia Austral joint venture, which resulted in the loss of control over the previously wholly-owned hydroelectricity project in Chile refer to note 8.
During 2011, the Group recognised a US$48 million profit on the disposal of an interest in its Rhovan vanadium operations upon the finalisation of a black empowerment agreement in South Africa refer to note 8.
Profit on sale of operations US$18 million 2011 US$nil During 2012, the Group recognised a US$18 million profit on the disposal of copper exploration tenements in Brazil.
Restructuring and closure costs US$12 million 2011 gain of US$15 million During 2012, US$7 million of restructuring and closure costs were incurred in relation to the Kidd metallurgical plants and US$5 million were incurred in relation to the Cosmos nickel mine in Western Australia following its suspension as announced on 26 September 2012.
During 2011, US$15 million of surplus restructuring and closure costs provided for the Kidd metallurgical plants were reversed to the income statement.
Impairment of assets and reversal of assets previously impaired 2012 US$978 million In March 2012, the Group announced that the Brunswick zinc mine was approaching the end of its mine life and will close by the end of March 2013.
During 2012, the Group recorded a US$157 million impairment of goodwill that was initially recognised from the Falconbridge Limited acquisition in 2006, as a result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability on the fair value adjustments.
Following a review of the Australian nickel operations due to a prolonged period of low nickel prices and a strong Australian dollar, the Cosmos mine was placed on care and maintenance and mine plans at other Australian nickel operations were updated during 2012, resulting in an impairment of US$447 million US$313 million after tax.
During 2012, there was a deterioration in the precious group metals PGM market conditions, particularly in Europe, and as a result of this weak market outlook, increasing cost pressures across the industry and challenging geological conditions, a strategic review of the Eland PGM operation in South Africa was performed.
As a result of the review, the planned development of the eastern decline will be deferred, delaying forecast production increases.
This, coupled with the factors described above, resulted in the recognition of an impairment of US$354 million, inclusive of US$273 million of goodwill.
During 2012, a US$20 million impairment of goodwill was recorded in the African Carbon Group in South Africa as a result of the adverse market conditions for char within the ferrochrome industry.
2011 impairment of US$469 million and US$463 million reversal of assets previously impaired As a consequence of ongoing optimisation across the business, the estimated recoverable amount of the Integrated Nickel Operations INO has increased, resulting in an impairment reversal of US$463 million US$324 million after tax.
The Prospero nickel mine in Australia was permanently closed during 2011 resulting in an impairment of US$469 million US$328 million after tax against the carrying value of its assets and surrounding prospective mines.
Impairment of investment in associates US$840 million 2011 US$nil During 2012, an impairment charge of US$840 million was recorded in respect of the Groups equity investment in Lonmin.
This impairment is consistent with our updated forecast of Lonmins performance based on its 2012 annual results and the challenging outlook for the company and the industry.
Share of exceptional results from associates US$105 million 2011 gain of US$12 million During 2012, US$105 million 2011 US$12 million was recognised in relation to the Groups share of the exceptional items consisting of employee strike-related costs, impairments, net financing costs and related taxation credits recognised by Lonmin in its 2012 annual report.
Loan issue costs written off on facility refinancing US$12 million 2011 US$19 million During 2012, the Group incurred costs of US$12 million in relation to unutilised finance facilities which were cancelled.
In 2011 the Group refinanced its bank facilities and wrote off related issue costs of US$19 million.
Income tax credit charge US$14million 2011 charge of US$75 million During 2012, the Group recognised an exceptional tax credit of US$14 million, primarily as a result of the tax effect of the impairment of assets, acquisition and disposal costs, accelerated share-based compensation plan charges, refinancing and restructuring and closure costs offset by the permanent change in the statutory corporate income tax rate in Chile from 17% to 20%.
During 2011, the Group recognised an exceptional tax charge of US$75 million, primarily as a result of the introduction of a number of new taxes levied on the mining industry in Peru, the impairment of assets, profit on sale of operations, refinancing and the reversal of restructuring and closure costs.
com 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 11.
Income taxes Income tax charge Significant components of the income tax charge for the years ended: 2012 2011 US$m Consolidated income statement Current tax: Based on taxable income for the current year 1,110 2,023 Prior year adjustment 556 7 Total current taxation charge for the year 554 2,030 Deferred taxation: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 183 160 Change in tax rates 180 70 Deferred tax credit arising from the reversal of a previous write-down of a deferred tax asset 3 86 Prior year adjustment 87 41 Total deferred taxation charge for the year 81 185 Total taxation charge 635 2,215 UK taxation included above: Current tax 5 19 Deferred tax 25 12 Total taxation charge credit 20 31 Recognised directly in equity Deferred tax: Available-for-sale financial assets 24 1 Cash flow hedges 1 19 Other equity classified items 32 52 Total taxation credit reported in equity 9 72 Prior year adjustments include true up balancing following lodgement of income tax returns, receipt of income tax assessments and revisions to tax payable estimates after the resolution of certain tax audits.
The amounts above include the tax charge attributable to exceptional items refer to note 10.
A reconciliation of income tax charge applicable to accounting profit before income tax at the weighted average statutory income tax rate to income tax charge at the Group effective income tax rate for the years ended are as follows: 2012 2011 Profit before taxation 2,007 8,148 Expected tax charge at the weighted average statutory income tax rate 29.6% 2011: 26.0% 594 2,117 Goodwill impairment 166 Mining and other taxes 131 152 Foreign currency gains and losses 33 6 Investment allowances 7 57 Non-deductible expenses 24 17 Rebatable dividends received 4 1 Research and development allowances 11 39 Change in tax rates 180 70 Deferred tax credit charge arising from the write-down, or reversal of a previous write-down, of a deferred tax asset 3 86 Prior year adjustment 468 48 Tax charge at an effective income tax rate 635 2,215 The above reconciling items are disclosed at the tax rates that apply in the country where they have arisen.
The weighted average statutory income tax rate is the average of the standard income tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profit loss before tax of the subsidiaries in the respective countries as included in the consolidated accounts.
The change in the average statutory income tax rate is mainly due to the variation in the weight of subsidiaries profits.
com Recognition of deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets for the carry-forward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits are only recognised above the level of deferred tax liabilities to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the unused tax losses credits can be utilised.
Unrecognised tax losses unrecognised deductible temporary differences The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in relation to tax losses that are available indefinitely of US$44 million 2011 US$42 million to carry forward against future taxable income of the companies in which the losses arose.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as they may not be used to offset taxable profits elsewhere in the Group and they have arisen in subsidiaries that have been loss-making for some time.
There are no other deductible temporary differences that have not been recognised at balance sheet date.
Temporary differences relating to Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT At 31 December 2012, the Group had US$11,008 million of unrecognised deferred tax assets 2011 US$nil that arose due to the enactment of the Australian MRRT legislation in March 2012.
Recognition of a deferred tax asset associated with MRRT of US$11,008 million 2011 US$nil would result in a corresponding additional deferred tax liability for income tax purposes of US$3,303 million 2011 US$nil.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments At 31 December 2012, the Group had undistributed earnings of certain Group subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures totalling US$14,269 million 2011 US$18,206 million for which no deferred tax liabilities have been recognised for any taxes that would be payable on the remittance of these earnings as: the Group has determined that undistributed earnings of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future: the earnings of the associates will not be distributed until they obtain the consent of the Group: and the investments are not held-for-resale and are expected to be recouped by continued use of these operations by the subsidiaries.
There are no income tax consequences for the Group attaching to the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders.
The deferred tax assets liabilities included on the face of the balance sheet are as follows: 2012 2011 US$m Deferred tax assets 16 44 Deferred tax liabilities 6,114 6,109 6,098 6,065 The reconciliation of net deferred tax liabilities are as follows: Accelerated Trade Employee depreciation and other Equityand other Rehabilitation and payables related Tax losses provisions and closure amortisation receivables items Other Total US$m At 1 January 2011 204 421 316 6,642 76 165 34 5,908 Tax charge credit recognised in the income statement 9 60 108 295 60 7 185 Tax charge credit recognised in equity 5022 72 Acquisitions and disposals 140 140 Translation adjustments 10 43 15 124 21 3 14 96 At 31 December 2011 203 368 439 6,953 5 140 13 6,065 Tax charge credit recognised in the income statement 156 55 63 182 34 29 81 Tax credit recognised in equity 40 31 9 Disposals 38 38 Translation adjustments 12 9 1 5 3 11 1 At 31 December 2012 371 362 501 7,102 29 174 27 6,098 Deferred tax assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at year end exchange rates.
In the disclosure of 2011 tax balances, US$141 million has been re-classified from non-current deferred tax liabilities to current corporation tax liabilities as at 1 January 2011 to more appropriately reflect the expected settlement of the underlying tax provision.
This has had no impact on the 2011 income statement.
Tax audits The Group periodically assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available.
For those matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group record its best estimate of these tax liabilities, including related interest charges.
Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax laws.
Whilst management believes they have adequately provided for the probable outcome of these matters, future results may include favourable or unfavourable adjustments to these estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made, or resolved, or when the statute of limitation lapses.
The final outcome of tax examinations may result in a materially different outcome than estimated in the tax liabilities.
com 97 Notes to the financial statements continued 12.
Earnings per share 2012 2011 US$m Profit before exceptional items attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 3,652 5,785 Exceptional items 2,472 72 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 1,180 5,713 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent for diluted earnings per share 1,180 5,713 Weighted average number of shares 000s excluding own shares: For basic earnings per share 2,950,181 2,931,448 Effect of dilution: Share-based payments 21,316 37,315 For diluted earnings per share 2,971,497 2,968,763 Basic earnings per share US$ basic before exceptional items 1.24 1.97 exceptional items 0.84 0.02 0.40 1.95 Diluted earnings per share US$ before exceptional items 1.23 1.95 exceptional items 0.83 0.02 0.40 1.93 Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the Parent Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the year, excluding own shares.
Adjustments are made before exceptional items and after exceptional items as outlined above, to present a meaningful basis for analysis.
Diluted earnings per share is based on basic earnings per share adjusted for the potential dilution if director and employee free shares and share options are exercised.
Dividends paid and proposed 2012 2011 US$m Declared and paid during the year : Final dividend for 2011 27.0 cents per ordinary share 2010 20.0 cents per ordinary share 797 586 Interim dividend for 2012 14.0 cents per ordinary share 2011 13.0 cents per ordinary share 413 381 1,210 967 Proposed for approval at the Annual General Meeting not recognised as a liability as at 31 December : Final dividend for 2012 31.5 cents per ordinary share 2011 27.0 cents per ordinary share 933 797 This only includes amounts paid to the parent equity holders and not non-controlling interest holders.
Dividends declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012 will be paid on 7 June 2013.
The 2012 interim dividend was paid on 13 September 2012.
As stated in note 26, the right to receive dividends in respect of own shares held in the ESOP and by the ECMP have been waived.
The Group has a 20.2% interest in the service organisation, Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited, acquired in a business combination, through which the shareholders gain access to export markets enabling them to realise higher coal sales prices than in the domestic market.
The export rights are amortised based on a units-of-production method.
The Group previously acquired the right to market to third parties various leading technologies for the mining, mineral processing and metals extraction industries, in a business combination.
The technology patents are amortised over their useful economic lives of 20 years to June 2023.
The Group previously acquired hydroelectricity rights which will be amortised over the expected life of the operation, currently estimated as being 40 years, following commissioning.
Refer to note 8 for partial disposal of Energia Austral and related hydroelectricity rights during 2012.
A long-term feed contract is being amortised over an eight-year period.
Other intangible assets mainly comprise computer software and software development that are being amortised over their useful economic lives of between three to five years.
Impairment testing Goodwill Goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units CGUs or groups of CGUs no larger than the reportable segments that are expected to benefit from the related acquisitions.
A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
This is usually considered a single operation or in some cases a number of operations that are in close geographical proximity or share operational efficiencies.
The carrying values of goodwill grouped by CGU are as follows: 2012 2011 US$m Alloys Africa 17 40 Copper Americas 1,185 1,185 Zinc Lead 1,546 1,546 Zinc Lead Europe 199 195 2,947 2,966 The following goodwill balances result from the requirement on an acquisition to recognise a deferred tax liability, calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities and their tax bases.
For the purposes of testing this goodwill for impairment, any of the related deferred tax liabilities recognised on acquisition that remain at balance date are treated as part of the relevant CGU or group of CGUs.
com 99 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Impairment testing continued 2012 2011 US$m Coal Australia 364 357 Coal Americas North 22 22 Coal Americas South 464 464 Copper Americas South 1,407 1,445 Copper Australasia 126 126 Iron Ore Africa 151 149 Nickel Americas South 119 119 Nickel Africa 78 78 Nickel Australasia 37 37 Alloys Africa 35 328 Zinc Lead Americas North 88 244 Zinc Lead Americas South 160 160 3,051 3,529 5,998 6,495 Net of impairment losses set out below.
The Group performs goodwill impairment testing on an annual basis and at the reporting date if there are indicators of impairment.
The most recent test was undertaken at 31 October 2012 and, for any assets where additional indicators of impairment were identified in November or December, testing was updated at 31 December 2012.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU or reportable segment is compared with its recoverable amount.
The goodwill impairment expense recognised as an exceptional item in the income statement refer to note 10 relates to the following: Impairment method 2012 2011 US$m Alloys Africa FVLCS 293 Zinc Lead Americas North FVLCS 157 450 For the purpose of goodwill impairment testing in 2011 and 2012, recoverable amounts were determined based on fair value less costs to sell FVLCS calculations, with the exception of Coal Australia goodwill and Coal Americas South goodwill, which were based on value-in-use VIU calculations.
Where observable market prices are not available, FVLCS was calculated using a discounted cash flow methodology taking account of assumptions that would be made by market participants.
VIU is based on the cash flows expected to be generated from mines, smelting and refining operations included within the CGUs or reportable segments.
Cash flows are projected for periods up to the date that mining and refining are expected to cease, based on managements expectations at the time of completing the testing.
This date depends on a number of variables, including recoverable reserves and resources, the forecast selling prices for such production and the treatment charges received from the refining operations.
Cash flows have been projected for a maximum of 48 years 2011: 45 years.
Key assumptions The key assumptions used in the VIU calculations and in determining the FVLCS are: Recoverable reserves and resources Economically recoverable reserves and resources represent managements expectations at the time of completing the impairment testing, based on reserves and resource statements and exploration and evaluation work undertaken by appropriately qualified persons.
A summary of the mineral resources and ore reserves is published on the Xstrata plc website.
Commodity prices Long-term commodity prices and treatment charges are determined by reference to external market forecasts.
Specific prices are determined using information available in the market after considering the nature of the commodity produced and long-term market expectations.
Forecast prices vary in accordance with the year the sale is expected to occur.
The commodity prices used in the impairment review are management estimates and are within the range of the available analyst forecasts at 31 October 2012 and 31 December 2012.
The attributable value to reserves and resources using the FVLCS method is based on managements best estimates using market-based forecasts and information available in the market.
com Operating costs Operating cost assumptions are based on managements best estimate at the date of impairment testing of the costs to be incurred.
Costs are determined after considering current operating costs, future cost expectations and the nature and location of the operation.
Treatment charges receivable by smelting and refining operations Smelting and refining treatment charges vary in accordance with the commodity prices and time of processing.
Capital expenditure Future capital expenditure is based on managements best estimate of required future capital requirements, which generally is for the extraction of existing reserves and resources.
It has been determined by taking into account all committed and anticipated capital expenditure adjusted for future cost estimates.
Discount rates The discount rates that have been used are outlined below.
In the case of FVLCS they represent real after-tax rates, whereas the VIU discount rates represent real pre-tax rates.
These rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital specific to each CGU or reportable segment and the currency of the cash flows generated.
The weighted average cost of capital reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money, equity market volatility and the risks specific to the CGU or reportable segment for which cash flows have not already been adjusted.
These rates were calculated with reference to market information from third-party advisers.
Discount rate Impairment method 2012 2011 Copper Americas FVLCS 7% 11% 7% 11% Zinc Lead FVLCS 7% 7% Foreign exchange rates In assessing the FVLCS another key assumption that would be considered by market participants is foreign exchange rates.
The rates that have been utilised are based on external market information.
Specific rates are determined from information available in the market after considering long-term market expectations and the countries in which the Group operates.
Key assumptions used for goodwill impairment testing A summary of the mineral resources and ore reserves related to the goodwill balances, released in December 2012, is summarised as follows: Reserves Resources Proved Probable Measured Indicated Inferred Million tonnes Copper Americas 1,311 4,199 2,785 9,290 9,590 Zinc Lead 129 111 312 293 342 A summary of the mineral resources and ore reserves related to the goodwill balances, released in December 2011, is summarised as follows: Reserves Resources Proved Probable Measured Indicated Inferred Million tonnes Copper Americas 1,232 3,825 2,452 7,185 8,044 Zinc Lead 88 97 323 287 319 Commodity prices commodity price forecasts were based on external market consensus information.
The copper prices ranged from US$2.89 per pound to US$3.67 per pound 2011 US$2.62 per pound to US$3.30 per pound, US$0.96 per pound to US$1.03 per pound 2011 US$0.90 per pound to US$0.98 per pound for zinc and US$0.97 per pound to US$1.03 per pound 2011 US$0.92 per pound to US$0.93 per pound for lead, varying in accordance with the year the sale was expected to occur.
Foreign exchange rates foreign exchange rates used were based on external market consensus information.
