SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registered office Electronic shareholder communications 6 Carlton Gardens An increasing number of shareholders receive communications London SW1Y 5AD from the Company using e-mail and web-based communications.
United Kingdom The use of electronic communications, rather than printed paper Telephone: 44 0 1252 373232 documents, helps us reduce the environmental impact of our Company website: www.
com activities and assists us in managing our costs.
Registered in England and Wales, No.
1470151 We regularly consult with shareholders to check how they wish to receive information from us.
Shareholders may receive Registrars electronic communications in one of two ways: Equiniti Limited 0140 Aspect House Via e-mail This option is available through Shareview.
Spencer Road Shareholders receive an e-mail notification when a new Lancing document is made available, which contains a link to the West Sussex BN99 6DA document.
United Kingdom Via our website Shareholders receive a notification by post If you have any queries regarding your shareholding or need to when a new document is made available.
notify any changes to your personal details, please contact A shareholder is taken to have agreed to website Equiniti.
communications if a response to a consultation has not been Equinitis website https: help.
Any document or information required to be sent to comprehensive set of answers to many frequently asked shareholders is made available on the Companys website and a questions relating to managing a shareholding.
If you cannot notification of availability is sent.
Shareholders who receive such find the answer to your question, there is an online e-mail form, a notification are entitled to request a hard copy of the which helps to ensure your question is directed to the most document at any time and may also change the way they receive appropriate team for a response.
Alternatively, you can call the communications at any time by contacting Equiniti.
BAE Systems Helpline on 0871 384 2044 or, from outside the Notwithstanding any election, the Company may, at its sole and UK, 44 121 415 7058. absolute discretion, send any notification or information to Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are shareholders in hard copy form.
open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Dividend reinvestment plan Shareview online access to your shareholding The Company offers holders of its ordinary shares the option to Shareview is a free portfolio service offered by Equiniti to elect to have their dividend reinvested in shares purchased in the investors which gives shareholders online access to more market instead of cash.
To make this election, please request a information on their investments, including balance movements, dividend reinvestment plan mandate from our registrars: indicative share prices and information on recent payments.
It Equiniti Financial Services Limited can also be used to sign up to receive all shareholder Aspect House communications electronically and, once registered, arrange for Spencer Road dividends to be mandated or update your address.
Lancing To take advantage of Shareview, register online at West Sussex BN99 6DA www.
co. uk United Kingdom Click on Register and follow the four easy steps.
Alternatively: Details of software and equipment requirements are given on call the BAE Systems Helpline on 0871 384 2044 44 121 the website.
415 7058 from outside the UK : or Dividend mandate a copy of the terms and conditions of the dividend Over the past two years, Equiniti has processed over 17,000 reinvestment plan, along with the mandate form, can be dividend bank mandates.
Shareholders with a dividend bank downloaded from our website.
mandate receive their dividend in their bank account on the payment date and receive one consolidated tax voucher for Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are payments made within the tax year.
This helps us save on open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
ShareGift If you have a UK bank or building society account and would like ShareGift, the share donation charity registered charity number to apply a bank mandate to your shareholding, a mandate form 1052686, accepts donations of small parcels of shares which can be obtained from our website or by contacting Equiniti.
may be uneconomic to sell.
Details of the scheme are available Alternatively, bank details can be submitted in writing to Equiniti, from ShareGift at www.
org or by telephone on electronically via Shareview or, if the shareholding is held in a 020 7930 3737. sole name, Equiniti can take instructions over the telephone.
Share price information Do you have an overseas bank account?
Instead of waiting for a The middle market price of the Companys ordinary shares on sterling cheque to arrive by post, why not take advantage of 31 December 2012 was 336.9p and the range during the year Equinitis overseas payments service?
Equiniti can arrange was 270.9p to 363.6p.
payment for over 90 countries worldwide.
It normally costs less than paying in a sterling cheque and only takes a few days for the money to arrive into the account after the dividend payment date.
For more information on the terms and conditions of this service, and to obtain the appropriate mandate form, visit the Shareview website www.
com overseas or contact Equiniti.
186 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Shareholder information American Depositary Receipts dealing with various matters on behalf of the Company.
For BAE Systems plc American Depositary Receipts ADRs are traded example the purchase of carbon credits, or seeking feedback on on the Over The Counter OTC market under the symbol BAESY.
One ADR represents four BAE Systems plc ordinary shares.
The tactics employed by these criminals, who can be very JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. is the depositary.
persistent and extremely persuasive, are constantly changing.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary and remain If you should have any queries, please contact: vigilant at all times about any unsolicited telephone calls.
JPMorgan Chase & Co Authorised firms are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with PO Box 64504 investment opportunities and a legitimate company is unlikely to St Paul use harassment, high-pressure sales tactics, or long and MN 55164-0504 persistent phone calls, to get you to invest.
USA The Financial Services Authoritys FSA website contains Email: jpmorgan.
com information about many of the most common and latest scams: www.
uk consumerinformation scamsandswindles Telephone number for general queries: 800 990 1135 If you do receive any such unsolicited telephone calls or Telephone number from outside the US: 1 651 453 2128 investment advice: Warning to shareholders boiler room fraud and other Make sure you get the correct name of the person and investment scams organisation.
The Company has been alerted to the fact that a number of shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls from Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before fraudsters purporting to either represent BAE Systems in an getting involved by visiting www.
Contact alleged secret takeover of another company, or represent the firm using the details on the register many fraudsters another company which is allegedly taking control of pretend to be from a legitimate firm, but are in fact from a BAE Systems.
These fraudsters are offering to buy shares in cloned firm.
BAE Systems at inflated prices, which generally entail a request Report the matter via the FSAs Consumer Helpline on 0845 for the shareholder to sign non-disclosure agreements, provide 606 1234 or by visiting bank details, make payment or release share certificates.
uk consumerinformation scamsandswindles Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company If the calls persist, hang up.
endorses will be included in Company mailings.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to We have also been made aware of shareholders who have receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation received telephone calls from bogus companies purporting to be Scheme.
