Governance The Company, BAESystems, Inc. BAESystems Holdings They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are Limited and BAESystems Holdings Inc. entered into a Special reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, and Security Agreement dated 8 November 2010 with the US to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Department of Defense regarding the management of Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also BAESystems, Inc. in order to comply with the US governments responsible for preparing a directors report, directors national security requirements.
In the event of a change of remuneration report and corporate governance statement that control of the Company, the Agreement may be terminated or comply with that law and those regulations.
altered by the US Department of Defense.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of In July 2009, BVT Surface Fleet Limited now BAESystems the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Surface Ships Limited and the UK MoD entered into a definitive website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and Terms of Business Agreement ToBA which sets out a 15-year dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in partnering arrangement, including lead roles for the BVT other jurisdictions.
business on defined surface shipbuilding and support programmes.
Where the MoD considers that a proposed Change Statement of disclosure of information to auditors in Control of BAESystems Surface Ships Limited would be The directors who held office at the date of approval of this contrary to the defence, national security or national interest of Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there the UK, then the Change in Control shall not proceed until is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors agreement with the MoD is established.
In the event that there is are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he she a Change in Control of BAESystems Surface Ships Limited ought to have taken to make himself herself aware of any relevant notwithstanding the objection of the MoD on such grounds, the audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are MoD shall be entitled to terminate the ToBA immediately without aware of that information.
On behalf of the Board In addition, the Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of which options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change of control of the Company in accordance David Parkes with the rules of the plans.
Company Secretary 20 February 2013 Auditors KPMG Audit Plc, the auditors for the Company, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution proposing their Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the re-appointment will be put to the AGM.
Annual Report and financial statements Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Each of the directors listed below confirms that to the best of their Report and financial statements knowledge: The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the with applicable law and regulations.
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent Company, and the undertakings included in the consolidation company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that taken as a whole: and law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law, and have elected and performance of the business, and the position of the to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation with UK accounting standards and applicable law UK Generally taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks Accepted Accounting Practice.
and uncertainties that they face.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial In addition, each of the directors considers that the Annual Report, statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company, and of the information necessary for shareholders to assess the their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: Dick Olver Chairman select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Ian King Chief Executive consistently: Linda Hudson President and Chief Executive Officer of BAESystems, Inc. make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Peter Lynas Group Finance Director for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been Paul Anderson Non-executive director prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Harriet Green Non-executive director for the parent company financial statements, state whether Lee McIntire Non-executive director applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject Sir Peter Mason Non-executive director to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Paula Rosput Reynolds Non-executive director company financial statements: and Nick Rose Non-executive director prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Carl Symon Non-executive director unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
On behalf of the Board The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys Dick Olver transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Chairman financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure 20 February 2013 that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In this section: Index to the accounts 120 Consolidated income statement 122 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 123 Notes to the Group accounts income statement 124 Consolidated cash flow statement 135 Notes to the Group accounts cash flow statement 136 Consolidated balance sheet 138 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 139 Notes to the Group accounts balance sheet 140 Notes to the Group accounts other information 163 Company balance sheet 176 Notes to the Company accounts 177 Independent auditors report 183 Five-year summary 184 Shareholder information 186 188 Glossary This section contains the statutory financial information for the Group and the Company, together with important information for shareholders.
118 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Constructing two new aircraft carriers for the Royal Navy Two aircraft carriers, HMS Queen Elizabeth and HMS Prince of Wales, are being delivered by the Aircraft Carrier Alliance.
BAESystems has an overarching role in managing the programme, as well as playing a central role in the design and build of the ships.
Each 65,000 tonne aircraft carrier will provide the armed forces with a four acre military operating base which can be deployed worldwide.
The vessels will be versatile enough to be used for operations ranging from supporting war efforts to providing humanitarian aid and disaster relief.
Assembly of the completed hull sections of the first carrier is being undertaken at Rosyth.
