Shareholder Information Shareholder Information Since ShareGift was launched, over 16m Financial calendar has been given to more than 1,800 charities.
2013 The relevant share transfer form may be 24 April Ex-dividend date for final 2012 ordinary dividend obtained from the Registrars.
For more 26 April Final 2012 ordinary dividend record date information visit www.
16 May Annual General Meeting 22 May Ex-dividend date for July 2013 preference dividend Share dealing services 24 May July 2013 preference dividend record date 5 June Final date for receipt of DRIP mandate forms see below Capita Share Dealing Services a trading 1 July Preference dividend payable name of Capita IRG Trustees Limited 5 July Final 2012 ordinary dividend payable provide a telephone and online share 14 August Announcement of 2013 half-year results dealing service for UK and EEA resident 6 December Interim 2013 ordinary dividend payable shareholders.
To use this service, telephone: 0871 664 0364 from the UK Provisional dates.
calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras and 44 20 3367 2686 from 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, UK time.
Alternatively, Registrars outside the UK Monday to Friday 8.00 am you can log on to www.
Alternatively, you All administrative enquiries relating to shares.
com and click on the link for can log on to www.
shareholdings and requests to receive International Payment Service.
corporate documents by email should, Capita IRG Trustees Limited is inthe first instance, be directed to the authorisedand regulated by the Financial Shareholder information on Companys Registrars and clearly state Services Authority.
the internet and electronic your registered address and, if available, your shareholder reference number.
communications London Stock Exchange Codes Please write to: Our website www.
com The London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial Capita Registrars, The Registry, provides a range of information about the List SEDOL codes are: Ordinary shares: 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent Company, our people and businesses and 0096162.
BR3 4TU, Telephone: 0871 664 0300 our policies on corporate governance and The London Stock Exchange ticker from the UK calls cost 10p per minute corporate responsibility.
It should be codes are: Ordinary shares: BBY.
plus network extras and 44 20 8639 regarded as your first point of reference Preference shares: BBYB.
3399 from outside the UK Monday to for information on any of these matters.
The share price can also be found there.
Capital gains tax CGT Alternatively, you can email: In conjunction with Capita Registrars, you ssd@capitaregistrars.
For CGT purposes the market value on can create a Share Portal account, through 31March 1982 of Balfour Beatty plcs They can help you to: check your which you will be able to access the full ordinary shares of 50p each was 267.6p shareholding: register a change of address range of online shareholder services, per share.
This has been adjusted for the or name: obtain a replacement dividend including the ability to: view your holdings 1 for 5 rights issue in June 1992, the 2 for cheque or tax voucher: record the death and indicative share price and valuation: 11 rights issue in September 1996 and the of a shareholder.
view movements on your holdings and 3 for 7 rights issue in October 2009 and your dividend payment history: register a assumes that all rights have been taken up.
dividend mandate to have your dividends Dividends and dividend paid directly into your bank account: reinvestment plan Consolidated tax vouchers change your registered address: sign up Dividends may be paid directly into your From and including the July 2013 toreceive e-communications or access bank or building society account through dividend payments, Balfour Beatty will the online proxy voting facility: download the Bankers Automated Clearing System provide a consolidated tax voucher.
This and print shareholder forms.
The Registrars can provide will in future be issued annually to all The Share Portal is easy to use.
A dividend shareholders who have their dividends Please visit www.
reinvestment plan DRIP is offered which paid direct to their bank accounts.
Alternatively, you can email: allows holders of ordinary shares would prefer to receive a tax voucher at shareportal@capita.
to reinvest their cash dividends in the each dividend payment date rather than Companys shares through a specially annually, please contact the Registrars.
Gifting shares to your family arranged share dealing service.
Full details Acopy of the consolidated tax voucher of the DRIP and its charges, together may be downloaded from the Share Portal or to charity with mandate forms, are available at atwww.
To transfer shares to another member www.
ofyour family as a gift, please ask the Enquiries Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer International payment service Enquiries relating to Balfour Beattys form.
Alternatively, if you only have a small Shareholders outside the UK may elect results, business and financial position number of shares whose value makes it toreceive dividends paid direct into their should be made in writing to the uneconomic to sell them, you may wish overseas bank account, or by currency Corporate Communications Department toconsider donating them to the share draft, instead of by sterling cheque.
For at the address shown below or by email donation charity ShareGift registered charity further information, contact the Companys toinfo@balfourbeatty.
1052686, whose work Balfour Beatty Registrars on 44 20 8639 3405 from supports.
Any shares that you donate to Balfour Beatty plc Registered Ofce: outside the UK or 0871 664 0385 from the ShareGift will be aggregated, sold when 130Wilton Road, London SW1V 1LQ UK calls cost 10p per minute plus network possible, and the proceeds will be donated Registered in England Number 395826 extras.
Lines are open Monday to Friday to a wide range of other UK charities.
164 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Forward-looking statements This document may include certain forward-looking statements, beliefs or opinions, including statements with respect to Balfour Beatty plcs business, financial condition and results of operations.
These forwardlooking statements can be identied by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, plans, anticipates, targets, aims, continues, expects, intends, hopes, may, will, would, could orshould or in each case, their negative or other various or comparable terminology.
These statements are made by the Balfour Beatty plc Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the date of this report and reect the Balfour Beatty plc Directors beliefs and expectations.
By their nature these statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
A number of factors could cause actual results and developments todiffer materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, developments in the global economy, changes in UK and US government policies, spending and procurement methodologies, failure in Balfour Beattys health, safety or environmental policies and those factors set out under managing risk on pages 58 to 61 of this document.
No representation or warranty is made that any of these statements or forecasts will come to pass or that any forecast results will be achieved.
Forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this document and Balfour Beatty plc and its advisers expressly disclaim any obligations or undertaking to release anyupdate of, or revisions to, any forward-looking statements in this document.
No statement in thedocument is intended to be, or intended to be construed as, a profit forecast orto be interpreted to mean that earnings per Balfour Beatty plc share for the current or future financial years will necessarily match or exceed the historical earnings per Balfour Beatty plc share.
As a result, you are cautioned not to place any undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
Designed and produced by CON R AN DES I GN GROUP Board photography by Andy Wilson Printed in England by Pureprint The paper used in the report contains 100% recycled content, ofwhich 100% is fide-inked post-consumer waste.
All of the pulp isbleached usingan elemental chlorine free process ECF.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint using its and environmental printing technology, with vegetable inks usedthroughout.
Boththe manufacturing mill and printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are ForestStewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certied.
com Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc
