GLOSSARY Capco Interest rate swap Capco represents Capital & Counties Properties PLC also referred A derivative financial instrument enabling parties to exchange to as the Company and all its subsidiary companies, together interest rate obligations for a predetermined period.
These are referred to as the Group.
used by the Group to convert floating rate debt to fixed rates.
CLSA Initial yield EPRA Conditional Land Sale Agreement, an agreement with LBHF Annualised net rent after deduction of revenue costs such as head relating to its land in the ECOA.
rent, running void, service charge after shortfalls and empty rates on investment properties expressed as a percentage of the gross Diluted figures market value before deduction of theoretical acquisition costs, Reported amounts adjusted to include the effects of potential consistent with EPRAs net initial yield.
shares issuable under employee incentive arrangements.
IPD ECOA Investment Property Databank Ltd, producer of an independent The Earls Court and West Kensington Opportunity Area.
EPRA IRR European Public Real Estate Association, the publisher of Best Internal Rate of Return.
Practice Recommendations intended to make financial statements of public real estate companies in Europe clearer, more transparent and ITZA comparable.
In Terms of Zone A. ITZA is a method of calculating the floor area of a retail unit with relation to the frontage and first 20 feet 6.1 EPRA adjusted, diluted NAV metres of depth and the value relating to that floor area.
The net assets as at the end of the year including the excess of the fair value of trading property over its cost and excluding the fair value Kwok Family Interests KFI of financial instruments, deferred taxation on revaluations and Joint venture partner in the Seagrave Road project.
diluting for the effect of those shares potentially issuable under LBHF employee share schemes divided by the diluted number of shares The London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham.
LIBOR EPRA adjusted, diluted NNNAV London Interbank Offer Rate.
EPRA diluted NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of derivatives and to include deferred taxation on revaluations.
Like-for-like properties Investment properties which have been owned throughout both EPRA adjusted earnings per share periods without significant capital expenditure in either period, Profit for the year excluding gains or losses on the revaluation so income can be compared on a like-for-like basis.
For the purposes and sale of investment and development property, write down on of comparison of capital values, this will also include assets owned trading property, changes in fair value of financial instruments and at the previous balance sheet date but not necessarily throughout the associated close-out costs and the related taxation on these items prior period.
divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Loan-to-value LTV LTV is the ratio of attributable net debt to the book value of property.
ERV estimated rental value The external valuers estimate of the Groups share of the current Net Debt annual market rent of all lettable space net of any non-recoverable Total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
charges, before bad debt provision and adjustments required by Net rental income NRI International Financial Reporting Standards regarding tenant The Groups share of gross rental income less ground rents, payable lease incentives.
service charge expenses and other non-recoverable charges, having F&B taken due account of bad debt provisions and adjustments to comply Food and Beverage.
with International Financial Reporting Standards regarding tenant lease incentives.
GCP The Great Capital Partnership, a 50:50 joint venture with GPE.
Nominal equivalent yield Effective annual yield to a purchaser on the gross market value, GPE assuming rent is receivable annually in arrears, and that the property Great Portland Estates plc.
The Groups joint venture partner in becomes fully occupied and that all rents revert to the current market The Great Capital Partnership.
level ERV at the next review date or lease expiry.
Gross income Occupancy rate EPRA The Groups share of passing rent plus sundry non-leased income.
The ERV of let and under offer units expressed as a percentage of the Interest rate cap ERV of let and under offer units plus ERV of un-let units, excluding A derivative in which the buyer receives payments at the end of each units under development.
period in which the interest rate exceeds the agreed strike price.
Interest rate collar A combination of a purchase of an interest rate cap and a sale of an interest rate floor to create a range for interest rate fluctuations between the cap and floor strike prices to have greater certainty on the floating rate payable by the Group.
130 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GOVERN OUR BUSINESS OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Passing rent Weighted average unexpired lease term The Groups share of contracted annual rents receivable at the The unexpired lease term to lease expiry weighted by ERV for balance sheet date.
This takes no account of accounting adjustments each lease.
made in respect of rent-free periods or tenant incentives, the Zone A reclassification of certain lease payments as finance charges or A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail space any irrecoverable costs and expenses, and does not include excess by dividing it in to zones parallel with the main frontage.
The most turnover rent, additional rent in respect of unsettled rent reviews valuable zone, Zone A, falls within a 6m depth of the shop frontage.
or sundry income such as from car parks etc.
Contracted annual Each successive zone is valued at half the rate of the zone in front rents in respect of tenants in administration are excluded.
The blend is referred to as being ITZA In Terms of Zone A.
Pro forma The pro forma basis as outlined on page 140 of the Groups prospectus dated 12 March 2010.
RBKC The Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea.
REIT Real Estate Investment Trust.
SARB South African Reserve Bank Section 34A Housing Act 1985 An amendment to the 1985 Act enabling an organised group of tenants to require a local authority to transfer their homes to a housing association or similar body registered with the Tenant Services Authority the social housing regulator, or, to take over responsibility for managing the housing services provided by their local authority landlord.
The legislation only applies to social rented tenants of local authorities.
It does not apply to tenants of housing associations even where the ultimate owner may be a local authority.
Section 34A requires implementation by regulations yet to come into effect.
These regulations will be enacted by the Department of Communities and Local Government.
No regulations have yet been introduced.
Tenant or lease incentives Any incentives offered to tenants to enter into a lease.
Typically incentives are in the form of an initial rent-free period and or a cash contribution to fit-out the premises.
Under International Financial Reporting Standards the value of incentives granted to tenants is amortised through the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Total property return Capital growth including gains and losses on disposals plus rent received less associated costs, including ground rent.
Total return The growth in EPRA adjusted, diluted NAV per share plus dividends per share during the period.
Total shareholder return The increase in the price of an ordinary share plus dividends during the period assuming re-investment in ordinary shares.
Underlying earnings Profit for the year excluding impairment charges, net valuation gains losses including profits losses on disposals, net refinancing charges and swap termination costs.
COM 131 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registrars Electronic communication All enquiries concerning shares or shareholdings, including Capco has adopted electronic communications.
This means notification of change of address, queries regarding loss of a share that shareholders will receive documents from the Company certificate and dividend payments should be addressed to: electronically unless they elect to receive hard copies.
For shareholders registered in the UK: All of the Groups annual results, interim results and interim Capita Registrars management statements will be published on the Companys The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU website www.
If you are a shareholder Telephone: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus who receives hard copies of documents and you wish to elect network extras: lines are open 9.00 am 5.30 pm to receive electronic communications, please contact the Monday Friday appropriate registrar.
Telephone outside UK: 44 0 208 639 3399 outside UK Shareholders may revoke an election to receive electronic Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com communications at any time.
com ShareGift For shareholders registered in South Africa: ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd who may wish to dispose of a small quantity of shares where the 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 market value makes it uneconomical to sell on a commission basis.
South Africa Further information can be found on its website www.
org Postal address: or by calling them on 020 7930 3737.
PO Box 61051 Marshalltown 2107, South Africa Odd-lot Offer Telephone: 27 86 110 0933 During 2012, the Company undertook an odd-lot offer to facilitate www.
com a reduction in the number of ordinary shareholders holding fewer than 250 ordinary shares in a fair and equitable manner the Odd-lot Payment of dividends Offer.
The Odd-lot Offer was launched in November 2012 and, If you are a shareholder and wish to have your dividends paid unless an election to keep shares was made, Odd-lot Holders shares directly into a bank or building society, please complete a were repurchased by the Company on 12 December 2012. mandate form which is available from the appropriate registrar.
Further information on the Odd-lot Offer can be found on the Share price information Companys website www.
The latest information on the Capital & Counties Properties PLC share price is available on the Companys website www.
The shares are traded on the LSE with LSE code CAPC, ISIN GBOOB62G9D36.
The shares are traded on the JSE under the abbreviated name CAPCO and JSE code CCO.
Web-based enquiry service for shareholders Shareholders registered in the UK can register at www.
com to access a range of online services including: Online proxy voting Electing to receive shareholder communications electronically Viewing your holding balance, indicative share price and valuation Viewing any transaction on your holding including any dividend payments you have received Updating your address details or registering a mandate to have your dividends paid directly to your bank account Accessing a wide range of shareholder information, including downloadable forms.
To register to use this service, you will need your investor code IVC, which can be found on your share certificate s. Share dealing services The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, building societies and stockbrokers.
Additionally, UK shareholders may trade their shares using the online and telephone dealing service that Capita Registrars provide.
To use this service, shareholders should contact Capita: within the UK 0871 664 0364 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open 8.00 am 4.30 pm Monday to Friday : from Ireland: 1 890 946 375: or from outside UK: 44 20 3367 2686 or you can log on to www.
132 Printed by Park Communications on FSC certi ed paper.
Park is an EMAS certi ed CarbonNeutral company and its Environmental Management System is certi ed to ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% ofanywaste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Heaven 42 and Munken Polar: both papers contain 100% virgin bre sourced from wellmanaged, sustainable, FSC certi ed forests.
The pulp is bleached using both elemental chlorine free ECF and totally chlorine free TCF processes.
Design and production by Black Sun Plc www.
com This Report includes statements that are forward-looking in nature.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Capital & Counties Properties PLC to be materially diff erent from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Any information contained in this Report on the price at which shares or other securities in Capital & Counties PropertiesPLC have been bought or sold in the past, or on the yield on such shares or other securities, should not be relied upon asaguideto future performance.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC 15 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 4QZ Telephone 44 0 20 3214 9150 feedback@capitalandcounties.
