Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Significant Accounting Policies Daejan Holdings PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2012 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issuance on 20 July 2012. a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP and these are presented on pages 49 to 52. b Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, the Companys functional currency, rounded to the nearest thousand.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: investment property, derivative financial instruments, fixed rate loans and borrowings and current asset investments.
The accounting policies set out in this Note 1 have been applied consistently throughout the Group to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations became effective for the year ended 31 March 2012, but none of these had a material effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
The Group has not adopted early any standard, amendment or interpretation.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been announced but are not yet effective for the year ended 31 March 2012.
None of these are expected to have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, with the exception of the amendment to IAS 12 Income Taxes.
This amendment is expected to result in the Group recognising the benefit of indexation in the calculation of its deferred tax liability relating to investment property.
The amendment has been issued but has not yet been endorsed by the EU and its effect on the Group financial statements has not yet been quantified.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as explained in the Corporate Governance section on pages 20 and 21.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the events or amounts involved, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of complexity, judgement or estimation are set out in Note 1 u below.
