Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued n Net rental income Net rental income comprises rent and service charges receivable less applicable provisions and costs associated with the properties.
Rental income from investment property leased out under operating leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income.
Service charge income is recognised as the services are provided.
Net rental income is stated net of recoverable VAT.
The cost of repairs is written off to the income statement in the year in which the expenditure occurred.
Lease payments under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
o Dividend income Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date the entitys right to receive payments is established which, in the case of quoted securities, is the ex-dividend date.
p Taxation Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
q Segmental reporting The Company has identified its operating segments on the basis of those components of the Group which engage in business activities from which they may earn revenues and incur expenses and for which discrete financial information is available and regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to allocate resources and assess performance.
The Company has determined the Chief Operating Decision Maker to be the Board of Directors.
r Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than investment property see Note 1 h and deferred tax assets see Note 1 p, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists the assets recoverable amount is estimated and an impairment loss recognised whenever the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and its value-inuse.
The value-in-use is determined as the net present value of the future cash flows expected to be Page 32
