STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Financial statements and accounting records applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, give a true and fair The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and viewof the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss Accounts including the Directors Remuneration report and the financial oftheCompany and of the Group taken as a whole: and statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
b the management report contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements ofthe Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a foreach financial year.
The Directors are required by the International description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Accounting Standards Regulation the IAS Regulation to prepare theGroup financial statements under International Financial Reporting The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed on pages Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS and have 40and 41. alsoelected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
The financial statements are also required by law By order of the Board to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are Mark Clare David Thomas satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
11 September 2012 11 September 2012 International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, The Report of the Directors from pages 2 to 71 inclusive was approved financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful by the Board on 11 September 2012 and is signed on its behalf by: representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Tom Keevil Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL AND COMPANY SECRETARY offinancial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation 11 September 2012 will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand theimpact of particular transactions, other events and conditions onthe entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a goingconcern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of thecorporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation inother jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement The Directors confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge: a the Group and Parent Company financial statements in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, Standing Interpretation Committee interpretations as adopted and endorsed by the European Union, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71
