ACCOUNTING POLICIES Year ended 30 June 2012 On 6 September 2012, the Group gave voluntary notice to cancel the 90m RCF with effect from 12 September 2012, which reduces the Basis of preparation Groups total committed facilities and private placement notes to These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 1,001m.
The committed facilities and private placement notes now International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the inplace provide appropriate headroom above our current forecast International Accounting Standards Board IASB, International Financial debtrequirements.
Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and Standing Interpretations Committee SIC interpretations as adopted Accordingly, after making enquiries, the Directors have formed a and endorsed by the European Union EU and with those parts of the judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being at International Accounting Standards Regulation.
The financial statements least twelve months from the date of these financial statements.
For this have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the the revaluation of available for sale financial assets, derivative financial consolidated financial statements.
A summary of the more significant Group accounting policies is set out below.
Adoption of new and revised standards In the year ended 30 June 2012, the Group has adopted: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and Amendment to IFRS7 Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets, assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities Amendment to IFRIC14 Prepayment of a Minimum Funding atthe date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of Requirement, IAS24 Revised Related Party Transactions and revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these theAnnual Improvements to IFRS 2010 tranche.
estimates are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amounts, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The most The adoption of these standards, interpretations and amendments significant estimates made by the Directors in these financial statements hasnot had any impact upon the profit or net assets of the Group are set out in Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of ineither the current year or comparative year and has not required Estimation Uncertainty.
Going concern Basis of consolidation In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial The Group financial statements include the results of Barratt Developments statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group PLC the Company, incorporated in the UK, andall its subsidiary can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
undertakings made up to 30 June.
The financial statements of subsidiary undertakings are consolidated from the date when control passes to the The Groups business activities, together with factors which the Directors Group using the purchase method of accounting and up to the date consider are likely to affect its future development, financial performance control ceases.
All transactions with subsidiaries and intercompany profits and financial position are set out in the Group Chief Executives review or losses are eliminated on consolidation.
on pages 8 to 15 and the Business review on pages 19 to 39.
The material financial and operational risks and uncertainties that may impact Business combinations the Groups performance and their mitigation are outlined on pages 36 All of the subsidiaries identifiable assets and liabilities, including to 39 and financial risks including liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk contingent liabilities, existing at the date of acquisition are recorded and capital risk are outlined in note 25 to the financial statements.
All changes to those assets and liabilities and the resulting gains and losses that arise after the Group has gained control The financial performance of the Group is dependent upon the wider of the subsidiary are included in the post-acquisition income statement.
economic environment in which the Group operates.
As explained in the principal risks and uncertainties on pages 36 to 39, factors Jointly controlled entities that particularly impact upon the performance of the Group include A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group holds an interest changes in the macroeconomic environment including buyer with one or more other parties where a contractual arrangement has confidence, availability ofmortgage finance for the Groups customers established joint control over the entity.
Jointly controlled entities are and interest rates.
accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
As announced in May 2011, in accordance with the terms of the Groups Jointly controlled operations refinancing, on 26 April 2012 the Groups committed revolving credit The Group enters into jointly controlled operations as part of its facilities RCFs totalling 1,190.5m terminated and the forward start housebuilding and property development activities.
The Groups share RCFs totalling 780m became available for drawing.
At 30 June 2012, of profits and losses from its investments in such jointly controlled the Groups total committed facilities and private placement notes were operations is accounted for on a direct basis and is included in the 1,091m.
The maturity dates of these facilities range from April 2013 consolidated income statement.
The Groups share of its investments, to July 2021, with 690m of the RCFs maturing in May 2015. assets and liabilities is accounted for on a directly proportional basis inthe Group balance sheet.
The covenant package remains unchanged to that announced inMay 2011.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 79 ACCOUNTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES Associated entities costs, finance income, the Groups share of profits orlosses from joint An associated entity is an entity, including an unincorporated entity such ventures and associates, tax and gains losses on disposal of investments.
as a partnership, in which the Group holds a significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Associated Segmental reporting entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The Group consists of two separate segments for internal reporting regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to allocate Revenue resources to the segments and to assess their performance, being Revenue is recognised at legal completion in respect of the total housebuilding and commercial developments.
These segments proceeds of building and development.
An appropriate proportion therefore comprise the primary reporting segments within the financial ofrevenue from construction contracts is recognised by reference statements.
All of the Groups operations are within Britain, which is one to the stage of completion of contract activity.
Revenue is measured geographic market in the context of managing the Groups activities.
atthe fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents the amounts receivable for the property, net of discounts and VAT.
The Goodwill sale proceeds of part-exchange properties are not included in revenue.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration over the fair value of the separately identifiable net Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal assets and liabilities acquired.
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses Construction contracts is capitalised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Revenue is only recognised on a construction contract where the outcome can be estimated reliably.
Variations to, and claims arising in For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each respect of, construction contracts, are included in revenue to the extent ofthe Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the that they have been agreed with the customer.
Revenue and costs are synergies of the combination at acquisition.
Cash-generating units recognised by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity towhich goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment at least atthe balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by surveys of work annually.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less performed to date.
Contracts are only treated as construction contracts than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated when they have been specifically negotiated for the construction of a first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the development or property.
When it is probable that the total costs on a unitand then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis construction contract will exceed total contract revenue, the expected ofthecarrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss is recognised as an expense in the income statement immediately.
lossisrecognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts are included in trade receivables and stated at cost plus attributable profit less any foreseeable Intangible assets losses.
Payments received on account for construction contracts are Brands deducted from amounts recoverable on construction contracts.
Internally generated brands are not capitalised.
The Group has capitalised as intangible assets brands that have been acquired.
Payments received in excess of amounts recoverable on construction Acquired brand values are calculated using discounted cash flows.
contracts are included in trade payables.
Where a brand is considered to have a finite life, it is amortised over itsuseful life on a straight-line basis.
Where a brand is capitalised Exceptional items withanindefinite life, it is not amortised.
The factors that contribute to Items that are material in size or unusual or infrequent in nature are the durability ofbrands capitalised are that there are no material legal, presented as exceptional items in the income statement.
The Directors regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that are of the opinion that the separate presentation of exceptional items limitthe useful life of these intangible assets.
provides helpful information about the Groups underlying business performance.
Examples of events that, inter alia, may give rise to the The Group carries out an annual impairment review of indefinite classification of items as exceptional are the restructuring of existing and lifebrands as part of the review of the carrying value of goodwill, newly-acquired businesses, refinancing costs, gains or losses on the byperforming a value-in-use calculation, using a discount factor disposal of businesses or individual assets, pension scheme curtailments basedupon the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
and asset impairments, including land, work in progress, goodwill and investments.
Investments Interests in subsidiary undertakings are accounted for at cost less Restructuring costs anyprovision for impairment.
Restructuring costs are recognised in the income statement when the Group has a detailed plan that has been communicated to the affected Where share-based payments are granted to the employees of parties.
A liability is accrued for unpaid restructuring costs.
subsidiary undertakings by the Company, they are treated asacapital contribution to the subsidiary and the Companys investment in the Profit from operations subsidiary is increased accordingly.
Profit from operations includes all of the revenue and costs derived from the Groups operating businesses.
Profit from operations excludes finance 80 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Property, plant and equipment Non-vesting conditions are taken into account in the estimate of the fair Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated value of the equity instruments.
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of the assets on a straight-line basis Cash-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value totheirresidual value over their estimated useful lives.
Residual values ofthe liability at the date of grant and are re-measured both at the end andasset lives are reviewed annually.
ofeach reporting period and at the date of settlement with any changes in fair value being recognised in the income statement for the period.
Fair Freehold properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 25years.
value is measured initially and at the end of each reporting period using Freehold land is not depreciated.
Plant is depreciated onastraight-line a Black-Scholes model and at the date of settlement as cashpaid.
basis over its expected useful life, which ranges from one to seven years.
Tax Inventories The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
comprises direct materials, direct labour costs and those overheads which have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or Land held for development, including land in the course of development, deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never is initially recorded at discounted cost.
Where, through deferred purchase taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated credit terms, the carrying value differs from the amount that will ultimately using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by be paid in settling the liability, this difference is charged as a finance cost thebalance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all in the income statement over the period of settlement.
temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an Due to the scale of the Groups developments, the Group has to allocate obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in site-wide development costs between units built in the current year thefuture have occurred at the balance sheet date.
It also has to estimate costs to complete on such developments.
In making these assessments there is a degree of inherent Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply in the uncertainty.
The Group has developed internal controls to assess and period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax review carrying values and the appropriateness of estimates made.
rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except Leases as lessee when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement in equal case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
instalments over the life of the lease.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore Leases as lessor recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be The Group enters into leasing arrangements with third parties following regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits the completion of constructed developments until the date of the sale from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can ofthe development to third parties.
Rental income from these operating be deducted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis a legally enforceable right to set-off current tax assets against current over the term of the lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and tax liabilities and when they relate to taxes levied by the same tax arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and leased asset and recognised in the income statement on a straight-line liabilities on a net basis.
basis over the lease term.
Pensions Share-based payments Defined contribution The Group issues both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes for certain payments to certain employees.
In accordance with the transitional employees.
The Groups contributions to the schemes are charged in provisions, IFRS2 Share-based Payments has been applied to all the income statement in the year in which the contributions fall due.
grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested at 1 January 2005.
Defined benefit For the defined benefit scheme, the cost of providing benefits is Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value of determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial the equity instrument at the date of grant.
Fair value is measured either valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains using Black-Scholes, Present-Economic Value or Monte Carlo models and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They dependent upon the characteristics of the scheme.
The fair value is are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in the statement expensed in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the ofcomprehensive income.
vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest where non-market vesting conditions apply.
Past service cost, until the scheme ceased to offer future accrual ofdefined benefit pensions to employees from 30 June 2009, was BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 81 ACCOUNTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits were already uncollectable amounts.
The net of these balances are classified as vested, and otherwise was amortised on a straight-line basis over tradeand other receivables in the balance sheet.
theaverage period until the benefits become vested.
Trade and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted Impairment of financial assets for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value Trade and other receivables are assessed for indicators of impairment ofthe scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited ateach balance sheet date and are impaired where there is objective to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and evidence that the recovery of the receivable is in doubt.
reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Objective evidence of impairment could include significant financial Borrowing costs difficulty of the customer, default on payment terms or the customer The Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the going into liquidation.
acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part ofthe cost of the asset where developments are considered to fall The carrying amount of trade and other receivables is reduced through underthe requirements of IAS23 Revised.
Otherwise, the Group the use of an allowance account.
When a trade or other receivable is expenses borrowing costs in the period to which they relate through considered uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the Financial instruments allowance account are recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual For financial assets classified as available for sale, a significant or provisions of the instrument.
prolonged decline in the value of the property underpinning the value ofthe loan or increased risk of default are considered to be objective The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual evidence of impairment.
rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the In respect of debt instruments classified as available for sale financial asset to another entity.
assets, increases in the fair value of assets previously subject to impairment, which can be objectively related to an event occurring The Group derecognises a financial liability only when the Groups afterrecognition of the impairment loss, are recognised in the income obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
statement to the extent that they reverse the impairment loss.
Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Non-derivative financial assets are classified as either available for sale Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and balances in bank financial assets or loans and receivables.
The classification depends accounts with no notice or less than three months notice from inception on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
atthe time of initial recognition.
Cash and cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables.
Available for sale financial assets Non-interest bearing loans granted as part of sales transactions that Financial liabilities and equity aresecured by way of a second legal charge on the respective property Financial liabilities and equity are classified according to the substance are classified as being available for sale and are stated at fair value.
of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Fairvalue is determined in the manner described in note 15.
Equity instruments Revenue from transactions involving available for sale financial assets Equity instruments consist of the Companys ordinary share capital isrecognised at the fair value of consideration receivable.
andare recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised Financial liabilities inequity within other comprehensive income.
Gains and losses arising All non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as other financial from impairment losses, changes in future cash flows and interest liabilities and are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
calculated using the effective interest rate method are recognised Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost directly in the income statement.
using the effective interest rate method.
Trade and other receivables Other financial liabilities consist of bank borrowings and trade Trade and other receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable andotherpayables.
payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included incurrent assets, except for those with maturities greater than twelve Financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless the Group months after the balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least assets and are measured at amortised cost less an allowance for any twelve months after the balance sheet date.
82 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Trade and other payables the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting the changes in cash Trade and other payables on normal terms are not interest bearing flows of the hedged items.
andare stated at amortised cost.
Details of the fair values of the interest rate and cross currency swaps Trade and other payables on extended terms, particularly in respect ofland, are provided in notes 22, 23 and 24 to the financial statements.
are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the asset to which Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are detailed in the they relate by discounting at prevailing market interest rates at the date of statements of changes in shareholders equity.
The discount to nominal value, which willbe paid in settling the deferred purchase terms liability, is amortised over the period of the credit Cash flow hedge term and charged to finance costs using theeffective interest rate method.
To the extent that the Groups cash flow hedges are effective, gains andlosses on the fair value of the interest rate and cross currency swap Bank borrowings arrangements are deferred in equity in the hedging reserve until realised.
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds On realisation, such gains and losses are recognised within finance received, net of direct issue costs.
charges in the income statement.
Where bank agreements include a legal right of offset for in hand and To the extent that any hedge is ineffective, gains and losses on the fair overdraft balances, and the Group intends to settle the net outstanding value of these swap arrangements are recognised immediately in finance position, the offset arrangements are applied to record the net position charges in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the periods Finance income and charges are accounted for using the effective when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
interest rate method in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement relationship, the hedging instrument expires, is sold or terminated or no inthe period to which they relate.
longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain orloss deferred in equity remains in equity and is recognised when the Derivative financial instruments forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a The Group has entered into derivative financial instruments in the form forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, thecumulative gain or ofinterest rate swaps and cross currency swaps to manage the interest loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
rate and foreign exchange rate risk arising from the Groups operations and sources of finance.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by Government grants the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors as detailed Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable innotes 24 and 25 to the financial statements.
assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching tothem and that the grants will be received.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value Government grants are recognised in the income statement so as at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the tomatch with the related costs that they are intended to compensate.
profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective Grants related to assets are deducted from the carrying amount of the as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in asset.
Grants related to income are included in the appropriate line profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The interest rate and cross currency swap arrangements are designated Kickstart as hedging instruments, being either hedges of a change in future cash The Group has been granted assistance for the development of a flows as a result of interest rate movements, or hedges of a change in number of sites under the Homes and Communities Agency HCA future cash flows as a result of foreign currency exchange rate movements.
Where receipts under the Kickstart scheme relate togrants they are accounted for in accordance with the policy for The fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a non-current asset Government grants stated above.
or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedging relationship is more than twelve months and as a current asset In addition the Group has received cash upon specific sites under the oracurrent liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship Kickstart equity scheme which is repayable in future periods, as the sites isless than twelve months.
to which it relates are developed, along with the share of the profits or losses attributable to the HCA arising from the sites.
This liability is included Hedge accounting within borrowings and is initially recognised at fair value by discounting it at All of the Groups interest rate and cross currency swaps are designated prevailing market interest rates at the date of recognition.
The discount to as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship the Group nominal value, which will be paid in settling the liability, isamortised over the documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the expected life of the site and charged to finance costs using the effective hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy interest rate method.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value of for undertaking various hedged transactions.
In addition, at the inception the liability related to the HCAs share of the profits or losses of the site are of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether recognised directly in the income statement.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 83
