ACCOUNTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMPACT OF STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS IN ISSUE BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE At the date of approval of these financial statements there were a number 2013.
It principally revises existing accounting treatment forpensions of standards, amendments and interpretations that have been published and other post-employment benefits and termination benefits.
The and are therefore mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning Group is currently assessing the impact of the standard on the on or after 1 July 2012 and later periods.
IFRS9 Financial Instruments Groups results and financial position.
2010, IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS11 Joint Amendment to IFRS7 Financial Instrument Disclosures.
This amends Arrangements, IFRS12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities, IFRS13 the disclosure requirements in respect of financial instruments that are Fair Value Measurement, IAS27 Revised, IAS28 Revised, Amendment set-off in accordance with guidance in IAS32 Financial Instruments: to IFRS7, Amendment to IAS1, Amendment to IAS12, Amendment Presentation.
The amendment applies to the Group from 1 January toIAS19 Employee Benefits and Amendment to IAS32 have been 2013 and is expected to impact upon the Group by requiring additional adopted by the EU.
The Group has not early adopted any standard, disclosures in the annual financial statements.
Amendment to IAS32 will apply to the Group from 1 July 2014.
This amendment provides guidance on the application of offsetting The standards, amendments and interpretations that are expected infinancial statements.
The Group is currently assessing the impact toimpact upon the Group are: ofthe standard on the Groups results and financial position.
IFRS9 Financial Instruments is likely to apply to the Group from 1 July 2015.
The standard was reissued in October 2010 as the The adoption of the following standards, amendments and interpretations second step in the IASB project to replace IAS39 Financial is not expected to have any material impact on the financial statements Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS9 2010 now ofthe Group: includes new requirements for classifying and measuring financial Amendment to IAS12 Deferred tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets assets and financial liabilities and the derecognition of financial provides an exception to the general principles of IAS12 for investment instruments.
TheIASB is continuing the process of expanding IFRS9 property measured using the fair value model in IAS40 Investment to add new requirements for impairment and hedge accounting.
The amendment applies to the Group from 1 July 2012 Group is currently assessing the impact ofthe standard on the andis not expected to have an impact on the Group.
Groups results and financial position and will continue to assess the Amendment to IAS1 Financial Statement Presentation will apply tothe impact as the standard is revised by the IASB.
This amends the presentation of other IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements will apply to the Group comprehensive income in the statement of comprehensive income.
The new standard was issued in May 2011 to The amendment is not expected to have material impact on the Group.
establish principles for the presentation and preparation of consolidated Amendment to IAS1 Government Loans Amendments to IFRS1 financial statements when an entity controls one or more other entities.
willapply to the Group from 1 January 2013.
This amends IFRS1 The Group is currently assessing the impact of the standard on the First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Groups results and financial position.
toaddress how a first-time adopter would account for a Government IFRS11 Joint Arrangements will apply to the Group from 1 July 2013. loan with a below-market rate of interest when transitioning to IFRSs.
The new standard was issued in May 2011 and requires that a party This amendment is not expected to impact the Group.
toa joint arrangement determines the type of joint arrangement inwhich it is involved by assessing its rights and obligations and accounts for those rights and obligations in accordance with that type of joint arrangement.
The Group is currently assessing the impact ofthe standard on the Groups results and financial position.
IFRS12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities will apply to the Group from 1 July 2013.
The new standard was issued in May 2011 and requires the disclosure of information that enables users of financial statements to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, its interests in other entities and the effects of those interests on its financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
The Group iscurrently assessing the impact of the standard on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement will apply to the Group from 1 July 2013.
The new standard was issued in May 2011 and defines fair value, sets out in a single IFRS a framework for measuring fair value and requires disclosures about fair value measurements.
The Group iscurrently assessing the impact of the standard on the Groups results and financial position.
IAS27 Revised Separate Financial Statements will apply to the Group from 1 July 2013.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the amendment on the financial statements of the Group.
IAS28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures will apply to the Group from 1 July 2013.
IAS19 Revised Employee Benefits will apply to the Group from 1July 84 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
