Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited will be held at agreement which would or might require shares to Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, be allotted or Rights to be granted and the Channel Islands GY1 3QL on Thursday, 23 May 2013 at Directors may allot shares or grant Rights in 12.30 pm for the following purposes.
pursuance of such offer or agreement: and ii this authority is in substitution for all previous Ordinary Business authorities conferred on the Directors in accordance To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as with sections 292 or 293 or otherwise of The Ordinary Resolutions: Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended from time to time but without prejudice to any 1.
That the Annual Report and Accounts for the year allotment of shares or grant of Rights already made ended 31 December 2012 be received and approved.
or offered or agreed to be made pursuant to such authorities.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 be approved.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as Special Resolutions: 3.
That Mr M R Moore, who retires annually, be re-elected as a Director.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby generally empowered, to allot ordinary shares in 4.
That Mr B W Sweetland, who retires annually, be rethe Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or to elected as a Director.
convert securities into, ordinary shares in the Company equity securities, including the grant of rights to 5.
That Mr P Niven, who retires annually, be re-elected as subscribe for, or to convert securities into ordinary a Director.
shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if any pre-emption rights in relation to the issue 6.
That Mr N J M Tostevin, who retires annually, be reof shares as set out in the listing rules made by the elected as a Director.
Financial Conduct Authority under part VI of the 7.
That Mr J G Hooley, who retires annually, be re-elected Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended as a Director.
did not apply to any such allotment of equity securities, provided that this power: 8.
That Mr C Russell, who retires annually, be re-elected a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General as a Director.
Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on the expiry of 15 months from the 9.
That KPMG Channel Islands Limited be re-appointed as passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, auditor.
save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might 10.
That the Directors be authorised to determine the require equity securities to be allotted after such auditors remuneration.
expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities 11.
That, to the extent required by Sections 292 and 293 in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if or otherwise of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 the power conferred hereby had not expired: and as amended from time to time : b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities i the Directors be generally and unconditionally up to an aggregate nominal value 758,715 being authorised to allot shares comprised in the share approximately 10 per cent of the nominal value of capital of the Company as described in the the issued share capital of the Company, as at Companys Articles of Incorporation or grant 23 April 2013. options, warrants or other rights in respect of shares in the Company the Rights provided that 13.
That the Company be authorised, in accordance with this authority shall be limited to the allotment of section 315 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, shares or Rights to be granted in respect of shares to make market acquisitions within the meaning of with an aggregate nominal value of up to section 316 1 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 758,715, being approximately 10 per cent of the 2008 of ordinary shares of 1p each Ordinary nominal value of the issued share capital of the Shares either for retention as treasury shares for Company as at 23 April 2013 and further provided future resale or transfer, or cancellation, provided that this authority shall, unless renewed, varied or that: revoked by the Company, expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby Company after the passing of this resolution or on authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99 per cent expiry of 15 months from the passing of this of the issued Ordinary Shares on the date on which resolution, whichever is earlier, save that the this resolution is passed: 52 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited b the minimum price which may be paid for an Notes: Ordinary Share shall be 1p: 1.
A member who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which attend, speak and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be the not be a member of the Company.
higher of i 105 per cent of the average of the 2.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each middle market quotations as derived from the Daily proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to Official List for the Ordinary Shares for the five different shares.
business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and ii the higher of the last independent 3.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The trade and the highest current independent bid on form of proxy should be completed and sent, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under the trading venue which the purchase is carried which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such out: and power or authority, so as to reach the Companys registrars Computershare Investor Services Guernsey d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the Limited, c o The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 authority hereby conferred shall expire at the 6ZY not later than 12.30 pm on 21 May 2013. conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the 4.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent Company to be held in 2014, or on 23 November a member from attending in person at the Meeting should 2014, whichever is the earlier, save that the he or she so wish.
Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under such 5.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and also for the purposes of calculating how many votes a authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary member may cast on a poll a member must first have his Shares pursuant to any such contract.
or her name entered on the register of members not later than close of business on 21 May 2013.
Changes to entries in the register after that time shall be disregarded in Special Business determining the rights of any member to attend and vote To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as a at such Meeting.
As at 23 April 2013, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 14.
That, pursuant to article 101 of the Articles of 758,715,702 Ordinary Shares in issue.
The number of Incorporation of the Company, the authorised shares with voting rights was 758,715,702, each carrying aggregate remuneration of the Directors shall be one voting right.
increased from 300,000 to 400,000 per annum and 7.
Any person holding 3 per cent or more of the total voting Article 101 1 of the Articles of Incorporation of the rights in the Company who appoints a person other than Company be deleted in its entirety and replaced with the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he the following: and such third party complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Directors shall be paid out of the funds of the Transparency Rules.
Company by way of fees such sums not exceeding in 8.
The Articles of Incorporation and the Directors letters of the aggregate 400,000 per annum as the Directors appointment will be available for inspection from 15 minutes shall determine or as may otherwise be approved by prior to, and at, the Annual General Meeting.
the Company in general meeting.
Directors fees shall be deemed to accrue from day to day.
By order of the Board Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited Secretary Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port Guernsey, Channel Islands GY1 3QL 23 April 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53
