Shareholder Information Dividends Change of Address Ordinary dividends are paid monthly.
Shareholders who Communications with shareholders are mailed to the wish to have dividends paid directly into a bank account address held on the share register.
In the event of a rather than by cheque to their registered address can change of address or other amendment this should be complete a mandate form for the purpose.
Mandates may notified to Computershare Investor Services Guernsey be obtained from Computershare Investor Services Limited, c o Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St. Helier, Guernsey Limited, c o Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, Jersey JE1 1ES under the signature of the registered St. Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES on request.
paid directly to shareholders bank accounts, dividend tax vouchers are sent directly to shareholders registered Shareholder Enquiries addresses.
Contact Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, Share Price St. Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands GY1 3QL.
The Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Additional information regarding the Company may also be Stock Exchange.
Prices are given daily in the Financial found at its website address which is: www.
co. uk Times under Investment Companies and in other newspapers.
Warning to Shareholders Boiler Room Scams In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have been targeted by unauthorised overseas-based brokers selling what turn out to be non-existent or high risk shares, or expressing a wish to buy their shares.
If you receive unsolicited investment advice or requests: Make sure you get the correct name of the person or organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA before getting involved by visiting www.
do Report the matter to the FCA by calling 0800 111 6768 If the calls persist, hang up More detailed information on this matter can be found on the FCA website: www.
uk consumers scams 54 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
