153 Independent auditors report on the parent company financial statements We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on financial statements Grainger plc for the year ended 30 September 2012 which In our opinion the parent company financial statements: comprise the parent company balance sheet and the related Give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied at 30 September 2012 in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Accounting Practice.
Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors of the Companies Act 2006.
As explained more fully in the statement of directors Opinion on other matters prescribed by the responsibilities set out on pages 72 and 73, the directors are Companies Act 2006 responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial In our opinion: statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair The part of the directors remuneration report to be audited view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the parent company financial statements in accordance with Act 2006: and applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and The information given in the directors report for the Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing financial year for which the parent company financial Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
statements are prepared is consistent with the parent This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for, company financial statements.
and only for, the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for Matters on which we are required to report by exception no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may in our opinion: come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Scope of the audit of the financial statements received from branches not visited by us: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable The parent company financial statements and the part of the assurance that the financial statements are free from material directors remuneration report to be audited are not in misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an agreement with the accounting records and returns: or assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently are not made: or applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of We have not received all the information and explanations significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the we require for our audit.
overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual Other matter report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with We have reported separately on the group financial statements the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any of Grainger plc for the year ended 30 September 2012. apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider David A Snell the implications for our report.
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 6 December 2012
