Grainger plc 166 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Glossary of terms Property Financial Assured periodic tenancy APT Regulated tenancy Cap Market-rented tenancy arising from Tenancy regulated under the 1977 Rent Financial instrument which, in return for succession from a regulated tenancy.
Rent usually sub-market is set by the a fee, guarantees an upper limit for the Tenant has security of tenure.
rent officer and the tenant has security of interest rate on a loan.
Assured shorthold tenancy AST Contingent tax Market-rented tenancy where landlord Tenanted residential TR The amount of tax that would be payable may obtain possession if appropriate Activity covering the acquisition, renting should assets be sold at the market value notice is served.
out and subsequent sale usually on shown in the market value balance sheet.
vacancy of residential units subject to a Assured tenancy AT Dividend cover tenancy agreement.
Market-rented tenancy where tenant has Earnings per share divided by dividends the right to renew.
Vacant possession value VP or VPV per share.
Open market value of a property free Investment value IV or market value Earnings per share EPS from any tenancy.
Open market value of a property subject Profit after tax attributable to shareholders to relevant tenancy in place.
divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue in the year.
Home reversion Corporate Rent free tenancy where tenant has the Gearing IFRS right of occupation until possession is The ratio of borrowings, net of cash, International Financial Reporting forfeited usually on death.
If the tenant to market net asset value.
Standards, mandatory for UK-listed retains an equity interest in the property companies for accounting periods ending Goodwill this is a partial life tenancy.
On acquisition of a company, the PRS difference between the fair value of net assets acquired and the fair value of the Private rented sector.
Gross net asset value NAV Shareholders funds adjusted for the market value of property assets held as stock but before deduction for deferred tax on property revaluations and before adjustments for the fair value of derivatives.
167 Hedging Return on shareholders equity The use of financial instruments to Growth in NNNAV in the year plus the protect against interest rate movements.
dividend per share relating to each year as a percentage of opening NNNAV.
Interest cover Profit on ordinary activities before interest Swap and tax divided by net interest payable.
Financial instrument to protect against interest rate movements.
Loan to value LTV Ratio of net debt to the market value Total shareholder return TSR of properties.
Return attributable to shareholders on the basis of share price growth with Net net net asset value triple net or dividends reinvested.
NNNAV Gross NAV adjusted for deferred tax and Weighted average cost of capital those contingent tax liabilities which WACC would accrue if assets were sold at market The weighted average cost of funding the value and for the fair value of long-term groups activities through a combination of debt and derivatives.
Return on capital employed Operating profit after net valuation movements on investment properties plus the share of results from joint venture associates plus the movement on the uplift of trading stock to market value as a percentage of opening gross capital defined as investment property, financial interest in property assets CHARM, investment in joint venture associates and trading stock at market value.
