Grainger plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group.
They are fide-consolidated from the a Basis of preparation date control ceases.
Grainger plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on It is a public limited liability company listed on the London Stock transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Exchange and the address of the registered office is given on Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where page 164.
The group financial statements consolidate those of necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the company and its subsidiaries, together referred to as the the group.
group, and equity account the groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The parent company financial statements present ii Goodwill and impairment The purchase method of accounting information about the company and not about its group.
is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
These financial statements for the year ended 30 September The cost of the acquisition is measured as the fair value of the 2012 have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed assets given and equity instruments issued.
Identifiable assets International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRIC acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 business combination are measured initially at their fair values applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The company has at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill represents the excess of the elected to prepare its company financial statements in accordance cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of with UK GAAP.
These are presented on pages 154 to 161. net identifiable assets including intangible assets of the acquired The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise entity at the date of acquisition.
If the cost of the acquisition is stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in the less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary group financial statements.
acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income The group financial statements have been prepared under the statement.
Costs attributable to an acquisition are expensed historical cost convention except for the following assets and in the consolidated income statement under the heading liabilities, and corresponding income statement accounts, which Other expenses.
are stated at their fair value: investment property, derivative Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included within this financial instruments and financial interest in property assets.
caption on the statement of financial position.
Goodwill on The preparation of financial statements in conformity with acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included in IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and investments in joint ventures and associates.
assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and of impairment testing and is tested annually for impairment and expenses.
Although these estimates are based on managements carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment best knowledge of the events and amounts involved, actual losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas relating to the entity sold.
where assumptions and estimates are significant to the iii Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are those entities consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 2. over whose activities the group has joint control, established by b Basis of consolidation contractual agreement.
Associates are all entities over which i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including special the group has significant influence but not control, generally purposes entities over which the group has the power accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the to govern the financial and operating policies generally voting rights.
Significant influence is the power to participate in accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the the financial and operating decisions of the investee but is not voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights control or joint control over those policies.
that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the group controls another entity.
85 Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for All of the above segments are UK based except German by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised residential which has its assets and tenants based in Germany and at cost.
The groups investment in joint ventures and associates UK and European Development which includes assets based in includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss the Czech Republic.
More detail is given relating to each of the identified on acquisition.
The groups share of its joint ventures and associates postThe group has a segment director responsible for the acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, performance of each of these five segments and the group and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is reports key financial information to the CODM on the basis of recognised in other comprehensive income.
Where the groups these five segments.
Each of these five segments operates within interest has been reduced to nil, additional losses are provided a different part of the overall residential market.
for, and a liability is recognised, only to the extent that the group The title All other segments has been included in the has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments segmental tables in note 4 to reconcile the segments to the on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
The cumulative postfigures reviewed by the CODM.
acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount The measure of profit or loss used by the CODM is of the investment.
the trading profit or loss before valuation gains or deficits on Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its investment properties and excluding all revaluation and non joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the recurring items as set out in note 3.
The CODM reviews by groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The accounting segment two key statements of financial position measures policies of joint ventures and associates have been changed of net asset value.
These are Gross net asset value NAV where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted and Triple net asset value NNNAV measures.
Further detail by the group.
is provided in note 4. c Segmental reporting d Share capital The groups risks and rates of return are affected predominantly Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly by differences between the property asset types it owns and attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in manages.
A business segment is a distinguishable group of assets equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
and operations, reflected in the way that the group manages its e Foreign currency translation business, that is subject to risks and returns that are different i Functional and presentation currency Items included in the from those of other business segments.
financial statements of each of the groups entities are measured IFRS 8, Operating Segments IFRS 8 requires operating using the currency of the primary economic environment in which segments to be identified based upon the Groups internal the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated reporting to the chief operating decision maker CODM to financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling, which is make decisions about resources to be allocated to segments the companys functional and presentation currency.
and to assess their performance.
The groups CODM is the chief executive officer.
ii Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are translated at the foreign exchange rates prevailing at the The group has identified five such segments as follows: dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities UK residential: denominated in foreign currencies at the statement of financial Retirement solutions: position date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange Fund and third party management: rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions are recognised UK and European development: and in the income statement.
Grainger plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued In general, however, it is not possible for the group to identify which properties will be sold within the next 12 months.
iii Foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign Although the size of the groups property portfolio does result in operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising a relatively predictable vacancy rate, it is not possible to predict in on consolidation, are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange advance the specific properties that will become vacant.
rates ruling at the statement of financial position date.
Revenues g Financial interest in property assets and expenses of foreign operations are translated at average foreign exchange rates for the relevant period.
Foreign exchange Financial interest in property assets is initially recognised at fair gains and losses are recognised within the consolidated statement value plus transaction costs and subsequently carried at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the net change in value that is recorded through the income statement is as follows: i the iv Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign carrying value of the assets is increased by the effective interest operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any rate and ii the carrying value of the assets is revised to the net present value of the updated projected cash flows arising from gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive the instrument using the effective interest rate applicable at income within the translation reserve as part of retained earnings.
The change in value recorded through the income Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in statement is shown on the line Income from financial interest the income statement within interest expense and similar charges.
Cash received from the instrument in the year Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the is deducted from the carrying value of the asset.
income statement when the foreign operation is partially Differences between the updated projected cash flows using disposed of or sold.
the effective interest rate applicable at acquisition compared to updated projected cash flows using a year end effective interest f Investment property rate, assessed as the rate available in the market for an instrument Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for capital with a similar maturity and credit risk, are taken through other appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the companies comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the in the consolidated group, is classified as investment property.
carrying value of the assets.
When gains or losses in the assets are Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including realised, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in related transaction costs.
equity are included in the income statement as gains and losses After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair from financial interest in property assets.
Fair value is based on active market prices, adjusted, if necessary, for any difference in the nature, location or condition h Inventories trading property of the specified asset.
If this information is not available, the Tenanted residential properties held for sale in the normal course group uses alternative valuation methods such as recent prices of business are shown in the financial statements as a current on less active markets or discounted cash flow projections.
asset at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes Subsequent expenditure is included in the carrying amount of legal and surveying charges and introducer fees incurred during the property when it is probable that the future economic acquisition together with improvement costs.
Net realisable value benefits associated with the item will flow to the group and the is the net sale proceeds which the group expects on sale of a cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and property with vacant possession.
maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during Land and property held within the development segment of the financial period in which they are incurred.
the business are shown in the financial statements at the lower of Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the cost and net realisable value.
Cost represents the acquisition price groups investment properties are included in the income including legal and other professional costs associated with the statement of the period in which they arise.
acquisition together with subsequent development costs net of Where specific investment properties have been identified as amounts transferred to costs of sale.
Net realisable value is the being for sale within the next 12 months their fair value is shown expected net sales proceeds of the developed property.
under assets classified as held-for-sale within current assets.
87 Where residential properties are sold tenanted or where land is ii Defined benefit pension scheme The group currently sold without development, net realisable value is the current contributes to a defined benefit pension scheme that was closed market value net of associated selling costs.
to new members and employee contributions in 2003.
The full deficit in the scheme was recognised in the statement of financial i Cash and cash equivalents position as at 1 October 2004.
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held An actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments years.
The cost of providing benefits is determined using with original maturities of three months or less.
the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being j Income tax carried out at each statement of financial position date by a Income tax on the profits or losses for the periods presented qualified actuary, also under the Projected Unit Credit Method, comprises both current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the for the purpose of determining the amounts to be reflected in expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year the groups financial statements under IAS 19. using rates applicable during the year.
Tax payable upon the The liability recognised in the statement of financial position is realisation of revaluation gains recognised in prior periods is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the recorded as a current tax charge with a release of the associated statement of financial position date less the fair value of scheme deferred taxation.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, There are no current or past service costs as the scheme on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets is closed to new members and employee contributions.
Interest and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated on pension scheme liabilities and the expected return on pension financial statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax scheme assets are reflected in the income statement each year.
rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted Actuarial gains and losses net of deferred income tax are by the statement of financial position date and are expected to reflected in the consolidated statement of comprehensive apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or income each year.
the deferred income tax liability is settled.
iii Share-based compensation The group operates a number Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans comprising it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against awards under a Long-term Incentive Scheme LTIS, a deferred which the temporary differences can be utilised.
bonus plan DBP, a Share Incentive Plan SIP and a save as you Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences earn SAYE scheme.
The fair value of the employee services arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except received in exchange for the grant of shares and options is where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is recognised as an employee expense.
The total amount to be controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the fair value of the shares and options granted.
For market based Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when conditions, the probability of vesting is taken into account in the there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets fair value calculation and no revision is made to the number of against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes shares or options expected to vest.
For non-market conditions, assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same each year the group revises its estimate of the number of options taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable or shares that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement with net basis.
k Employee benefits Awards that are subject to a market-based performance i Defined contribution pension scheme Obligations for condition are valued at fair value using the Monte Carlo contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are simulation model.
Awards not subject to a market-based recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period performance condition are valued at fair value using the Black to which they relate.
Grainger plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued sales costs, from the sale of trading properties and management fee and other income.
When options are exercised the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital m Leases nominal value and share premium.
i Group as lessor The net present value of ground rents receivable is, in the opinion of the directors, immaterial.
Accordingly, ground l Revenue recognition rents receivable are taken to the income statement on a straightRevenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration line basis over the period of the lease.
Properties leased out to received or receivable and is stated net of sales taxes and value tenants are included in the statement of financial position as added taxes.
Revenue is recognised on our three primary income either investment property or as trading property under inventories.
streams as follows: Where the group grants a lifetime lease on an investment i Income from property trading Revenue and profits or losses property and receives from the lessee an upfront payment in arising from the sale of trading and investment property are respect of the grant of the lease, the upfront payment is treated included in the income statement where contract completion has as deferred rent in the statement of financial position.
Profits or losses are calculated by reference to the deferred rent is released to the income statement on a straightcarrying value of property and are included in operating profit.
line basis over the projected term of the lease.
At each year end the projected term of the lease is revised on an actuarial basis and ii Rental income Rental income is recognised on a straight-line the remaining deferred rent is released to the income statement basis over the lease term on an accruals basis.
on a straight-line basis over this revised lease term.
iii Management fee income Management fee income is ii Group as lessee The group occupies a number of its offices recognised in the accounting period in which the services as a lessee.
After a review of all of its occupational leases, the are rendered.
directors have concluded that all such leases are operating leases.
In addition, income is recognised as follows on service charges Payments, including prepayments, made under operating leases and investments: net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period Service charges of the lease.
The group is responsible for providing service charge services in The net present value of ground rents payable is, in the both the UK and in Germany.
Where Grainger is exposed to the opinion of the directors, immaterial.
Accordingly, ground rent significant risks and rewards associated with the rendering of expenses are taken to the income statement on a straight-line services it is acting as principal.
Otherwise it is acting as agent.
basis over the lease term.
In the UK, Grainger acts primarily as agent.
Accordingly service charge receivables and payables are shown net in the n Derivative financial instruments Derivatives statement of financial position.
In Germany, Grainger acts primarily as principal.
Accordingly The group uses derivative instruments to help manage its interest service charge income and costs are shown gross in the income rate risk.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the group does statement with service charge recoveries from tenants recorded not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivatives are as a component of group revenue.
Where recovery of service classified as current assets and current liabilities.
charges is doubtful a provision for impairment is made.
The derivatives are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequently, the gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value Income from investments is recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the Dividend income from investments is recognised when the derivatives qualify for cash flow hedge accounting in which case shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
any gain or loss is taken to equity in a cash flow hedge reserve.
Group revenue In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is Group revenue set out in note 5, comprises gross rental income, required to document in advance the relationship between the service charge income on a principal basis, gross proceeds, before item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The group is also required to demonstrate that the hedge will be highly effective on 89 an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is re-performed at q Convertible bond each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly The convertible bond is a compound financial instrument and the effective.
carrying amount has been allocated to its equity and liability When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when components in the group statement of financial position.
The a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any liability component has been determined by measuring the fair cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains value of a similar liability that does not have an associated equity component.
The discount rate used for this was based on a rate in equity and is recognised when the forecasted transaction of 7.5% compounded semi-annually.
The liability component has is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a been deducted from the fair value of the compound financial forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the instrument as a whole and the residual element has been cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is assigned to the equity component.
The liability element is immediately transferred to the income statement.
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective Fair value estimation interest rate method.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on a discounted r Trade receivables cash flow model using quoted market information.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and o Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective Derecognition is the point at which the group removes an asset interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for or a liability from its statement of financial position.
The groups impairment in trade receivables is established when there is policy is to derecognise financial assets only when the contractual objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all right to the cash flows from the financial asset expires.
The amount of the provision is the difference also derecognises financial assets that it transfers to another party between the assets carrying amount and the present value provided that the transfer of the assets also transfers the right to of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective receive cash flows from the financial asset.
When the transfer interest rate.
The movement in the provision is recognised does not result in the group transferring the right to receive in the income statement.
cash flows from the financial asset but it does result in the group s Trade payables assuming a corresponding obligation to pay cash flows to another Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and recipient, the financial asset is derecognised.
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective The group derecognises financial liabilities only when its interest method.
obligation is discharged, is cancelled or expires.
Financial assets classified as available-for-sale is the financial t Provisions interest in property assets.
Derivative financial instruments not in Provisions are recognised when a the group has a present hedge accounting relationships are classified as fair value through obligation as a result of a past event and b it is probable profit and loss.
that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and c a reliable estimate can be made of the p Borrowings amount of the obligation.
Borrowings are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value u Dividends of consideration received, net of transaction costs incurred.
Dividend distributions to the companys shareholders are Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any recognised as a liability in the group financial statements in difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the period in which the dividends either are approved by the the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over companys shareholders or are appropriately authorised and the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
no longer at the discretion of the group.
Interim dividends are Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group recognised on payment.
has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the statement of financial position date.
Grainger plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Amendments to IFRS 1 First time adoption was updated to clarify that entities subject to rate regulation are allowed v Assets and associated liabilities classified as held-for-sale to use previous GAAP carrying amounts of property, plant Where a group of assets are to be disposed of by sale as a single and equipment or intangible assets as deemed cost on an group, they are classified as a disposal group.
The disposal group item-by-item basis.
is classified as held-for-sale as defined by IFRS 5 when the assets Amendments to IFRS 3 Business combinations was updated are available-for-sale in their present condition, the sale is highly to extend the application guidance to all share-based payment probable and it is expected to be completed within one year from transactions that are part of a business combination, the date of classification.
including un-replaced and voluntarily replaced share-based w Acquisition of and investment in own shares payment awards.
The group acquires its own shares to enable it to meet its Amendments to IFRS 3 Business combinations was updated obligations under the various share schemes in operation.
No gain to clarify that the choice of measuring non-controlling interests or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees cancellation of the companys own shares.
The acquisition cost net assets applies only to instruments that represent present of the shares is debited to an investment in own shares reserve ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate within retained earnings.
share of the net assets in the event of liquidation.
All other Where the group buys back its own shares as treasury shares components of non-controlling interest are measured at fair it adopts the accounting as described above.
Where it value unless another measurement basis is required by IFRS.
subsequently cancels them, issued share capital is reduced by the Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures nominal value of the shares cancelled and this same amount is includes changes to promote transparency in the reporting of transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
transfer transactions and improve users understanding of the risk exposures of transfers of financial assets.
x Impact of standards and interpretations issued Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures i New standards and interpretations issued in the year At the was updated to include multiple clarifications related to the date of approval of these financial statements, the following disclosure of financial instruments.
interpretations and amendments were issued, endorsed by Amendments to IAS 24 revised Related party disclosures the EU and are mandatory for the group for the first time for was updated to remove the requirement for government the financial year beginning 1 October 2011. related entities to disclose details of all transactions with the Amendments to existing standards government-related entities and it clarifies and simplifies the Amendment to IFRS 1 First time adoption was updated to definition of a related party.
clarify that a first-time adopter that changes its accounting Amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial policies or its use of IFRS 1 exemptions after publishing a set Statements was updated to clarify that the consequential of IAS 34 interim financial information should explain those amendments to IAS 21, IAS 28 and IAS 31 following the 2008 changes and include the effects of such changes in its opening revisions to IAS 27 are to be applied prospectively.
reconciliations within the first annual IFRS reporting.
Amendment to IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting was Amendments to IFRS 1 First time adoption was updated to updated to place greater emphasis on the disclosure principles extend the exemption to use a deemed cost arising from a involving significant events and transactions, including changes revaluation triggered by an event such as a privatisation that to fair value measurements, and the need to update relevant occurred at or before the date of transition to IFRS, to information from the most recent annual report.
revaluations that occur during the period covered by the first IFRS financial statements.
Amendments to IFRS 1 First time Adoption amends fixed dates and includes guidance on implementations affected by hyperinflation.
91 International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Amendment to IAS 12 revised Income taxes introduces an IFRIC interpretations exception to the existing principle for the measurement of IFRIC 15 Arrangement for construction of real estates clarifies deferred tax assets or liabilities arising on investment property when IAS 18 Revenue Recognition and IAS 11 Construction measured at fair value.
contracts should be applied to particular transactions.
Amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits eliminates the IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers clarifies the corridor approach and calculates finance costs on a net funding accounting for arrangements where an item of property, plant basis and also introduces a requirement to group items and equipment that is provided by the customer is used to presented in Other Comprehensive Income on the basis of provide an ongoing service.
whether they are potentially recycled to income statement.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements and IAS 28 instruments clarifies the accounting when an entity revised 2011 Associates and joint ventures include the renegotiates the terms of its debt with the result that the provisions on separate financial statements which are not liability is extinguished through the creditor issuing its own included in IFRS 10. equity instruments to the debtor.
Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation clarifies the offsetting requirements for amounts presented Amendments to existing interpretations in the statement of financial position.
Amendment to IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes to Amendment to IFRS 1 First time adoption addresses how a clarify the term fair value in the context of measuring award first time adopter would account for a government loan with credits under customer loyalty programmes.
a below-market rate of interest when transitioning to IFRS.
Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding IFRS 9 Financial instruments: classification and measurement requirement applies only to entities that are required to make which has two measurement categories: amortised cost and fair minimum funding contributions to a defined benefit pension value.
All equity instruments are measured at fair value.
instrument is measured at amortised cost only if the entity is These standards and amendments to these standards and holding it to collect contractual cash flows and the cash flows interpretations have had no material financial impact on these represent principal and interest.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements which identifies the concept of control as the determining factor of whether ii Standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective an entity should be included within the consolidated At the date of authorisation of these financial statements there financial statements.
are a number of standards, amendments and interpretations to IFRS 11 Joint arrangements includes revised definitions of existing standards that have been published but which are not yet joint arrangements which focus on the rights and obligations effective and which have not been early adopted by the group.
The standard removes the option of These are as follows: proportional consolidation.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities requires Amendment to IAS 1 Financial statement presentation disclosure of all interests in other entities.
introduces a requirement for entities to group items presented IFRS 13 Fair value measurement provides a precise definition in other comprehensive income on the basis of whether they of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently.
