Grainger plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued i The groups own in-house qualified surveying team provided a vacant possession value for the majority of the groups UK based International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee property as at 30 September 2012.
A structured sample of these IFRIC interpretations in-house valuations was reviewed by Allsop LLP, an external IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface independent valuer.
Valuing the large number of properties in the mine sets out the accounting for overburden waste removal portfolio is a significant task.
For this reason it is undertaken on an stripping costs in the production phase of a mine.
Invariably, when the in-house All the above IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and amendments to valuations are compared to those of the external valuer, around existing standards are yet to be endorsed by the European Union 85% of the valuations are within a small acceptable tolerance.
EU at the date of approval of these financial statements with Where the difference is more significant this is discussed with the the exception of IFRS 7. valuer to determine the reasons for the difference.
Typically the The directors are currently considering the potential impact reasons vary but it could be, for example, that further or better arising from the future adoption of these standards and information about internal condition is available or that respective interpretations listed above.
valuers have placed a different interpretation on comparable sales.
Once such reasons have been identified the group and the 2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions valuer agree the appropriate valuation that should be adopted as the directors valuation.
Overall, across all of the properties valued The groups significant accounting policies are stated in note 1 by Allsop LLP, the directors valuations were approximately 0.4% above.
Not all of these accounting policies require management lower than the Allsop LLP values.
to make subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
The Allsop LLP has provided the directors with the following following is intended to provide further detail relating to those opinion on the directors valuation.
Property held in the core accounting policies that management consider critical because residential and retirement solutions portfolios was valued of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in as at 30 September 2012 by Graingers in-house surveyors.
their application and their impact on the consolidated financial These valuations were reviewed and approved by the directors.
The group performs sensitivity analysis as part of the Allsop LLP has undertaken a comprehensive review of the risk management process.
directors valuation and they are satisfied with the process The directors consider that a - 1% 2011: 1% movement by which the in-house valuations were conducted.
As part of in interest rates, a - 10 percentage point 2011: 10 percentage the review, Allsop LLP valued approximately 50% of the core point movement in sterling and a - 1 percentage point 2011: residential portfolio and approximately 37% of the retirement 1 percentage point movement in house prices represents a solutions portfolio, independently of the in-house surveyors.
Based on the results of that review Allsop LLP has concluded Valuation of residential property that they have a high degree of confidence in those directors The groups residential trading property is carried in the statement valuations.
of financial position at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The groups investment property is carried in the statement of financial position at fair value.
The group does, however, in its principal net asset value measures, NAV and NNNAV, include trading stock at market value.
The market value of the groups property which, in the case of investment property, is the same as fair value, is established as set out below.
93 Allsop LLP also recommend the discount to apply to the vacant Whilst in the UK, valuers rely predominantly on recent possession valuations to establish the market value of each transactional evidence for similar properties to value investment property.
For property in UK residential the discounts are property, in Germany investment property is valued using an established by tenancy type and are based on evidence gathered income capitalisation approach under which net rental income by Allsop LLP from recent transactional market evidence.
For is discounted to a net present value.
Both methodologies are property in retirement solutions the discounts recommended by permitted under IAS 40.
Allsop LLP are on a property-by-property basis taking into account iv Allsop LLP has also valued as at 30 September 2012 the a number of factors, primarily the estimated period until vacant property assets owned by the group and let under a long-term possession may arise and the appropriate discount rate.
The lease arrangement with the Secretary of State for Defence under directors have adopted all of the recommendations made by a PFI Project Agreement.
Allsop LLP has provided an Investment Allsop LLP in relation to the discounts.
Valuation, formerly described as Calculation of Worth, which is For the property held in the group statement of financial defined as the value of an asset to the owner or a prospective position as investment property, the valuation process as set out owner for individual investment or operational objectives.
The above gave a market value of 141.6m.
A net valuation gain of Investment Valuation has been made in accordance with RICS 1.3m has been taken through the income statement in relation Valuation Professional Standards, is based on a discounted cash to this property.
The remaining property is held in the groups flow model, and results in an Investment Value of 106.2m as at statement of financial position as trading property at the lower of 30 September 2012.
The property is held in the group statement cost and net realisable value of 772.8m.
of financial position as investment property at this figure.
ii All of the property owned by the group in the Grainger Invest v At the year end the group had a 21.96% interest in G:res portfolio was valued as at 30 September 2012 by Allsop LLP who which has invested in investment property.
Valuations of 100% are external independent valuers.
of the G:res portfolio were carried out at both 31 December 2011 The aggregate of the market values of the properties at 30 and 30 June 2012 by external valuers, Allsop LLP and DTZ September 2012 was 309.3m, subject to the assumption that Debenham Tie Leung Limited.
In aggregate, the valuation of the the dwellings would be sold individually, in their existing individual dwellings at 30 June 2012 was 377.9m.
After full condition, and subject to any existing leases or tenancies.
The consideration of house price movements in those areas where valuers opinion of market value was primarily derived using G:res property assets are situated the groups directors made no comparable recent market transactions on arms-length terms.
adjustment to the 30 June 2012 valuations, other than for sales Part of the property is held in the groups statement of financial and purchases, in assessing the groups share of G:res net assets position as investment property with a market value of 108.4m for the purposes of the groups accounts to 30 September 2012. at 30 September 2012.
The remaining property is held in the For every 1% movement in the market value of the G:res groups statement of financial position as trading property at the investment property the groups share of the movement lower of cost and net realisable value of 180.8m.
The net gain would amount to 0.8m.
on valuation of the investment property in this portfolio was All of the external valuers in the UK mentioned above have 4.1m which has been taken through the income statement.
made full disclosure, as required by RICS Valuation Professional iii The whole of the property portfolio in Germany is investment Standards, of the extent and duration of their work for, and fees property and was valued at 30 September 2012 by Cushman earned by them from, the group, which in all cases are less than and Wakefield LLP who are external independent valuers.
The Germany portfolio held in the group statement of financial position as investment property has a market value at 30 September 2012 of 213.1m 169.7m.
The net deficit on valuation of the Germany portfolio was 2.8m which has been taken through the income statement.
Grainger plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions Decisions regarding whether to develop a site or to sell a site continued undeveloped are made by the directors based on market conditions prevailing at the time.
The assumptions adopted as at Net realisable value of trading property 30 September 2012 are based upon the current intentions of the The groups residential trading properties are carried in the directors.
In addition, estimates at 30 September 2012 of project statement of financial position at the lower of cost and net profitability are based on assumptions regarding projected build realisable value.
costs and sales proceeds for those sites where development is As the groups business model is to sell trading stock on expected to occur.
In some cases these projections are made vacancy, net realisable value is the net sales proceeds which the without the benefit of planning permission having been agreed.
group expects on sale of a property with vacant possession.
The assumptions made may or may not be borne out in practice.
A net realisable value provision has been made at It is possible therefore that any net realisable value provision 30 September 2012 to write down properties expected to be required should be more than or less than that made.
sold ultimately at vacant possession value.
The provision has No charge has been made in the 2012 income statement been assessed on what the group considers to be reasonable 2011: 1.0m in adjusting the book value of development stock assumptions.
These allow for a 2% growth in property prices to net realisable value.
in 2013 followed by growth in house prices of 3% in 2014 with price increases thereafter in line with conservative historical Valuation of financial interest in property assets house price growth rates.
The assumptions also allow for an The valuation is based on an assessment of the future cash flows annual vacancy rate of 7.6%.
The group does sell some property that will arise from our financial interest and on the effective as investment sales, a sale with the tenant still in situ.
A net interest rate used to discount those cash flows.
The valuation realisable value provision has been made at 30 September 2012 methodology adopted is set out in note 1 g above.
The key against projected investment sales.
assumptions affecting the carrying value are house price inflation In aggregate a charge of 0.1m has been made in the 2012 and the effective interest rate.
income statement 2011: charge of 0.8m to adjust the book The fair value of our interest has decreased as cash flows are value of trading properties to the lower of cost and net realisable realised and this decrease of 0.4m 2011: 0.3m has been value and at the year end the group is holding a provision of recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income and 4.4m 2011: 4.4m in its statement of financial position.
Land and property held within the development segment of The assumptions adopted with regard to house prices are the the business, are shown in the financial statements at the lower same as those set out under net realisable value of trading of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the property above.
A change of 1% to average house price inflation expected net sales proceeds of the developed property and a over the 10-year period from 1 October 2012 would either provision is made when, and to the extent that, total projected increase the valuation by 4.0m or reduce the valuation by project costs exceed total projected project revenues.
At 30 September 2012 it is estimated that, with respect Where land and property is sold without development, net to the groups financial interest in property assets a general realisable value is the current market value net of associated increase decrease of one percentage point in house prices at the selling costs.
The current market value of the groups land and statement of financial position date would increase decrease the property held within the development segment has been assessed groups profit before tax by approximately 1.5m 2011: 0.8m.
by CBRE Limited who are external independent valuers.
Their There is no effect on equity as a result of a change in house valuation is on the basis of fair value as defined in the RICS prices as in accordance with IAS 39 AG8 changes to future cash Professional Valuation Standards 2012 where fair value is the flow assumptions are recognised though the income statement.
95 Consideration has been given to the current market value of the Going concern financial asset based on our assessment of a market discount rate.
The directors are required to make an assessment of the groups We have concluded that the discount rate as at 30 September ability to continue to trade as a going concern for the foreseeable 2012 should be the same as the rate adopted at 30 September future.
The directors have given this matter due consideration 2011 which is 0.85% lower than the effective interest rate when and have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the group the financial interest was acquired.
A 1% change to this discount financial statements on a going concern basis.
The main rate would either increase the carrying value by 6.7m or reduce considerations were as follows: the carrying value by 6.0m.
i Covenant compliance The groups core banking facility has We have considered the impact of changes to the vacation two covenants, being loan to value LTV and interest cover.
rate used in the cash flow model.
However, we do not consider At 30 September 2012 the LTV was 48.0% compared to a this to be a material risk and actual experience to date has been default level of 75% and the interest cover ratio was 3.0 times very close to the vacation assumption adopted in the model.
compared to a minimum requirement of 1.35 times.
The group Credit risk arises from the credit exposure relating to cash has other bank debt on which there are also covenant receipts from the financial instrument.
All of the cash receipts are requirements.
As at 30 September 2012, the group is operating payable by the Church Commissioners, a counterparty considered comfortably within these requirements.
The directors have to be low risk as they have no history of past due or impaired reviewed the groups financial projections covering a minimum amounts and there are no past due amounts outstanding at the period of at least 12 months beyond the date of signing of these year end.
financial statements, and which include covenant compliance Distinction between investment and trading property forecasts.
These projections show that the group will comfortably The group considers the intention at the outset when each meet its covenant requirements.
property is acquired in order to classify the property as either an ii Banking facilities The groups existing core facilities were investment or a trading property.
Where the intention is to either 840m on 30 September 2012, of which 745m were drawn.
trade the property or where the property is held for immediate The group had free cash balances plus available overdraft of sale upon receiving vacant possession within the ordinary course 31m and undrawn committed facilities of 117m at of business, the property is classified as trading property.
Where the intention is to hold the property for its long-term As has been demonstrated over the past few years, the group rental yield and or capital appreciation, the property is classified as is able to generate strong cash flows even in very difficult general an investment property.
The groups cash flow projections confirm that the group will remain well within its facilities for a minimum period of at least 12 months beyond the date of signing of these financial statements.
