Grainger plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group.
They are fide-consolidated from the a Basis of preparation date control ceases.
Grainger plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on It is a public limited liability company listed on the London Stock transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Exchange and the address of the registered office is given on Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where page 164.
The group financial statements consolidate those of necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the company and its subsidiaries, together referred to as the the group.
group, and equity account the groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The parent company financial statements present ii Goodwill and impairment The purchase method of accounting information about the company and not about its group.
is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
These financial statements for the year ended 30 September The cost of the acquisition is measured as the fair value of the 2012 have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed assets given and equity instruments issued.
Identifiable assets International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRIC acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 business combination are measured initially at their fair values applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The company has at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill represents the excess of the elected to prepare its company financial statements in accordance cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of with UK GAAP.
These are presented on pages 154 to 161. net identifiable assets including intangible assets of the acquired The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise entity at the date of acquisition.
If the cost of the acquisition is stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in the less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary group financial statements.
acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income The group financial statements have been prepared under the statement.
Costs attributable to an acquisition are expensed historical cost convention except for the following assets and in the consolidated income statement under the heading liabilities, and corresponding income statement accounts, which Other expenses.
are stated at their fair value: investment property, derivative Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included within this financial instruments and financial interest in property assets.
caption on the statement of financial position.
Goodwill on The preparation of financial statements in conformity with acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included in IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and investments in joint ventures and associates.
assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and of impairment testing and is tested annually for impairment and expenses.
Although these estimates are based on managements carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment best knowledge of the events and amounts involved, actual losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas relating to the entity sold.
where assumptions and estimates are significant to the iii Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are those entities consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 2. over whose activities the group has joint control, established by b Basis of consolidation contractual agreement.
Associates are all entities over which i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including special the group has significant influence but not control, generally purposes entities over which the group has the power accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the to govern the financial and operating policies generally voting rights.
Significant influence is the power to participate in accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the the financial and operating decisions of the investee but is not voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights control or joint control over those policies.
that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the group controls another entity.
