155 Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK accounting standards.
The company has taken the exemption allowed under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The loss for the year was 34.6m 2011 profit: 25.4m.
These financial statements present information about the company as an individual undertaking and not about its group.
The company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 Related Party Transactions, from the requirement to disclose such transactions on the grounds that it has presented its own consolidated financial statements.
b Accounting policies The company financial statements have been prepared under UK GAAP rather than under IFRS which has been adopted for group reporting.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the companys financial statements.
c Investment in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are carried at historical cost less provision for impairment based upon an assessment of the net recoverable amount of each investment.
To the extent that the assessment of recoverable amount improves, impairment provisions are reversed.
d Taxation Corporation tax is provided on taxable profits or losses at the current rate.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the accounts and their recognition in a tax computation.
In accordance with FRS 19 Deferred Tax, deferred tax is provided in respect of all timing differences that have originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date that may give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in future.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
e Own shares including treasury shares Transactions of The Grainger Trust Employee Trustee Company Limited and The Grainger Employee Benefit Trusts are included in the companys financial statements.
The purchase of shares in the company by each trust and any treasury shares bought back by the company are debited direct to equity.
f Convertible bond The 112m, 3.625% convertible bond due 2014 was issued in May 2007.
Unless previously redeemed, converted, purchased or cancelled the bond is convertible at any time up to 12 May 2014 into fully paid up ordinary shares at a conversion price of 4.70.
The convertible bond is a compound financial instrument and the carrying amount has been allocated to its equity and liability components in the companys balance sheet.
The liability component has been determined by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated equity component.
The discount rate used for this was based on a rate of 7.5% compounded semi-annually.
The liability component has been deducted from the fair value of the compound financial instrument as a whole and the residual element has been assigned to the equity component.
The liability element is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
g Share-based payments Under the share-based compensation arrangements set out in note 1 k iii on page 87 and note 32 on pages 142 to 144, employees of Grainger Employees Limited have been awarded options and conditional shares in the company.
These share-based arrangements have been treated as equity-settled in the consolidated financial statements.
In the company accounts the share-based payment charge has been added to the cost of investment in subsidiaries with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
