Company Financial Statements 123 Accounting Policies of theCompany The costs of pension plans and other post-retirement benefits are Accounting Policies charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the costs Basis of Accounting over employees working lives within the Company.
The The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as contribution levels are determined by valuations undertaken by required by the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have independent qualified actuaries.
been prepared using the historical cost convention adjusted for the revaluation of certain fixed assets and in accordance with applicable Share-based payments United Kingdom accounting standards and law.
The Company operates a number of cash and equity-settled shareThe financial statements have been prepared on a going based compensation plans.
The fair value of the compensation is concern basis in accordance with the rationale set out in the directors recognised in the profit and loss account as an expense.
The total statement of going concern on page 75 of the Directors Report.
amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from reference to the fair value of the options granted and calculated preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1, Cash flow using the valuation technique most appropriate to each type of statements.
The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 8, award.
These include Black-Scholes calculations and Monte Carlo Related party disclosures, from disclosing related party transactions simulations.
For cash-settled options, the fair value of the option is with wholly owned subsidiaries of BBA Aviation plc.
The Company revisited at each balance sheet date.
For both cash and equityhas taken full advantage of the exemption to provide financial settled options, the Company revises its estimates of the number of instrument disclosures under the terms of FRS 29, Financial options that are expected to become exercisable at each balance instruments: Disclosures.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the current and preceding Tangible fixed assets periods.
Plant and machinery are stated in the balance sheet at cost.
Land and buildings are stated at cost.
Other tangible fixed assets are stated in Investments the balance sheet at cost.
Depreciation is provided on the cost of In the Companys financial statements, investments in subsidiary and tangible fixed assets less estimated residual value and is calculated associated undertakings are stated at cost less provision for on a straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives of impairment.
the assets: Treasury Land Not depreciated Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the Buildings 40 years maximum rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and Plant and machinery including essential liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet commissioning costs 3-18 years date are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are categorised to the date of transaction is recognised in the profit and loss account.
within plant and machinery in note 3 of the accounts.
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group The revaluation reserve consists of the surpluses on the comprise interest rates swaps, cross currency or basis swaps and revaluation of land and buildings to their market value for existing foreign exchange contracts.
All such instruments are used for use and on the revaluation of plant and machinery to net current hedging purposes to manage the risk profile of an underlying replacement cost.
The directors are not aware of any material change exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management to the value of these assets since the last revaluation.
All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments Leases depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights the type of exposure it is designed to hedge.
similar to ownership finance leases, the assets are treated as if they The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges had been purchased and the leasing commitments are shown as are deferred in equity until the impact from the hedged item is obligations to the lessors.
The capitalisation values of the assets are recognised in the profit and loss account.
The ineffective portion of written off on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the periods of such gains and losses is recognised in the profit and loss account the leases or the useful lives of the assets concerned.
elements of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while Gains or losses on the qualifying part of net investment the interest elements are charged to the profit and loss account over hedges are recognised in equity together with the gains and losses the period of the leases to produce a constant rate of charge on the on the underlying net investment.
The ineffective portion of such balance of capital payments outstanding.
gains and losses is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments Taxation that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the profit The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes and loss account as they arise.
into account taxation deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Deferred tax is provided in full on all liabilities.
In accordance with FRS The Company provides pension arrangements to the majority of full 19, deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is regarded that time employees through the Companys defined benefit scheme.
It it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is not possible to identify the share of underlying assets and liabilities assets and liabilities have not been discounted.
in this scheme which is attributable to the Company on a consistent Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from and reasonable basis.
Therefore the Company has applied the the sale or revaluation of fixed assets unless, at the balance sheet provisions in FRS17 to account for the scheme as if it was a defined date, a binding commitment to sell the asset has been entered into contribution scheme.
and it is unlikely that any gain will qualify for rollover relief.
