Company Financial Statements 121 Independent Auditors Report Matters on which we are required to report by exception Independent Auditors Report We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters to the members of BBA Aviation plc where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in We have audited the parent company financial statements of BBA our opinion: Aviation plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise adequate accounting records have not been kept by the the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the accounting policies and parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not the related notes 1 to 12.
The financial reporting framework that been received from branches not visited by us: or has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United the parent company financial statements and the part of the Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Accepted Accounting Practice.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies are not made: or Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might we have not received all the information and explanations we state to the Companys members those matters we are required require for our audit.
to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Other matter responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, BBA Aviation plc for the year ended 31 December 2012. or for the opinions we have formed.
Nigel Mercer Senior statutory auditor Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation London, United Kingdom of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied 28 February 2013 that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
