Consolidated Financial Statements 83 Accounting Policies depends on the entitys business model for managing its financial Accounting Policies instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the Basis of accounting instrument.
For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the The financial statements have been prepared using the historical IAS 39 requirements.
The main change is that, in cases where the cost convention adjusted for the revaluation of certain financial fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set value change due to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in other out below which have been consistently applied with the prior comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless year except where noted.
this creates an accounting mismatch.
The Group is yet to assess The financial statements have been prepared in accordance IFRS 9s full impact.
The Group will also consider the impact of the with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted remaining phases of IFRS 9 when they are completed.
for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, builds on of the EU IAS Regulation.
They have also been prepared in existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting determining factor in whether an entity should be included Standards Board.
within the Consolidated Financial Statements of the parent There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective company.
The standard provides additional guidance to assist for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
1January 2012 that would be expected to have a material impact The Group is yet to assess IFRS 10s full impact.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of interest in other entities, includes the A number of new standards and amendments to standards disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles after 1 January 2012, and have not been applied in preparing and other off balance sheet vehicles.
The Group is yet to assess these Consolidated Financial Statements.
None of these are IFRS 12s full impact.
expected to have a significant effect on the Consolidated Financial There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not Statements of the Group, except for the following set out below: yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on Amendment to IAS 1, Financial statement presentation the Group.
The main change resulting from these amendments is a requirement for entities to Basis of consolidation group items presented in other comprehensive income OCI on The Group financial statements incorporate the financial the basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to profit or statements of the parent company and all subsidiary undertakings loss subsequently reclassification adjustments.
The amendments under the acquisition method of accounting.
do not address which items are presented in OCI.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, aims to improve during the year are included in the Consolidated Income consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise Statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement effective date of disposal as appropriate.
Control is achieved and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements, where the Company has the power to govern the financial and which are largely aligned between IFRSs and US GAAP, do not operating policies of an investee so as to obtain benefits from extend to the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance activities.
on how it should be applied where its use is already required or Goodwill on acquisitions, being the excess of the fair value permitted by other standards within IFRSs or US GAAP.
of the consideration paid, the non-controlling interest, and the fair IAS 19, Employee benefits, was amended in June 2011 and value of any previously held equity interest in the acquiree over is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January the fair value of the identifiable net assets and liabilities acquired, 2013.
The principal impact for the Group will be that the concepts is capitalised and tested for impairment on an annual basis.
of expected return on assets and interest expense on the defined Associated undertakings are those investments other than benefit obligation as separate components of defined benefit subsidiary undertakings where the Group is in a position to cost will be replaced by a concept that interest will be calculated exercise a significant influence, typically through participation in on the net of the defined benefit obligation, after allowance for the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The any asset ceilings and additional liability under IFRIC 14.
If this Consolidated Financial Statements include the Groups share of concept had been adopted by the Group in 2012, it is estimated the post-acquisition reserves of all such companies.
that underlying profit before tax would have been $5.2 million lower and adjusted basic EPS 1.1 cents per share lower.
Going concern IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, The directors have, at the time of approving the financial measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the liabilities.
IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 and October 2010.
Group have adequate resources to continue in operational It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 requires financial the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial assets to be classified into two measurement categories: those statements.
Further detail is contained in the directors statement measured as at fair value and those measured at amortised cost.
of going concern on page 75 of the Directors Report.
The determination is made at initial recognition.
The classification Consolidated Financial Statements 84 Accounting Policies Financial statements relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately, and Accounting Policies continued 77 Independent Auditors Report to is included in the operating profit of the income statement.
Gains the members of BBA Aviation plc Investments in associates and losses deferred in the foreign currency translation reserve are 78 Consolidated Income Statement In the Groups financial statements, investments in associated recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
79 Consolidated Statement of undertakings are stated at cost plus the Groups share of postChanges in the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts Comprehensive Income acquisition reserves less provision for impairment.
classified as fair value through profit or loss FVTPL and those that 80 Consolidated Balance Sheet do not qualify for hedge accounting, are recognised in the income 81 Consolidated Cash Flow Foreign currencies statement as they arise, and are included in the operating profit of Statement Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the entitys the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of the interest 82 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity functional currency at the rate of exchange at the date of the rate swaps classified as FVTPL are charged to the net interest line 83 Accounting Policies of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other of the income statement.
the Group currencies at the balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of 88 Notes to the Consolidated exchange prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from a Financial instruments Financial Statements change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of transaction is Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the 121 Independent Auditors Report to recognised in the income statement.
Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the the members of BBA Aviation plc The income statements of operations outside of the US are contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are 122 Company Balance Sheet translated into US dollars at the average exchange rates for the accounted for at the trade date.
123 Accounting Policies of theCompany year and their balance sheets are translated into US dollars at the 124 Notes to the Company exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange Cash and cash equivalents Financial Statements differences arising on consolidation are recognised in other Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deemed 129 Principal Subsidiary and comprehensive income.
All other translation differences are taken deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are Associated Undertakings to the income statement, with the exception of differences on readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to 130 Five Year Summary foreign currency borrowing and derivative instruments to the an insignificant risk of changes in value.
131 Shareholder Information extent that they are used to provide a hedge against the Groups equity investments in overseas operations, which are recognised Trade receivables in other comprehensive income together with the exchange Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their difference on the net investment in those operations.
nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the irrecoverable amounts.
acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according Operating profit to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An Operating profit is stated after charging exceptional items and equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest after the share of results of associates but before investment in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Exceptional items are items which are material or nonBorrowings recurring in nature, costs relating to acquisitions and the Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair amortisation of acquired intangibles.
value which equates to proceeds less direct issue costs at inception.
Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise method, except where they are identified as a hedged item in a interest rates swaps, cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange fair value hedge.
Any difference between the proceeds net of contracts.
All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to transaction costs and the amount due on settlement is recognised manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in in the income statement over the term of the borrowings.
line with the Groups risk management policies.
All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
Trade payables Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments depends Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and the type nominal value.
of exposure it is designed to hedge.
The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges Equity instruments is recognised in other comprehensive income until the impact Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the from the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
The proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
ineffective portion of such gains and losses is recognised in the income statement immediately, and is included in the other gains Revenue recognition and losses line of the income statement.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received Hedges of net investments in non US dollar territories are or receivable, and represents amounts receivable for goods accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the supplied and services provided by the Group excluding hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge intercompany transactions, sales by associated undertakings and is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss sales taxes.
Consolidated Financial Statements 85 Accounting Policies Within the engine overhauls business, turnover and associated Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction profit are recognised on a percentage of completion basis once of major items of property, plant and equipment are capitalised as the terms of the contract have been agreed with the customer part of those assets.
The commencement of capitalisation begins and the ultimate profitability of the contract can be determined when both finance costs and expenditures for the asset are being with reasonable certainty.
The percentage of completion is incurred and activities that are necessary to get the asset ready generally based on hours incurred compared to managements foruse are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially best estimate of the total hours of production.
allthe activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are complete.
Research and development expenditure Research expenditure is charged against income in the year in Impairment of assets which it is incurred.
An internally generated intangible asset At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying value arising from the Groups development expenditure is recognised of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is only if the asset can be separately identified, it is probable that the any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
asset will generate future economic benefits and the development If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is costs of the asset can be measured reliably.
estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are Post-retirement benefits independent from other assets, the Group estimates the Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the charged as an expense as they fall due.
An intangible asset with an indefinite life is tested For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost is for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial the asset may be impaired.
valuations being carried out annually on 31 December.
Actuarial Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future occur.
They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax the statement of comprehensive income.
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time The service cost of providing retirement benefits to value of money.
The risks specific to the asset are reflected as an employees during the year is charged to operating profit in the adjustment to the future estimated cash flows.
Any past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its become vested.
An impairment loss is recognised The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance immediately.
sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased reduced by the fair value of scheme assets plus any additional to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the liability to be recognised in accordance with IFRIC 14 and the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount minimum funding requirement.
Any asset resulting from this that would have been determined had no impairment loss been calculation is only recognised to the extent that it is recoverable.
recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
Defined benefit scheme contribution levels are determined Excluding goodwill, a reversal of an impairment loss is recognised by valuations undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment Property, plant and equipment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Property, plant and equipment is stated in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairments.
Intangible assets Depreciation is provided on the cost of property, plant and Licences and contracts, other than manufacturing licences within equipment less estimated residual value and is calculated on a our Legacy Support business, are shown at amortised cost which straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives of is provided for on a straight-line basis over their useful life.
Within the assets: our Legacy Support business we acquire licences from OEMs to become the alternate OEM for that product.
The underlying platform often has an indeterminable remaining lifespan on Land Not depreciated acquisition.
In this instance the licence is not amortised until Buildings 40 years maximum management has sufficient visibility over the remaining life of the Fixtures and equipment including associated platform, which is typically 20 years, at which point essential commissioning costs 3-18 years amortisation commences over the remaining useful life of the licence on a straight-line basis.
Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are categorised Where computer software is not an integral part of a related within fixtures and equipment.
item of computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset.
Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific Consolidated Financial Statements 86 Accounting Policies Financial statements simulations.
For cash-settled options, the fair value of the option is Accounting Policies continued 77 Independent Auditors Report to revisited at each balance sheet date.
For both cash and equitythe members of BBA Aviation plc software.
Amortisation is provided on the cost of software and is settled options, the Group revises its estimates of the number of 78 Consolidated Income Statement calculated on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the options that are expected to become exercisable at each balance 79 Consolidated Statement of software.
Comprehensive Income The Group makes an assessment of the fair value of 80 Consolidated Balance Sheet intangible assets arising on acquisitions.
An intangible asset will Leases 81 Consolidated Cash Flow be recognised as long as the asset is separable or arises from Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights Statement contractual or other legal rights, and its fair value can be measured similar to ownership finance leases, the assets are treated as if 82 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity reliably.
Amortisation is provided on the fair value of the asset and they had been purchased and the leasing commitments are 83 Accounting Policies of is calculated on a straight-line basis over its useful life.
shown as obligations to the lessors.
The capitalisation values of the Group the assets are written off on a straight line basis over the shorter of 88 Notes to the Consolidated Provisions the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the assets concerned.
Financial Statements Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation The capital elements of future leases are recorded as liabilities, 121 Independent Auditors Report to legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that while the interest elements are charged to the income statement the members of BBA Aviation plc the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable over the period of the leases to produce a constant rate of charge 122 Company Balance Sheet estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
on the balance of capital payments outstanding.
123 Accounting Policies of theCompany The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate For all other leases operating leases the rental payments 124 Notes to the Company of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over Financial Statements the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and the lives of the leases.
129 Principal Subsidiary and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is Associated Undertakings measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present Inventory 130 Five Year Summary obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises the cost of raw materials and an appropriate When some or all of the economic benefits required to proportion of labour and overheads in the case of work in progress settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, and finished goods.
Cost is calculated using the first in first out a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that method in the Flight Support segment, and weighted average reimbursement will be received on settlement of a related method in the Aftermarket Services segment.
Provision is made provision and the amount of the receivable can be measured for slow moving or obsolete inventory as appropriate.
Taxation Restructurings The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has takes into account taxation deferred due to temporary differences developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has between the treatment of certain items for taxation and raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the accounting purposes.
Current tax is calculated at tax rates which restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance main features to those affected by it.
restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax with the ongoing activities of the entity.
bases in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Onerous contracts No provision is made for temporary differences on Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures or recognised and measured as provisions.
An onerous contract is associates where the Group has control and the reversal of the considered to exist where the Group has a contract under which temporary difference is not foreseeable.
the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no under it.
longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Share-based payments Deferred tax is calculated at tax rates which have been The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled shareenacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and based compensation plans.
The fair value of the compensation is that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is recognised in the income statement as an expense.
The total settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged reference to the fair value of the options granted and calculated or credited to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt using the valuation technique most appropriate to each type of with in equity.
These include Black-Scholes calculations and Monte Carlo Consolidated Financial Statements 87 Accounting Policies Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Taxation The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources As part of the process for preparing the Groups financial of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a statements, management is required to calculate income tax significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying accruals.
This process involves estimates of the current tax amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are exposures together with assessing temporary differences discussed below.
The judgements used by management in the resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting application of the Groups accounting policies in respect of these purposes.
These differences result in deferred tax assets and key areas of estimation are considered to be the most significant.
liabilities, which are included in the balance sheet.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had a corporate tax Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant liability of $96.1 million 2011: $86.1 million.
While the Group aims and equipment to ensure the accruals for its tax liabilities are accurate, the process Determining whether goodwill, intangible assets or property, of agreeing tax liabilities with the tax authorities can take several plant and equipment are impaired requires an estimation of the years.
Management judgement is therefore required in value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill determining the provision for income tax and the recognition of has been allocated or the individual assets.
The value in use deferred tax assets and liabilities: however the actual tax liabilities calculation requires the entity to estimate future cash flows could differ from the amounts accrued.
expected to arise from the cash-generating unit or asset and a As at 31 December 2012, the Group had a deferred tax suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The liability of $82.0 million 2011: $84.1 million.
carrying amounts of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment at the balance sheet date were $834.7 Provisions million 2011: $806.6 million, $174.1 million 2011: $176.2 million The Group exercises judgement in measuring and recognising and $511.5 million 2011: $517.4 million respectively.
Details provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related to regarding the goodwill and property, plant and equipment pending litigation or other outstanding claims subject to carrying values and assumptions used in carrying out the negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government impairment reviews are provided in notes 8 and 9. regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities see note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Judgement is necessary in Pensions and other post-retirement benefits assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a Determining the defined benefit obligation and the income liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the financial statement charge in respect of pension and other post-retirement settlement.
Because of the inherent uncertainty in this evaluation benefit schemes requires an estimation of certain assumptions process, actual losses may be different from the originally which include the discount rate, inflation rate, mortality, length estimated provision.
ofservice and the expected return on assets.
These assumptions are determined having taken advice from qualified actuaries.
The net pension liability related to defined benefit type schemes at the balance sheet date was $66.3 million 2011: $53.5 million.
Details regarding the carrying value and assumptions used in arriving at the carrying values are provided in note 19.
