Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 81 Other Information Shareholder Information ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM This section is important.
If you are in any doubt as to what action to take you should consult an appropriate independent financial adviser.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in Bellway p. l. c. you should pass this document and all accompanying documents to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
SPECIAL BUSINESS Five resolutions will be proposed as special business at the forthcoming AGM.
The effect of these resolutions is as follows: Resolution 12 Adoption of a new Savings Related Share Option Scheme This resolution, which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, seeks shareholders approval for the introduction of a new HMRevenue and Customs approved save-as-you-earn share option scheme to replace the existing plan, the Bellway p. l. c. 2003 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, under which further options cannot be granted after 9 January 2013.
A summary of the principal details of the new 2013 Savings Related Share Option Scheme the Scheme is set out on page 82.
A copy of the draft rules of the Scheme will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of Dickinson Dees LLP, Gate House, 1 Farringdon Street, London EC4M 7LG from the date of publication of this notice up to and including the date of the AGM and also for fifteen minutes prior to the AGM until the close of the AGM.
Resolution 13 Authority to directors to issue shares This is an ordinary resolution which authorises the directors to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 5,061,300, which is equivalent to approximately one-third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 15 October 2012, and also gives the directors authority to allot, by way of rights issue only, ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 10,122,600 which is equivalent to approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 15 October 2012, such authority, if granted, to expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
As at 15 October 2012 the Company held no shares as treasury shares.
At present, the directors only intend to use this authority to satisfy the exercise of awards under the Companys share schemes.
The directors wish to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments can be made if required and if suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene a general meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
Resolution 14 Disapplication of pre-emption rights This is a special resolution and is the customary annual request, in substitution for the authority granted to the directors by shareholders on 13 January 2012 which expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM, that shareholders empower the directors to allot ordinary shares for cash without first offering them pro rata to existing shareholders as would otherwise be required by section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 a in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer and b otherwise than in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer up to an aggregate nominal value of 759,195, being approximately equal to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 15 October 2012.
Resolution 15 Companys purchase of its own shares The Companys authority to purchase its own ordinary and preference shares, given at the last AGM, expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
This authority was not used during the year.
The directors propose, as a special resolution, that it should be renewed for a further year to expire on the date of the next AGM.
The directors will review opportunities to use this authority in light of stock market conditions and trading opportunities during the year.
The directors will only make purchases which will reduce the number of shares in issue after paying due attention to the effect on the financing of the Group, its assets and earnings per share for the remaining shareholders.
Any shares purchased under this authority may be cancelled in which case the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly or may be held in treasury.
Resolution 16 Length of notice of meeting Shareholder approval for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs to be held on 14 days notice, given at the last AGM, expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
There is no current intention to use this authority and the Company will only consider using this authority where it is considered that this would be for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
Recommendation Your directors consider each of the resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do inrespect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 82 Other Information Shareholder Information continued SUMMARY OF THE PRINCIPAL DETAILS OF THE BELLWAY P. L. C. 2013 SAVINGS RELATED SHARE OPTION SCHEME THE SCHEME 1.
Eligibility All employees and full time directors of the Company and any participating subsidiaries who have been employed for a minimum period determined by the Board of directors of the Company shall be invited to participate in the Scheme.
Invitations may be made within the six-month period following approval of the Scheme by HM Revenue and Customs and thereafter, normally, in each year during the period of 42 days following the announcement of the Companys interim or final results.
Invitations may not be made more than 10 years after the date of adoption of the Scheme by the Company.
Invitees will be given not less than 14 days in which to decide whether to accept the invitation and, if they choose to accept the invitation, to decide how much per month they wish to save which shall be not less than 5, nor more than 250, per month under a savings arrangement which they will be required to take out at the same time as the option is granted to them.
Grant of options Where invitations are accepted, options will be granted by the Company not later than 30 days after the date of the invitations or not later than 42 days after that date, if the invitation is over-subscribed see paragraph 3 below.
No consideration shall be payable for the grant of an option.
Options may not be transferred.
Oversubscription The rules of the Scheme set out steps for scaling down applications in the event that an invitation is oversubscribed.
Exercise price The price at which participants may acquire ordinary shares will be not less than 80% of their middle market price quoted on theDaily Official List of the London Stock Exchange plc at close of dealings on the day immediately preceding the invitation date.
Limit on share capital No option may be granted to any participant which would cause the number of ordinary shares issued or remaining issuable byvirtue of options or other rights granted in the preceding 10 years under the Scheme or any other employee share scheme established by the Company to exceed 10% of the issued share capital at that time.
Exercise, lapse and exchange of options Options will normally be exercisable during the period of six months following the bonus date of the savings arrangement taken out by participants at the time options are granted.
Options normally lapse on cessation of employment.
However, exercise is permitted for a limited period following cessation of employment for specified good leaver reasons.
Exercise is also permitted on an amalgamation or takeover of the Company.
The number of ordinary shares which participants can acquire on exercise of their options cannot exceed the amount in cash terms that they have saved under their contract, together with any bonus or interest payable.
Adjustments With the prior approval of HM Revenue and Customs, the number of shares comprised in an option and or its exercise price may be adjusted if any capitalisation issue, offer by way of rights or any sub-division, reduction, consolidation or other variation of the Companys share capital takes place.
Rights attaching to shares The ordinary shares which are to be transferred or allotted and issued to a participant pursuant to the exercise of options will rank pari passu with all other issued ordinary shares, except for any rights determined by reference to a date preceding the date on which the option is exercised.
Amendments and general The Board of directors of the Company may at any time amend the rules of the Scheme provided that, in the case of amendments to the material advantage of participants relating to eligibility, limits on participation, the basis of determining a participants entitlement in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital and certain other amendments, the prior approval of the Company in general meeting has been obtained.
Such prior approval will not, however, be required for amendments made to obtain or maintain the approval of HM Revenue and Customs or to comply with the provisions of any existing or proposed legislation or to maintain favourable taxation treatment of any participating company or any participant.
No amendments shall have effect without the prior approval of HM Revenue and Customs.
Benefits provided are not pensionable.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 83 TAKEOVERS DIRECTIVE Where not provided in the Directors Report the following sets out the information required to be provided to shareholders in compliance with the Takeovers Directive.
Share capital The Companys total issued ordinary and preference share capital as at 31 July 2012 consisted of 121,450,797 ordinary shares of 12.5p each representing 43% of the Companys total issued share capital and 20,000,000 9.5% Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares 2014 of 1 each representing 57% of the Companys total issued share capital.
Further details of the issued capital of the Company and brief details of the rights in relation to the preference shares can be found in note 16 to the accounts.
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and preference shares in the Company are set out in the Articles of Association theArticles.
Copies of the Articles can be obtained from Companies House or by writing to the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares The restrictions on the transfer of shares are set out in the Articles.
In addition, in compliance with the FSA Listing Rules, Company approval is required for directors, certain employees and their connected persons to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
No person has special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
Rights in relation to the shares held in the employee benefit trust The voting rights on shares held in the Trust in relation to the Companys employee share schemes are exercisable by the trustees.
Restrictions on voting rights Details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights are set out in the Companys Articles.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Appointment and replacement of directors The Companys rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Articles and are summarised in the Directors Report on page 33.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all the directors are seeking annual re-election by shareholders, apart from Howard Dawe, who retires from the Board on 31 January 2013.
Amendments to the Companys Articles of Association The Company may amend its Articles by passing a special resolution at a general meeting of its shareholders.
Powers of the Board The business and affairs of the Company are managed by the directors, who may exercise all such powers of the Company as are not by law or by the Articles required to be exercised by the Company in general meetings.
Subject to the provisions of the Articles, all powers of the directors are exercised at meetings of the directors which have been validly convened and at which a quorum is present.
Allotment of shares During the year 602,666 new ordinary shares were issued to satisfy awards made under the Companys employee share schemes.
The directors have authority to allot shares within limits agreed by shareholders.
Details of the renewal of this authority are set out on page 81, and Resolutions 13 and 14 in the Notice of Meeting of the AGM to be held on 11 January 2013 on pages 86 and 87 seek to renew this authority.
Purchase of own shares The Company has not purchased any of its own shares during the year.
The directors have authority to purchase the Companys own shares within limits agreed by shareholders.
Details of the renewal of this authority are set out on page 81, and Resolution 15 in the Notice of Meeting of the AGM to be held on 11 January 2013 on page 87 seeks to renew this authority.
Significant agreements change of control provisions The Company is party to a number of banking agreements which may be terminable in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Agreements for compensation for loss of office following a change of control The service agreements between the Company and Mr Watson and the Group Company Secretary contain provisions that entitle the individual to terminate the agreement following a takeover offer and receive an amount equivalent to one years salary, benefits and the average amount of the last two years annual bonus payment.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 84 Other Information Shareholder Information continued FINANCIAL CALENDAR Announcement of results and ordinary dividends Half year March Full year October Ordinary share dividend payments Interim July Final January Preference share dividend payments at the rate of 9.5% per annum paid half yearly April and October Annual report posted to shareholders November Final ordinary dividend ex-dividend date 12 December 2012 Final ordinary dividend record date 14 December 2012 AGM 11 January 2013 Final ordinary dividend payment date 16 January 2013 ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS BY SIZE OF HOLDING AT 31 JULY 2012 Holdings Shares Number % Holding % 0 2,000 1,727 69.64 1,123,272 0.92 2,001 10,000 423 17.06 1,783,724 1.47 10,001 50,000 137 5.52 3,336,640 2.75 50,001 and over 193 7.78 115,207,161 94.86 Total 2,480 100.00 121,450,797 100.00 DIVIDEND RE-INVESTMENT PLAN DRIP Shareholders may agree to participate in the Companys DRIP to receive dividends in the form of shares in Bellway p. l. c. instead of in cash.
For further information please e-mail Capita Registrars Limited at shares@capitaregistrars.
com or telephone 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
If calling from overseas please call 44 208 639 3399.
Lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm on Monday to Friday excluding Bank Holidays.
NON-STERLING BANK ACCOUNT If you reside outside the UK, or have a non-sterling bank account, Capita Registrars can now convert your dividend into your local currency and send you the funds by currency draft, or they may be able to pay them straight into your overseas bank account.
For further information on Capitas International Payment Service e-mail Capita Registrars Limited at IPS@capitaregistrars.
Lines are open from 9.00 am to 5.30 pm London time on Monday to Friday excluding Bank Holidays.
SHARE DEALING SERVICE The Companys registrars, Capita Registrars Limited, provide a share dealing service to existing shareholders to buy or sell the Companys shares.
Online and telephone dealing facilities provide an easy to access and simple to use service.
For further information on this service, or to buy or sell shares, please contact: www.
com for online dealing, or telephone 0871 664 0364 for telephone dealing.
Please note that the directors of the Company are not seeking to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell their shares in the Company.
Shareholders in any doubt as to what action to take are recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial adviser, authorised under the terms of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 85 DISCOUNT T O SHAREHOLDERS The following discount arrangement is currently available to shareholders.
Should you intend to purchase a new Bellway home, you will be entitled to a discount of 2,000 per 25,000, or pro rata on part thereof, of the purchase price provided that: a you have been the registered holder of at least 2,000 ordinary shares for a minimum period of 12 months prior to the reservation ofyour new home: and b you inform our sales representative on-site when reserving your property that you are claiming shareholder discount.
The above discount arrangement is only available to shareholders on the Companys Register of Members.
Employees of investing companies or members of investing institutions would not therefore be eligible.
Underlying beneficial shareholders would be entitled tobenefit from the arrangements.
For further details please contact the Group Company Secretary, Bellway p. l. c. Seaton Burn House, Dudley Lane, Seaton Burn, Newcastleupon Tyne NE13 6BE, telephone 0191 217 0717 or e-mail investor.
BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES WITH INFORMATION RIGHTS Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares rather than tothe Companys registrar, Capita Registrars Limited, or to the Company directly.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTING Further reporting on the Companys Corporate Responsibility activities is available to view in the Corporate Responsibility section oftheGroups website www.
