Shareholder information Key dates for 2013 Date Annual General Meeting 8 May Financial half year end 30 June Announcement of half year results August Website Professional advisers and service providers Visit our investor relations website www.
com for full up to Solicitors date investor relations information, including the latest share price, CMS Cameron McKenna LLP recent annual and half year reports, results presentations and Mitre House financial news.
160 Aldersgate Street London Shareholder enquiries EC1A 4DD For shareholder enquiries please contact our Registrars, Equiniti.
For general enquiries please call our Shareholder Registrars Services helpline on: 0871 384 2018 overseas holders need Equiniti to ring 44 0 121 415 7047.
Calls to Equinitis 0871 numbers Aspect House are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
Other Spencer Road telephony service providers costs may vary.
Lines are open Lancing from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding West Sussex bankholidays.
For further administrative queries in respect of BN99 6DA your shareholding please access our Registrars website at www.
co. uk Auditors  LLP Electronic communications 1 Embankment Place If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications London WC2N 6RH electronically in future, including your annual and half-yearly reports and notices of meetings, please visit our Registrars Joint Stockbrokers website, www.
co. uk and follow the link to Sign up UBS Investment Bank for paper-free communications.
1 Finsbury Avenue London EC2M 2PP Half Year Report Like many other listed public companies, we no longer Numis Securities Ltd circulate printed Half Year reports to shareholders.
The London Stock Rather, Half Year results statements are published on the Exchange Building Companys website.
We believe that this is of benefit to those 10 Paternoster Square shareholders who do not wish to be burdened with such London EC4M 7LT paper documents, and to the Company, as it is consistent with our target of saving printing and distribution costs.
Principal Bankers Barclays Bank Plc 1 Churchill Place London E14 5HP Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially Certain statements included in this Annual Report are forwardfrom those estimated by the forward-looking statements include, looking and are therefore subject to risks, assumptions and but are not limited to: uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially Global economic business conditions: from those expressed or implied because they relate to future Monetary and interest rate policies: events.
These forward-looking statements include, but are not Foreign currency exchange rates: limited to, statements relating to the Companys expectations.
Equity and property prices: Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of The impact of competition, inflation: relevant terminology including the words: believes, estimates, Changes to regulations, taxes: anticipates, expects, intends, plans, goal, target, aim, may, Changes to consumer saving and spending habits: and will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or Our success in managing the above factors.
other variations or comparable terminology and include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance throughout this Annual Report and include statements regarding and results could differ materially from the plans, goals and our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and those of our expectations set out in our forward-looking statements.
The officers, directors and employees concerning, amongst other Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, prospects, growth, strategies and the businesses we operate.
112 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 This report is printed on Claro silk, which is 100% ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp and is 100% recyclable and sourced from carefully managed and renewed commercial forests, certified in accordance with the FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
The mill is ISO 14001 certified.
Our printers are fully accredited to the ISO 14001 environmental management system.
They utilise vegetable based inks and operate a direct computer to plate repro system, eliminating the need for film with its chemicals such as developer and acid fixers.
Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140 www.
co. uk Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Savills plc 20 Grosvenor Hill Berkeley Square London W1K 3HQ T: 44 0 20 7499 8644 F: 44 0 20 7495 3773 Registered in England No.
