Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors responsibility statement the Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements The Directors confirm that pursuant to DTR4, to the best of each in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
persons knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial have prepared the Group and parent company financial position and profit of the Group: and statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting the Statutory Information contained on pages 43 and 44 Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under includes a fair review of the development and performance company law the Directors must not approve the financial of the business and the position of the Group, together with statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of it faces.
the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: On behalf of the Board select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Jeremy Helsby consistently: Group Chief Executive make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Chris Lee state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Group Legal Director & Company Secretary Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
13 March 2013 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
58 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012
