Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 1.
General information Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control Savills plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the Group is a leading international property advisory Group.
The date that control ceases.
Group operates through a network of offices in the UK, Europe, Asia Pacific and the US.
Savills is listed on the London Stock The Group applies the acquisition method of accounting to Exchange and employs 25,016 staff worldwide.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets The Company is a public limited company incorporated and transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value office is 20 Grosvenor Hill, Berkeley Square, London W1K 3HQ.
of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are by the Board of Directors on 13 March 2013. measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on 2.
Accounting policies an  basis, either at fair value or at the The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated, and are also applicable to the parent Company.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Basis of preparation If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition These financial statements have been prepared in accordance date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and IFRIC the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those through profit or loss.
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and for deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration that is classified of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, accounted for within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis the consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling and under the historical cost convention as modified by the interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities revaluation of available for sale investments and derivative assumed.
If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the financialinstruments.
net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss.
Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include those of the Inter-company transactions, balances, income and expenses on Company and its subsidiary undertakings, together with the transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Profits Groups share of results of its associates and joint ventures.
and losses resulting from inter-company transactions that are recognised in assets are also eliminated.
Accounting policies Subsidiaries of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more Investments in subsidiaries held by the Company are held at cost, than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of less any provision for impairment.
potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls Non-controlling interests Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in another entity.
The Group also assesses existence of control loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, where it does not have more than 50% of the voting power but as transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners.
The is able to govern the financial and operating policies by virtue of difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the fide-facto control.
fide-facto control may arise in circumstances relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the where the size of the Groups voting rights relative to the size subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to and dispersion of holdings of other shareholders give the Group non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
the power to govern the financial and operating policies.
66 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results When the Group ceases to have control or significant influence, Segment reporting any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purpose of maker.
The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously segments, has been identified as the Group Executive Board.
recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged of the related assets or liabilities.
This may mean that amounts in providing products or services that are subject to risks and previously recognised in other comprehensive income are returns that are different from those of other business segments.
reclassified to profit or loss.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that is subject If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant to risks and returns that are different from those of segments influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts operating in other economic environments.
previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
As the Group is strongly affected by both differences in the types of services it provides and the geographical areas in which it Associates operates, the matrix approach of disclosing both the business Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant and geographical segments formats is used.
influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in Revenues and expenses are allocated to segments on the basis associates are accounted for using the equity method and are that they are directly attributable or the relevant portion can be initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates allocated on a reasonable basis.
includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition see Note 16 a.
Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups or losses is recognised in the income statement and its share of entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
recognised in other comprehensive income.
The cumulative postThe consolidated financial statements are presented inSterling, acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount which is also the Companys functional and presentation currency.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including Transactions and balances any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional further losses unless it has incurred legal or constructive currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income the associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the as qualifying net investment hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and Accounting policies of associates have been aligned to ensure liabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Gains and recognised in the income statement, except for available-for-sale losses on dilution of the Groups share of equity in associates are equity investments, which are recognised in other comprehensive recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary items carried at historical cost are reported using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more The differences between retained profits of foreign subsidiaries parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint and associated undertakings translated at average and closing rates of exchange are taken to reserves, as are differences arising control, which exists only when the strategic financial and on the retranslation of foreign net assets to Sterling at the end of operating decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous the year using closing rates of exchange.
Any differences that consent of the venturers.
The Groups joint ventures are have arisen since 1 January 2004 are presented as a separate accounted for using the equity method.
As permitted under IFRS 1, any differences prior to that date are not included in this separate component of equity.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 67 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued When a foreign operation is sold, exchange differences that were Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis recorded in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments software.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by Property, plant and equipment the Group are recognised as intangible assets when the following Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less criteria are met: accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes expenditure directly attributable to acquisition.
it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that it will be available for use: Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or m anagement intends to complete the software product and recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is use or sell it: probable that the future economic benefits associated with the th ere is an ability to use or sell the software product: item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be i t can be demonstrated how the software product will measured reliably.
generate probable future economic benefits: ad equate technical, financial and other resources to complete Provision for depreciation is made at rates calculated on a straightthe development and to use or sell the software product are line basis to write off the assets over their estimated useful lives available: and asfollows: th e expenditure attributable to the software product during its development can be reliably measured.
Freehold property 50 years Leasehold property less than 50 years over unexpired Measurement subsequent to initial recognition is at cost less term of lease accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Furniture and office equipment 3 6 years Intangible assets are tested for impairment where there is an Motor vehicles 3 5 years indication that an asset may be impaired.
An impairment loss is Computer equipment 3 5 years recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets fair value less cost to sell and its value-in-use.
Useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each Amortisation charges are spread on a straight-line basis over the reporting date.
period of the assets estimated useful lives as follows: An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its Computer software 3 5 years recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than Property management contracts 2 10 years its estimated recoverable amount.
Incremental contract costs 10 years Business and customer relationships 6 10 years Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a Brands 5 years subsidiary or associate over the Groups share of the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
Impairment of other non-financial assets Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to In respect of associates, goodwill is included in the carrying value amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever an indicator of impairment exists.
An impairment loss Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
is recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment, higher of the assets fair value less cost to sell and its value-in-use.
or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not Value-in-use is determined using the discounted cash flow reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include method, with an appropriate discount rate to reflect market rates the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
and specific risks associated with the asset.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cashat the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are cash flows cash-generating units.
Where it is not possible to expected to benefit from the business combination in which the estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group goodwill arose.
The Group allocates goodwill to each business estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to segment in the geographical region in which it operates Note 14. which the asset belongs.
Intangible assets other than goodwill Financial instruments Intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations and Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups incremental contract costs are valued at fair value on acquisition and statement of financial position at fair value when the Group amortised over the useful life.
Fair value on acquisition is determined becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
by third-party valuation where the acquisition is significant.
Subsequent measurement depends on the classification and is discussed in the following paragraphs.
68 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results Available-for-sale investments Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting.
In these Available-for-sale investments are stated at fair value, with cases, changes in the fair value of all derivative instruments are changes in fair value being recognised in other comprehensive recognised immediately in the income statement.
When such investments are disposed or become impaired, the accumulated gains and losses, previously Gains and losses relating to the effective portion of hedges of recognised in other comprehensive income, are recognised net investments in foreign operations are recognised in other in the income statement.
Gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Trade receivables Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and income statement when the foreign operation is partially subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for disposed or sold.
Receivables are discounted where the time value of money is material.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
When share to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, directly attributable costs, is recognised as a charge to equity.
probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are purchased for the Employee Benefit Trust, are classified as considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash Taxation flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised income or directly in equity.
In this case, the tax is also recognised in the income statement within other operating expenses.
When in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
a trade receivable is uncollected, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the of amounts previously written off are credited against other tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet operating expenses in the income statement.
date in the countries where the company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically Cash and cash equivalents evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It held on call with banks, together with other short-term highly liquid establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts investments with original maturities of three months or less and expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
working capital overdrafts, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are included under Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on borrowings in the statement of financial position.
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated Bank borrowings financial statements.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially measured recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: atfair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial measured at amortised cost using the effective interest recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a ratemethod.
business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or Trade payables substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected Trade payables are initially measured at fair value and to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
If not, they are Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that presented as non-current liabilities.
it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently on investments in subsidiaries and associates except for deferred remeasured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting income tax liability where the timing of the reversal of hetemporary gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 69 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there All equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed liabilities relate to income tax levied by the same taxation authority on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments is Pension obligations measured by the use of the Actuarial Binomial option pricing The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution model.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of plans.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all equity over the remaining vesting period.
The cash proceeds employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are and prior periods.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that credited to share capital nominal value and share premium defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive when the options areexercised.
on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors, such as age, years of service and compensation.
Employee Benefit Trust The Company has established the Savills plc 1992 Employee The liability recognised in the statement of financial position in Benefit Trust the EBT, the purposes of which are to grant respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the awards to employees, to acquire shares in the Company pursuant defined benefit obligation at the reporting date less the fair value of to the Savills Deferred Share Bonus Plan and the Savills Deferred plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually Share Plan and to hold shares in the Company for subsequent by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
transfer to employees on the vesting of the awards granted under The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined the schemes.
The assets and liabilities of the EBT are included in by discounting the estimated future cash outflows.
the Group statement of financial position.
Investments in the Groups own shares are shown as a deduction from equity.
The defined benefit scheme charge consists of interest costs, expected return on plan assets, past service costs and the impact Provisions of any settlements or curtailments and is charged as an expense Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or as they fall due.
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and the All actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date and are discounted to present The Group also operates a defined contribution Group Personal value where the effect is material.
Pension Plan for new entrants and a number of defined contribution individual pension plans.
Contributions in respect Professional indemnity claims ofdefined contribution pension schemes are charged to the Provisions on professional indemnity claims are recognised income statement when they are payable.
The Group has no when it is probable that the Group will be required to settle further payment obligations once the contributions have been claims against it as a result of a past event and the amount paid.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments isavailable.
Dilapidation provisions The Group is required to perform dilapidation repairs on leased The net defined benefit cost is allocated amongst participating properties prior to the properties being vacated at the end of their Group subsidiaries on the basis of pensionable salaries.
Provision for such cost is made where a legal obligation is identified and the liability can be reasonably quantified.
Share-based payments Onerous leases The Group operates equity-settled share-based compensation A provision is recognised where the costs of meeting the plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange obligations under a lease contract exceed the economic benefits for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
expected to be received and is measured as the net least cost of exiting the contract, being the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about any compensation or penalties arising from the failure to fulfil it.
the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over Restructuring provision which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
A provision is recognised when there is a present constructive At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimate obligation to meet the costs of restructure.
This arises when there of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the is a detailed formal plan for the restructuring, identifying at least revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with the business or part of the business concerned, principal locations a corresponding adjustment to equity.
affected and the location, function and approximate number of employees to be compensated for terminating their services.
70 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results Revenue Dividend income Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment receivable for the provision of services in the ordinary course of is established.
Revenue is shown net of value-added tax and amounts due to third parties and after elimination of revenue Other income within the Group.
Other income includes interest and dividend income on availablefor-sale investments plus fair value gains and losses on assets at Residential transactional fees fair value through profit or loss.
Generally, where contracts are unconditional, revenue is recognised on exchange of contracts.
However, on more complex Leases contracts, revenue will be recognised on the date of completion.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has On multi-unit developments, revenue is recognised on a staged substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified basis, based on each contract, commencing when the underlying as finance leases.
Finance lease assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to Commercial transactional fees the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum Generally, revenue is recognised on the date of completion or lease payments at inception of the lease.
The assets are then when unconditional contracts have been exchanged.
depreciated over the lower of the lease terms or the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Property consultancy Revenue in respect of property consultancy represents The capital elements of future obligations under finance leases are commissions and fees recognised on a time basis, fixed fee or included as liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Percentage of completion is principally payments comprise capital and finance elements and the finance measured by the proportion of actual costs incurred in relation element is charged to the incomestatement.
tothe best estimate of total costs expected for completion of thecontract.
The annual payments under all other lease agreements operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line Property and facilities management basis over the lease term.
Benefits received and receivable as an Revenue represents fees earned for managing properties and incentive to enter into the operating lease are also spread on a providing facilities and is generally recognised in the period the straight-line basis over the lease term.
services are provided using a straight-line basis over the term of thecontract.
A lease is classified as onerous where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic Investment management benefits expected to be received under it.
Revenue represents commissions and fees receivable, net of marketing costs in accordance with the relevant fee agreements.
Dividends Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the Groups Annual management fees are recognised, gross of costs, in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by period to which the service has been provided, in accordance the Companys shareholders.
with the contracted fee agreements.
Transaction fees are recognised on the date of completion of a purchase or sale Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Distribution fees are recognised on the completion of a signed subscription agreement and performance fees are Standards, amendments and interpretations to standards effective recognised as earned and when approved by the fund.
in 2012 There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the Work in progress first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2012 Work in progress generally relates to consultancy revenue and is that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 71 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued Standards, amendments and interpretations to standards that are I FRS 13, Fair value measurement, effective for accounting not yet effective and have not been early adopted by theGroup periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The standard The following standards and amendments to published standards aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source 1January 2013, and have not been early adopted: of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements do not extend the use of IA S 1 amendment, Financial statement presentation, fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should regarding other comprehensive income.
require entities to group items presented in other IA S 32 amendment, Financial instruments: Presentation, comprehensive income on the basis of whether they are regarding asset and liability offsetting, effective for accounting potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently and periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
These iseffective for accounting periods beginning on or after amendments are to the application guidance in IAS 32 and 1 July 2012. clarify some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets I AS 19 amendment, Employee benefits, effective for and financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
The amendments accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. are not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
These amendments changes a number of disclosure I FRS 9, Financial instruments.
This standard is the first step requirements for post employment arrangements and in the process to replace IAS 39, Financial instruments: restricts the options currently available on how to account for recognition and measurement.
The effective date has been defined benefit pension plans.
The most significant change delayed to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January that will impact the Group is that the amendment requires the 2015.
Early adoption is permitted, however, the standard has expected returns on pension plan assets, currently calculated not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The Group has yet to based on managements estimate of expected returns, to be assess IFRS 9s full impact.
replaced by a credit on the pension plan assets calculated at IAS 1 amendment, Financial statement presentation, the liability discount rate.
The Group estimates the adoption of distinguishes between minimum required comparative the revised IAS 19 would result in an additional charge to the information and voluntary additional comparative information.
income statement in the year ended 31 December 2012 of The amendment is effective for accounting periods beginning approximately 2.4 million.
The change does not impact the on or after 1 January 2013.
IA S 32 amendment, Financial instruments: Presentation, IF RS 7 amendment, Financial instruments: Disclosures, clarifies that income taxes arising from distributions to equity regarding asset and liability offsetting, effective for accounting holders are accounted for in accordance with IAS 12, Income periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The amendment is effective for accounting periods amendment includes new disclosures to facilitate comparison beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and is not expected to between those entities that prepare IFRS financial statements have a material impact on the Group.
to those that prepare financial statements in accordance with IA S 34 amendment, Interim Financial Reporting, aligns the US GAAP.
disclosure requirement for total segment assets and liabilities I FRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, effective for in interim financial statements with annual disclosures.
The accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. amendment is effective for accounting periods beginning on Thestandard establishes principles for the presentation and or after 1 January 2013 and is not expected to have an impact preparation of consolidated financial statements when an on the Group.
entity controls one or more other entities.
It defines the I AS 28 amendment, Investments in associates and joint principle of control and establishes this as the basis for ventures, includes requirements for joint ventures, as well consolidation.
The standard is not expected to have a material as associates, to be equity accounted following the issue of impact on the Group.
The amendment is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and is not expected to IF RS 11, Joint arrangements, effective for accounting periods have a material impact on the Group.
beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The standard defines I AS 27 amendment, Separate financial statements, includes two types of joint arrangements: joint operations and joint the provisions on separate financial statements that are left ventures, based on the rights and obligations of the parties to after the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the arrangement.
Proportional consolidation of joint ventures the new IFRS 10.
The amendment is effective for accounting will no longer be allowed and must be accounted for using the periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and is not equity method.
The standard is not expected to have a expected to have a material impact on the Group.
material impact on the Group.
IF RS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities, effective for Other standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The and not discussed above are not relevant to the Group.
standard sets out the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
72 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results Theseinclude: 3.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors I FRS 1, First time adoption, on repeated application of The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks.
IFRS1, effective for accounting periods beginning on or The Group has in place a risk management programme that after 1 January 2013. seeks to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance IAS12, Income taxes, on recovery of underlying assets, of the Group.
Occasionally, the Group uses financial instruments more specifically, of investment properties, effective for to manage foreign currency and interest rate risk.
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment, on classification The treasury function is responsible for implementing risk of spare parts, effective for accounting periods beginning management policies applied by the Group and has a policy and on or after 1 January 2013. procedures manual that sets out specific guidelines on financial IFRIC 20, Stripping costs in the production phase of a risks and the use of financial instruments to manage these.
surface mine, effective for accounting periods beginning Foreign exchange risk on or after 1 January 2013.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risks primarily with respect to the Euro, Hong Kong Use of non-GAAP measures dollar and US dollar.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future The Group believes that the consistent presentation of Underlying commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and profit before tax, Underlying effective tax rate, Underlying basic net investments in foreign operations.
The Group may finance earnings per share and Underlying diluted earnings per share some overseas investments through the use of foreign currency provides additional useful information to shareholders on the borrowings.
The Group does not actively seek to hedge risks underlying trends and comparable performance of the Group over arising from foreign currency translations due to their non-cash time.
They are used by Savills for internal performance analysis nature and the high costs associated with such hedging: however and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
These when there is a material committed foreign currency exposure the terms are not defined terms under IFRS and may therefore not be foreign exchange risk will be hedged.
comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, or The sensitivity analysis has been prepared for the major currencies superior to, GAAP measures.
to which the Group is exposed.
The movements in these currencies over the last three years has been considered and it has been The term underlying refers to the relevant measure of profit, concluded that a 5 10% movement in rates is a reasonable earnings or taxation being reported excluding the following items: benchmark.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, if the average currency Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets.
conversion rates against Sterling for the year had changed with all Impairment of investment in available-for-sale investments, other variables held constant, the Group post tax profit for the year joint ventures or associated undertakings.
would have increased or decreased as shown below: The difference between IFRS 2 charges related to in year profit related performance compensation subject to deferral Movement of currency against Sterling and the opportunity cash cost of such compensation refer to m 10% 5% 5% 10% Notes 7 and Note 13 b for further explanation.
Estimated impact on post-tax profit Significant acquisition costs related to business combinations Euro 0.8 0.4 0.5 1.0 Profits or losses on disposals of subsidiaries, investments in available-for-sale investments, joint ventures and associated Hong Kong dollar 0.8 0.4 0.4 0.9 undertakings.
US dollar 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.3 Exceptional items which are disclosed separately due to their Estimated impact on components of equity size or incidence.
Euro 4.0 2.1 2.3 4.9 Hong Kong dollar 10.3 5.4 6.0 12.6 A reconciliation between GAAP items and underlying results are set out in notes 7 and 13 b.
US dollar 0.5 0.3 0.3 0.6 2011 The underlying effective tax rate represents the underlying Estimated impact on post-tax profit effective income tax expense expressed as a percentage of Euro 0.6 0.3 0.3 0.7 underlying profit before tax.
The underlying effective income tax Hong Kong dollar 0.8 0.4 0.4 0.9 expense is the income tax expense excluding the tax effect of the US dollar 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 adjustments made to arrive at underlying profit before tax.
Estimated impact on components of equity Euro 3.7 1.9 2.1 4.5 Hong Kong dollar 8.1 4.3 4.7 10.0 US dollar 0.7 0.4 0.4 0.9 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 73 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued Price risk The table below shows Group cash balances split by counterparty The Group is not materially exposed to equity securities price risk ratings at the reporting date: because listed investments held on the statement of financial 2012 2011 position are not significant.
The Group is not exposed to Counterparty rating provided by S&P m m commodity price risk.
AA 52.6 38.1 A 16.4 22.2 Interest rate risk A 12.2 11.8 The Group has both interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits A 0.1 0.1 and bank borrowings, at both fixed and floating interest rates.
BBB or below 11.5 7.8 Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group cash flow to Total 92.8 80.0 interest rate risk, which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair Liquidity risk value interest rate risk.
Group policy is to maintain at least 70% of The Group maintains appropriate committed facilities to ensure its borrowings in fixed rate instruments.
the Group has sufficient funds available for operations and expansion.
The Group prepares an annual funding plan approved For the year ended 31 December 2012, if the average interest rate by the Board which sets out the Groups expected financing for the year had changed with all other variables held constant, the requirements for the next 12 months.
Group post tax profit for the year would have increased or decreased as shown below: Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserve comprising undrawn borrowing facilities Note 22 and Increase in interest rates m 0.50% 1.00% 1.50% 2.00% cash and cash equivalents Note 19 on the basis of expected cash flow.
This is carried out at local level in the operating 2012 companies of the Group in accordance with Group practice as Estimated impact on post-tax profit 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.5 well as on a Group consolidated basis.
2011 Estimated impact on post-tax profit 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.6 The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and netsettled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings Decrease in interest rates based on the remaining period from the reporting date to the m 0.50% 1.00% 1.50% 2.00% contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 2012 months equal their carrying balances, as the impact of discounting Estimated impact on post-tax profit 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.3 is not significant.
2011 Less than Between Between Estimated impact on post-tax profit 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.4 m 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 2012 Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative Borrowings 1.1 financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial Finance leases 0.1 institutions, as well as credit exposures to clients, including Derivative financial instruments 0.1 outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
The Group Trade and other payables 206.3 0.4 0.2 has policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential 207.6 0.4 0.2 customers before engaging with them.
A risk control framework is used to assess the credit quality of clients, taking into account financial position, past experience and other factors.
Less than Between Between m 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years Individual risk limits for banks and financial institutions are set 2011 based on external ratings and in accordance with limits set by Borrowings 6.2 the Board.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
Finance leases 0.1 0.1 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 As at the reporting date, no significant credit risk existed in relation Trade and other payables 181.1 8.8 0.2 to banking counterparties.
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period, and management does not expect any 187.5 8.9 0.2 losses from non-performance by these counterparties.
There Capital risk management were no other significant receivables or individual trade receivable The Groups objectives when managing capital are: balances as at 31 December 2012. t o safeguard the Groups ability to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders: and t o maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
74 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results Savills plc is not subject to any externally imposed capital Fair value estimation requirements, with the exception of its FSA regulated entities, The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that which complied with all capital requirements during the year are measured at fair value at 31 December 2012: ended 31 December 2012.
For more information on FSA capital adequacy requirements, please visit www.
m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2012 In order to maintain an optimal capital structure, the Group may Assets adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital Available-for-sale investments to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reducedebt.
Unlisted 15.0 15.0 The Board has put in place a distribution policy which takes into Total assets 15.0 15.0 account the degree of maintainability of Savills different profit streams and the Groups overall exposure to cyclical Transaction Liabilities Advisory profits, as well as the requirement to maintain a certain Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 level of cash resources for working capital and corporate Total liabilities 0.1 0.1 development purposes.
The Board will recommend an ordinary dividend broadly reflecting the profits derived from the Groups The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that less volatile businesses.
In addition, when profits from the cyclical are measured at fair value at 31 December 2011: Transaction Advisory business are strong, the Board will consider and, if appropriate, recommend the payment of a supplemental m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total dividend alongside the final ordinary dividend.
The value of 2011 any such supplemental dividend will vary depending on the Assets performance of the Groups Transaction Advisory business Available-for-sale investments and the Groups anticipated working capital and corporate Unlisted 14.4 14.4 development requirements through the cycle.
It is intended that, in normal circumstances, the combined value of the ordinary Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 and supplemental dividends declared in respect of any year are Total assets 14.5 14.5 covered at least 1.5 times by statutory retained earnings and or at least 2.0 times by underlying profits after taxation.
Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 The Groups policy is to borrow centrally if required to meet anticipated funding requirements.
These borrowings, together with Total liabilities 0.1 0.1 cash generated from operations, are then on-lent or contributed The fair value of unlisted available-for-sale investments is as equity to certain subsidiaries.
The Board of Directors monitors determined using valuation techniques using observable market a number of debt measures on a rolling forward 12 month basis data where available and rely as little as possible on entity including gross cash by location: gross debt by location: cash estimates.
The fair value of investment funds is based on subject to restrictions: total debt servicing cost to operating profit: underlying asset values determined by the Fund Managers gross borrowings as a percentage of EBITDA earnings before audited annual financial statements.
The fair value of other interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation : and forecast unlisted investments is based on price earnings models.
These headroom against available facilities.
These internal measures instruments are included in Level 2. indicate the levels of debt that the Group has and are closely monitored to ensure compliance with banking covenants and to The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined by confirm that the Group has sufficient unused facilities.
using valuation techniques using observable market data.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is based on the market The capital structure is as follows: value of similar instruments with similar maturities.
These Group Company instruments are included in Level 2. m 2012 2011 2012 2011 Equity 233.1 204.4 123.1 144.6 If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3.
Cash and cash Level 1 instruments are those whose fair values are based equivalents 92.8 80.0 21.2 15.8 on quoted market prices.
The Group has no Level 1 instruments.
Bank overdrafts 0.1 1.2 Borrowings 1.1 5.2 Net cash 91.6 73.6 21.2 15.8 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 75 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued 4.
Critical accounting estimates and management judgements Estimated impairment of assets Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are impairment.
All other assets are tested for impairment where there based on historical experience, current market conditions and are indicators of impairment.
other factors including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been may differ from these estimates.
Changes in accounting estimates determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this may be necessary if there are changes in circumstances on method requires the estimate of future cash flows expected to whichthe estimate was based, or as a result of new information arise from the continuing operation of the cash-generating unit or more experience.
The estimates and assumptions that have a and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying present value.
Actual outcomes could vary significantly from these amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are estimates.
The estimates used in these financial statements are discussed below.
Pension benefits Valuation of intangible assets and useful life The present value of the defined benefit pension obligations The Group has made assumptions in relation to the potential depends on a number of factors that are determined on an future cash flows to be determined from separable intangible actuarial basis using a number of assumptions including the assets acquired as part of business combinations.
Any changes in these assumptions will impact the assessment involves assumptions relating to potential future carrying amount of pension obligations.
The Group determines the revenues, appropriate discount rates and the useful life of such appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
These assumptions impact the income statement over the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest the useful life of the intangible asset.
rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to Provisions maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
The Group and its subsidiaries are party to various legal claims.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part Provisions made within these financial statements are contained on current market conditions.
Additional information is disclosed in Note 24 a.
Additional claims could be made which might not inNote 9. be covered by existing provisions or by insurance as detailed in Note28.
Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Critical judgements in applying the entitys accounting policies Judgement is required in determining the provision for income The application of the Groups accounting policies may require taxes.
There are transactions and calculations for which the management to make judgements, apart from those involving ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
Where the final tax estimates, that can affect the amounts recognised in the outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were consolidated financial statements.
Such judgements include: initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination Award of options and deferred shares to employees is made.
The Group applies judgement in deciding the proportion of the available bonus pool to be awarded to employees under its Deferred taxes long-term share-based incentive scheme.
The Groups current The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether policy is to deduct from the bonus pool an amount equal to the it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be market value of the share price on the date of award.
Under IFRS, available in the future, against which the reversal of temporary the value of award is spread over the vesting period and charged differences can be deducted.
Recognition, therefore, involves to the income statement.
The charge to the income statement is judgement regarding the future financial performance of the currently higher than the market value of shares to be awarded.
particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised, especially with regard to the extent that future taxable profits will be available against which losses can be utilised.
Additional information is disclosed in Note 17.
Fair value of options granted to employees The Group uses the Binomial Model in determining the fair value of options granted to employees under the Groups various schemes as detailed in the Remuneration report.
Information on such assumptions is contained in Note 26.
The alteration of these assumptions may impact charges to the income statement over the vesting period of the award.
76 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results 5.
Segment analysis Operating segments reflect internal management reporting to the Groups chief operating decision maker, defined as the Group Executive Board GEB.
The operating segments are determined based on differences in the nature of their services.
Geographical location also strongly affects the Group and both are therefore disclosed.
The reportable operating segments derive their revenue primarily from property related services.
Refer to the Group overview on page 2 and the Segmental reviews on pages 17 to 22 for further information on revenue sources.
Operations are based in four main geographical areas.
The UK is the home of the parent Company with segment operations throughout the region.
Asia Pacific segment operations are based in Hong Kong, Macau, China, Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Thailand, Singapore, Vietnam and Australia.
Continental Europe segment operations are based in Germany, France, Spain, Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden, Italy, Ireland and Poland.
America segment operations are based in New York.
The sales location of the client is not materially different from the location where fees are received and where the segment assets are located.
Within the UK, commercial and residential activities are managed separately.
Other geographical areas, although largely commercial based, also provide residential services, in particular Hong Kong, China, Vietnam, Singapore, Australia and Thailand.
The GEB assesses the performance of operating segments based on a measure of underlying profit before tax which adjusts reported pre-tax profit by profit on disposals, share-based payment adjustment, restructuring costs, amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets excluding software and impairment of available-for-sale investments, joint ventures or associated undertakings.
Segmental assets and liabilities are not measured or reported to the GEB, but non-current assets are disclosed geographically on page 78.
The segment information provided to the GEB for revenue and profits for the year ended 31 December 2012 is as follows: Property and Transaction Facilities Investment Advisory Consultancy Management Management Other Total 2012 m m m m m m Revenue United Kingdom commercial 60.4 104.2 65.2 23.5 0.1 253.4 residential 97.0 28.1 20.6 145.7 Total United Kingdom 157.4 132.3 85.8 23.5 0.1 399.1 Continental Europe 29.6 12.3 28.3 70.2 Asia Pacific commercial 98.4 27.6 186.5 312.5 residential 18.5 18.5 Total Asia Pacific 116.9 27.6 186.5 331.0 America 6.1 6.1 Total revenue 310.0 172.2 300.6 23.5 0.1 806.4 Underlying profit loss before tax United Kingdom commercial 7.0 8.7 5.8 3.6 8.6 16.5 residential 14.7 3.7 2.4 20.8 Total United Kingdom 21.7 12.4 8.2 3.6 8.6 37.3 Continental Europe 6.0 0.5 0.5 7.0 Asia Pacific commercial 14.6 2.9 10.5 28.0 residential 4.6 4.6 Total Asia Pacific 19.2 2.9 10.5 32.6 America 2.1 2.1 Underlying profit loss before tax 32.8 14.8 18.2 3.6 8.6 60.8 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 77 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued Property and Transaction Facilities Investment Advisory Consultancy Management Management Other Total 2011 m m m m m m Revenue United Kingdom commercial 47.9 79.5 60.3 20.8 0.6 209.1 residential 95.027.917.5 2.8143.2 Total United Kingdom 142.9 107.4 77.8 20.8 3.4 352.3 Continental Europe 26.0 11.1 28.4 65.5 Asia Pacific commercial 80.2 24.9 172.4 277.5 residential 19.9 19.9 Total Asia Pacific 100.1 24.9 172.4 297.4 America 6.3 6.3 Total revenue 275.3 143.4 278.6 20.8 3.4 721.5 Underlying profit loss before tax United Kingdom commercial 4.6 7.8 4.3 4.7 8.1 13.3 residential 14.83.12.2 0.320.4 Total United Kingdom 19.4 10.9 6.5 4.7 7.8 33.7 Continental Europe 8.8 0.1 0.7 9.6 Asia Pacific commercial 11.2 1.8 10.9 23.9 residential 3.8 3.8 Total Asia Pacific 15.0 1.8 10.9 27.7 America 1.4 1.4 Underlying profit loss before tax 24.2 12.6 16.7 4.7 7.8 50.4 For 2011, the Other segment includes Savills Private Finance Limited up to the date of disposal 2.9m revenue and 0.3m underlying profit, as well as costs and other expenses at holding company and subsidiary levels, which are not directly attributable to the operating activities of the Groups business segments.
A reconciliation of underlying profit before tax to profit before tax is provided in Note 7.
Inter segmental revenue is not material.
Transaction Advisory underlying profit before tax includes depreciation of 2.7m 2011: 2.7m, software amortisation of 0.3m 2011: 0.2m and share of post-tax profit from associates and joint ventures of 4.5m 2011: 2.3m.
Consultancy underlying profit before tax includes depreciation of 1.3m 2011: 1.3m and software amortisation of 0.1m 2011: 0.1m.
Property and Facilities Management underlying profit before tax includes depreciation of 2.3m 2011: 2.3m, software amortisation of 0.3m 2011: 0.3m and share of post-tax profit from associates and joint ventures of 2.6m 2011: 1.5m.
Investment management underlying profit before tax includes depreciation of 0.1m 2011: 0.1m and share of post-tax profit from associates and joint ventures of nil 2011: 0.3m.
Included in Other underlying profit is depreciation of 0.8m 2011: 0.7m, software amortisation of 0.6m 2011: 0.5m and share of post-tax profit from associates and joint ventures of nil 2011: 0.1m loss.
Non-current assets by geography are set out below: 2012 2011 m m Non-current assets United Kingdom 79.5 74.4 Continental Europe 43.5 44.7 Asia Pacific 64.1 65.6 America 16.2 17.4 Total non-current assets 203.3 202.1 Non-current assets include goodwill and intangible assets, plant, property and equipment, investments in joint ventures and associates, available-for-sale investments and non-current receivables.
Deferred tax assets are not included.
78 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results 6 a.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : Group 2012 2011 m m Amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include: Amortisation Note 14 3.7 3.7 Impairment of goodwill Note 14 5.4 3.7 9.1 Other operating expenses include: Net foreign exchange losses 0.1 0.2 Provision for receivables impairment 3.6 3.2 Restructuring costs 4.0 1.9 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.3 Operating lease rentals Hire of equipment and vehicles 2.2 2.3 Property 25.1 23.8 Impairment of available-for-sale investment and investment in associate Note 16 a & b 1.2 2.0 Other income dividend and investment income 0.5 0.5 Profit on disposals is made up as follows: Profit on disposals Available-for-sale investments 1.7 1.7 Joint venture 0.1 Subsidiaries 0.5 1.7 2.3 Restructuring costs include onerous lease and related property costs of 2.9m 2011: 0.9m, staff costs of 0.4m 2011: 0.9m and legal and other costs of 0.7m 2011: 0.1m 6 b.
Income Statement of the Company As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the income statement and statement of comprehensive income of the Company are not presented as part of these accounts.
The Company has produced its own income statement and statement of comprehensive income for approval by its board.
The Company receives dividends from subsidiaries and charges subsidiaries for the provision of Group related services.
The loss after income tax of the Company for the year was 0.7m 2011: 46.5m profit.
6 c. Fees payable to the Companys auditor,  LLP, and its associates Group 2012 2011 m m Audit services Fees payable to Companys auditors for the audit of parent Company 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.8 0.9 0.9 1.0 Other services Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Tax advisory services 0.2 0.1 Tax compliance services 0.3 0.2 Advisory services 0.1 0.1 1.6 1.5 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 79 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued 7.
Underlying profit before tax 2012 2011 m m Reported profit before tax 54.2 40.0 Adjustments: Amortisation of intangible assets excluding software Note 14 2.4 2.6 Impairment of goodwill Note 14 5.4 Impairment of investment in associate and available-for-sale investment Note 16 b 1.2 2.0 Share-based payment adjustment 0.7 0.8 Restructuring costs 4.0 1.9 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, joint venture and available-for-sale investment 1.7 2.3 Underlying profit before tax 60.8 50.4 The Directors regard the above adjustments necessary to give a fair picture of the underlying results of the Group for the year.
The adjustment for share-based payment relates to the impact of the accounting standard for share-based compensation.
The annual bonus is paid in a mixture of cash and deferred shares and the proportions can vary from one year to another.
Under IFRS the deferred share element is amortised to the income statement over the vesting period whilst the cash element is expensed in the year.
The adjustment above addresses this by adding to or deducting from profit the difference between the IFRS 2 charge and the effectivevalue of the annual share award in order better to match the underlying staff costs in the year with the revenue recognised in the same period.
Employee benefits expense Staff and Directors Group 2012 2011 m m Basic salaries and wages 309.5 288.0 Profit share and commissions 137.5 111.1 Wages and salaries 447.0 399.1 Social security costs 38.6 32.9 Other pension costs 17.1 15.5 Share-based payments 10.4 11.3 513.1 458.8 8 b.
Staff numbers The weighted average number of employees including Directors for the year was: Group 2012 2011 United Kingdom 3,503 3,334 Continental Europe 817 751 Asia Pacific 20,657 19,432 America 39 38 25,016 23,555 The average number of UK employees including Directors during the year included 128 employed under fixed term and temporary contracts 2011: 113.
8 c. Key management compensation Group 2012 2011 m m Key management Short term employee benefits 15.7 12.1 Post-employment benefits 0.5 1.1 Share-based payments 2.3 1.9 18.5 15.1 80 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results The key management of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012 comprised Executive Directors and the GEB members.
Details of Directors remuneration is contained in the Remuneration report on pages 55 to 57.
During the year seven 2011: six GEB members made aggregate gains totalling 1.2m 2011: 1.2m on the exercise of options under the DSBP, DSP, ESOP and Sharesave Schemes.
Retirement benefits under the defined benefit scheme are accruing for three 2011: three GEB members and benefits are accruing under a defined contribution scheme in Hong Kong for two 2011: two GEB members.
Pension scheme Defined contribution plans The Group operates the Savills UK Group Personal Pension Plan, a defined contribution scheme, a number of defined contribution individual pension plans and a Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme in Hong Kong, to which it contributes.
The total pension charges in respect of these plans were 17.9m 2011: 16.5m.
The amount outstanding as at 31 December 2012 in relation to defined contribution schemes is 1.4m 2011: 1.4m.
Defined benefit plan The Pension Plan of Savills the Plan provided final salary pension benefits to some employees, but was closed with regard to future service-based benefit accrual with effect from 31 March 2010.
From 1 April 2010, pension benefits for former employees of the Plan are provided through the Groups defined contribution Personal Pension Plan.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group, and invested in managed fund units.
The contributions are determined by an independent qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations.
A full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2010 and has been updated to 31 December 2012 by a qualified independent actuary.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuation are those relating to the rate of return on investments pre-retirement, the rates of increase in salaries and the post-retirement investment return.
The valuation showed that the market value of the schemes assets was 109.6m and that the actuarial value of those assets represented 80% of the benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
The scheme has been closed to new joiners for pension benefits since 1 April 2000.
Group Principal assumptions at 31 December 2012 2011 Expected return on plan assets Equities 7.70% 7.80% Gilts 2.30% 2.50% Bonds 4.40% 4.70% Property 6.80% Diversified growth funds 7.40% 7.50% Other 0.50% 0.50% Expected rate of salary increases 4.50% 4.50% Rate of increase to pensions in payment accrued before 6 April 1997 3.00% 3.00% accrued after 5 April 1997 3.00% 3.10% accrued after 5 April 2005 2.30% 2.30% Rate of increase to pensions in deferment accrued before 6 April 2001 5.00% 5.00% accrued after 5 April 2001 2.40% 2.80% accrued after 5 April 2009 2.40% 2.20% Discount rate 4.60% 4.90% Inflation assumption 3.00% 3.10% No property assets held in 2012.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 81 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued Using post-retirement mortality assumptions, the assured life expectations on retirement at age 60 2011: 60 are as follows: Group 2012 2011 Retiring today Male 88.1 88.1 Female 89.3 89.2 Retiring in 20 years Male 89.6 89.5 Female 90.9 90.8 Sensitivity analysis: Change in assumption on discount rate: Increase by 0.5% p. a.
Impact on liabilities Decrease by 10.6% 2011: decrease by 10.7% The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are as follows: Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Fair value of plan assets 151.7 129.0 8.4 7.1 Present value of funded obligations 179.6 164.6 9.9 9.1 Deficit 27.9 35.6 1.5 2.0 Related deferred tax asset 6.4 9.0 0.4 0.5 Net liability 21.5 26.6 1.1 1.5 The amounts recognised in the income statement: Group 2012 2011 m m Interest cost 8.0 7.7 Expected return on plan assets 8.8 8.7 Total included in staff costs 0.8 1.0 All net actuarial gains or losses for each year are recognised in full in the year in which they are incurred in the statement of comprehensive income.
Change in defined benefit obligation: Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation at start of year 164.6 141.8 9.1 7.8 Interest cost 8.0 7.7 0.4 0.4 Actuarial loss 9.3 16.1 0.5 0.9 Benefits paid 2.3 1.0 0.1 Present value of defined benefit obligation at end of year 179.6 164.6 9.9 9.1 82 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results Change in plan assets: Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Fair value of plan assets at start of year 129.0 119.5 7.1 6.6 Expected return on plan assets 8.8 8.7 0.5 0.4 Actuarial gain loss 9.2 4.2 0.5 0.2 Employer contributions 7.0 6.0 0.4 0.3 Benefits paid 2.3 1.0 0.1 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 151.7 129.0 8.4 7.1 The actual return on plan assets was 18.0m 2011: 4.5m.
The overall expected return on assets is determined as the weighted average of the expected returns on each separate asset class shown below.
The expected return on plan assets is determined by the expected rate of return over the remaining life of the related liabilities held by the scheme.
The expected rate of return on equities is based on market expectations of dividend yields and price earnings ratios.
Expected returns on bonds are based on gross redemption yields as at the reporting date.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Group 2012 2011 m m Actuarial losses brought forward 47.4 27.1 Net actuarial loss for the year 0.1 20.3 Accumulated net actuarial losses 47.5 47.4 The major categories of assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2012 2011 Equities 41% 48% Bonds 31% 31% Property 2% Diversified Growth Funds 28% 18% Cash 1% Total 100% 100% No plan assets are the Groups own financial instruments or property occupied or used by the Group.
Amounts for the current and previous four years are as follows: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m Plan assets 151.7 129.0 119.5 103.5 85.9 Defined benefit obligation 179.6 164.6 141.8 141.2 110.5 Deficit 27.9 35.6 22.3 37.7 24.6 Experience gain loss on plan liabilities 1% 1% 2% 2% 1% Experience gain loss on plan assets 6% 3% 3% 8% 35% The Group expects to contribute 9.0m to its pension plan in the period to 31 December 2013 2012: 7.0m.
The Company expects to contribute 0.5m 2012: 0.4m.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 83 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued 10.
Finance income and costs Group 2012 2011 m m Bank interest receivable 1.1 1.1 Fair value gain interest rate swaps 0.1 0.3 Finance income 1.2 1.4 Bank interest payable 0.9 1.3 Finance costs 0.9 1.3 Net finance income 0.3 0.1 11.
Income tax expense Group 2012 2011 Analysis of tax expense for the year m m Current tax United Kingdom: Corporation tax on profits for the year 12.2 10.6 Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.8 1.1 13.0 11.7 Foreign tax 6.8 6.5 Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.2 0.3 Total current tax 19.6 17.9 Deferred tax Representing: United Kingdom 4.5 1.9 Effect of change in UK tax rate on deferred tax 0.6 Foreign tax 1.2 1.9 Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.9 0.9 Total deferred tax Note 17 4.2 4.7 Income tax expense 15.4 13.2 The weighted average applicable UK corporation tax rate was 24.5% 2011: 26.5% due to the reduction of the UK corporation tax rate from 26% to 24% which was effective from 1 April 2012.
The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to Group profits.
The tax for the year is higher 2011: higher than the weighted average rate of 24.5%.
The total tax charge on profit can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: Group 2012 2011 m m Profit before tax 54.2 40.0 Tax on profit at 24.5% 2011: 26.5% 13.3 10.6 Effects of: Adjustment to tax in respect of prior years 1.5 0.1 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 1.7 2.3 Utilisation of previously unprovided tax losses 1.1 Impact of rising falling share price compared to the fair value of share awards options at date of grant 0.9 0.8 Income not subject to tax 0.1 0.7 Non-deductible tax losses 1.4 1.6 Expenses and other charges not deductible for tax purposes 3.8 3.0 Impairment of associate undertaking 0.5 Tax on joint ventures and associates 1.4 1.0 Effect of change in UK tax rate on deferred tax 0.6 0.8 Income tax expense on profit 15.4 13.2 84 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results The effective tax rate of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012 is 28.4% 2011: 33.0%.
The Finance Act 2012 substantively enacted on 17 July 2012 included legislation reducing the UK corporation tax rate from 26% to 24% with effect from 1 April 2012 and to 23% on 1 April 2013.
Deferred tax expected to reverse in the year ended 31 December 2013 has been remeasured using the effective rate that is expected to apply in the period 23.25% and at 23% for reversals expected after that date.
A further reduction to the UK tax rate has been announced.
The change, which is expected to be enacted next year, proposes to reduce the rate by a further 2% to 21% on 1 April 2014.
The change has not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, is not recognised in these financial statements.
The tax charged credited to other comprehensive income is as follows: Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Current tax credit on employee benefits 2.5 3.4 0.2 Current tax credit charge on foreign exchange reserves 0.2 0.2 Current tax credit on retirement benefits 1.7 1.6 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax credit charge on pension actuarial losses gains 5.4 0.1 0.2 Deferred tax on pension additional contributions 1.7 1.6 Deferred tax on pension effect of tax rate change 0.6 0.6 Deferred tax charge credit on employee benefits 0.5 3.3 0.2 0.1 Deferred tax charge credit on revaluations of available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax credit on foreign exchange reserves 0.1 Tax on items relating to components of other comprehensive income 1.4 5.0 0.2 0.4 12.
Dividends Group and Company 2012 2011 m m Amounts recognised as distribution to owners in the year: Ordinary final dividend for 2011 of 6.35p per share 2010: 6.0p 7.8 7.4 Supplemental interim dividend for 2011 of 4.0p per share 2010: 4.0p 5.0 5.0 Interim dividend of 3.3p per share 2011: 3.15p 4.1 3.9 16.9 16.3 The Board recommends a final dividend of 6.7p net per ordinary share amounting to 8.5m is paid, alongside the supplemental interim dividend of 6.0p per ordinary share amounting to 7.5m, to be paid on 13 May 2013 to shareholders on the register at 12 April 2013.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
Under the terms of the Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT, the Trustee has waived all but 0.01p of any dividend on each share held by the Trust.
Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share are based on the profit attributable to owners of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the shares held by the EBT, 7,183,049 shares 2011: 9,198,857 shares.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares, being the share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and where performance conditions have been met.
The earnings and the shares used in the calculations are as follows: 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 Earnings Shares EPS Earnings Shares EPS m million pence m million pence Basic earnings per share 38.5 124.8 30.8 26.5 123.3 21.5 Effect of additional shares issuable under option 5.7 1.3 3.4 0.6 Diluted earnings per share 38.5 130.5 29.5 26.5 126.7 20.9 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 85 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued 13 b.
Underlying basic and diluted earnings per share Excludes profit on disposals, share-based payment adjustment, impairment and amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets excluding software, impairment of available for sale investment and associate undertaking and restructuring costs.
2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 Earnings Shares EPS Earnings Shares EPS m million pence m million pence Basic earnings per share 38.5 124.8 30.8 26.5 123.3 21.5 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding software after tax 1.9 1.5 2.1 1.7 Impairment of goodwill after tax 5.4 4.4 Impairment of investment in associate and available-for-sale investment after tax 1.2 1.0 2.0 1.6 Share-based payment adjustment after tax 0.5 0.4 0.6 0.5 Restructuring costs after tax 3.2 2.6 1.4 1.2 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, joint venture and available-for-sale investment after tax 1.3 1.0 2.3 1.9 Underlying basic earnings per share 44.0 124.8 35.3 35.7 123.3 29.0 Effect of additional shares issuable under option 5.7 1.6 3.4 0.8 Underlying diluted earnings per share 44.0 130.5 33.7 35.7 126.7 28.2 The Directors regard the above adjustments necessary to give a fair picture of the underlying results of the Group for the year.
The adjustment above addresses this by adding to or deducting from profit the difference between the IFRS 2 charge and the effective value of the annual share award in order better to match the underlying staff costs in the year with the revenue recognised in the same period.
The gross amounts of the above adjustments Note 7 are amortisation of intangible assets excluding software 2.4m 2011: 2.6m, impairment of goodwill of nil 2011: 5.4m, impairment of investment in associate and available-for-sale investment of 1.2m 2011: 2.0m, share-based payment adjustment 0.7m 2011: 0.8m, restructuring costs of 4.0m 2011: 1.9m and profit on disposals of 1.7m 2011: 2.3m.
Goodwill and intangible assets Group Company Investment and Customer property business management Computer Goodwill relationships contracts software Total Total Acquired goodwill and intangible assets m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2012 179.5 21.2 10.8 12.2 223.7 3.8 Additions through business combinations Note 16 e 2.5 0.7 0.4 3.6 Initial recognition of deferred tax on intangible assets Note 17 0.2 0.2 Other additions 0.1 3.0 3.1 0.9 Disposals 0.4 0.4 Derecognition of fully amortised intangible assets 0.8 0.8 Exchange movement 2.9 0.6 0.5 0.2 3.2 At 31 December 2012 179.3 20.5 11.8 14.6 226.2 4.7 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2012 43.9 12.8 5.2 9.3 71.2 2.4 Amortisation charge for the year 2.0 0.4 1.3 3.7 0.5 Disposals 0.4 0.4 Derecognition of fully amortised intangible assets 0.8 0.8 Exchange movement 1.3 0.4 0.5 0.1 1.3 At 31 December 2012 42.6 13.6 6.1 10.1 72.4 2.9 Net book value At 31 December 2012 136.7 6.9 5.7 4.5 153.8 1.8 86 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results All intangible amortisation charges in the year are disclosed on the face of the income statement.
The Companys intangible assets consist of computer software only.
Group Company Investment and Customer property business management Computer Goodwill relationships Brands contracts software Total Total Acquired goodwill and intangible assets m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2011 178.1 22.3 6.1 10.6 11.5 228.6 3.4 Additions through business combinations 7.5 0.7 0.6 8.8 Disposals through business combinations 4.6 1.3 0.3 0.4 6.6 Initial recognition of deferred tax on intangible assets 0.2 0.2 Other additions 1.2 1.2 0.4 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Derecognition of fully amortised intangible assets 0.3 6.1 6.4 Exchange movement 1.7 0.2 0.1 2.0 At 31 December 2011 179.5 21.2 10.8 12.2 223.7 3.8 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2011 43.8 10.8 6.1 5.3 8.7 74.7 1.9 Amortisation charge for the year 2.4 0.2 1.1 3.7 0.5 Disposals through business combinations 4.6 0.3 0.4 5.3 Impairment 5.4 5.4 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Derecognition of fully amortised intangible assets 0.3 6.1 6.4 Exchange movement 0.7 0.1 0.8 At 31 December 2011 43.9 12.8 5.2 9.3 71.2 2.4 Net book value At 31 December 2011 135.6 8.4 5.6 2.9 152.5 1.4 At 1 January 2011 134.3 11.5 5.3 2.8 153.9 1.5 During the year, goodwill and intangible assets were tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
Goodwill and intangible assets are allocated to the Groups cash-generating units CGUs identified according to country of operation and business segment.
In most cases, the CGU is an individual subsidiary or operation and these have been separately assessed and tested.
A segment-level summary of the allocation is presented below: Property and Transactional Facilities Investment Advice Consultancy Management Management Total 2012 m m m m m United Kingdom 24.9 10.2 4.9 3.6 43.6 Continental Europe 24.9 1.1 10.5 36.5 Asia Pacific 11.2 3.0 29.7 43.9 America 14.7 14.7 Total goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets 75.7 14.3 45.1 3.6 138.7 Property and Transactional Facilities Investment Advice Consultancy Management Management Total 2011 m m m m m United Kingdom 23.8 10.2 4.9 2.2 41.1 Continental Europe 25.3 1.1 10.6 37.0 Asia Pacific 11.4 3.1 29.8 44.3 America 15.4 15.4 Total goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets 75.9 14.4 45.3 2.2 137.8 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 87 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued Method of impairment testing All recoverable amounts were determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use discounted cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a terminal value.
There was no impairment charge for goodwill and intangible assets arising from the the annual impairment tests conducted 2011: 5.4m.
Assumptions Market recovery In each case the models used assume that the property markets in which the Group operates which drive its revenue growth begin or continue to recover during 2013 2014.
Discount rate The discount rate applied to cash flows of each CGU is based on the Groups Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC.
WACC is the average cost of sources of financing debt and equity, each of which is weighted by its respective use.
Key inputs to the WACC calculation are the risk free rate, the equity market risk premium the return that Savills shares provide over the risk free rate, beta reflecting the risk of the Group relative to the market as a whole and the Groups borrowing rates.
Group WACC was adjusted for risk relative to the country in which the assets were located.
The risk adjusted pre-tax discount range of rates used in each region for impairment testing are as follows: 2012 2011 Pre-tax discount rate range Pre-tax discount rate range United Kingdom 10.9% 11.0% Continental Europe 10.9 11.9% 11.0 11.5% Asia Pacific 9.5 21.3% 6.3 21.3% America 12.9% 12.5% Long-term growth rate To forecast beyond the five years covered by detailed forecasts, a terminal value was calculated, using an average long-term growth rate determined at 1.5%.
This reflects managements expectations based on historical growth and current market conditions and does not exceed the long-term growth rate in any country in which the Group operates.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The level of impairment is a reflection of best estimates in arriving at value in use, future growth rates and the discount rate applied to cash flow projections.
Nonetheless, there are no CGUs which management considers a reasonable possible change in a key assumption would give rise to an impairment, apart from the Groups US business.
If revenue growth rate assumptions decreased by 2.7% per annum between 2014 and 2017, this would begin to give rise to an impairment charge in the US.
Future impairments on goodwill and intangible assets relating to any of the Groups investments may be impacted by the following factors: Market conditions the timing and growth expectations for further recovery are key assumptions in the determination of the cash flow projections.
For the purposes of the impairment tests, management expects the market to improve slightly over 2013 for the next year, but anticipate a bigger improvement from 2014 onward.
Cost base the cost base assumptions reflects 2012s costs with limited growth in the fixed cost base going forward.
Commissions and profit shares are correlated to the Groups revenue and profits and the percentage payout.
These are assumed to be consistent with existingrates.
88 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results 15.
Property, plant and equipment Equipment Equipment Short and motor and motor Freehold leasehold vehicles vehicles property property Owned Leased Total Group m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2012 0.1 18.4 53.7 0.1 72.3 Additions 3.2 4.5 7.7 Disposals 0.9 6.7 7.6 Exchange movement 0.1 0.7 0.8 At 31 December 2012 0.1 20.6 50.8 0.1 71.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2012 11.9 41.9 0.1 53.9 Charge for the year 1.8 5.4 7.2 Disposals 0.8 6.5 7.3 Exchange movement 0.7 0.7 At 31 December 2012 12.9 40.1 0.1 53.1 Net book value At 31 December 2012 0.1 7.7 10.7 18.5 The Directors consider that the fair value of plant, property and equipment approximates carrying value.
Equipment Equipment Short and motor and motor Freehold leasehold vehicles vehicles property property Owned Leased Total Group m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2011 0.1 20.6 51.1 0.3 72.1 Subsidiaries acquired 0.2 0.2 Subsidiaries disposed 1.0 1.6 2.6 Additions 2.2 7.0 9.2 Reclassifications 0.2 0.2 Disposals 3.4 3.3 6.7 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2011 0.1 18.4 53.7 0.1 72.3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2011 13.7 40.6 0.1 54.4 Charge for the year 1.9 5.2 7.1 Subsidiaries disposed 0.4 1.4 1.8 Disposals 3.3 2.5 5.8 At 31 December 2011 11.9 41.9 0.1 53.9 Net book value At 31 December 2011 0.1 6.5 11.8 18.4 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 89 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued Short Equipment Freehold leasehold and motor property property vehicles Total Company m m m m Cost At 1 January 2012 0.1 0.8 9.5 10.4 Additions 1.2 0.5 1.7 Disposals 0.6 4.7 5.3 At 31 December 2012 0.1 1.4 5.3 6.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2012 0.8 8.2 9.0 Charge for the year 0.8 0.8 Disposals 0.6 4.7 5.3 At 31 December 2012 0.2 4.3 4.5 Net book value At 31 December 2012 0.1 1.2 1.0 2.3 Short Equipment Freehold leasehold and motor property property vehicles Total Company m m m m Cost At 1 January 2011 0.1 0.8 8.8 9.7 Additions 0.8 0.8 Disposals 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2011 0.1 0.8 9.5 10.4 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2011 0.8 7.6 8.4 Charge for the year 0.7 0.7 Disposals 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2011 0.8 8.2 9.0 Net book value At 31 December 2011 0.1 1.3 1.4 90 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results 16 a.
Group Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings Joint ventures Associated undertakings Investment Loans Total Investment Goodwill Total m m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2012 2.2 3.3 5.5 2.1 2.1 Additions 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.2 0.3 Loans repaid 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 Disposals 0.1 0.4 0.5 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2012 2.4 2.5 4.9 1.9 0.2 2.1 Share of profit At 1 January 2012 3.4 3.4 2.8 2.8 Groups share of retained profit 2.5 2.5 4.6 4.6 Dividends received 0.9 0.9 5.1 5.1 Disposals 0.4 0.4 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2012 5.3 5.3 2.4 2.4 Total At 31 December 2012 7.7 2.5 10.2 4.3 0.2 4.5 Joint ventures Associated undertakings Investment Loans Total Investment Goodwill Total m m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2011 1.4 1.9 3.3 3.8 0.2 4.0 Additions 0.8 0.8 Loans advanced 2.1 2.1 0.2 0.2 Loans repaid 0.7 0.7 Impairment 1.8 0.2 2.0 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2011 2.2 3.3 5.5 2.1 2.1 Share of profit At 1 January 2011 2.5 2.5 1.8 1.8 Groups share of retained profit 1.5 1.5 2.5 2.5 Dividends received 0.4 0.4 1.5 1.5 Disposals 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2011 3.4 3.4 2.8 2.8 Total At 31 December 2011 5.6 3.3 8.9 4.9 4.9 In relation to the Groups interests in joint ventures, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are shown below: 2012 2011 m m Current assets 13.1 10.3 Non-current assets 6.4 5.3 Current liabilities 9.8 8.0 Non-current liabilities 2.0 2.0 Net assets 7.7 5.6 Revenue 21.7 16.6 Expenses 18.8 14.8 Share of income tax 0.4 0.3 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 2.5 1.5 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 91 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued In relation to the Groups associated undertakings, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are shown below: 2012 2011 m m Current assets 9.4 9.6 Non-current assets 1.2 1.6 Current liabilities 6.3 6.3 Net assets 4.3 4.9 Revenue 54.0 34.1 Expenses 48.4 31.0 Share of income tax 1.0 0.6 Share of post-tax profit from associates 4.6 2.5 The joint ventures and associates have no significant liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities or capital commitments in relation to its interests in the joint ventures and associates.
The Group disposed of certain holdings in joint ventures during the year.
Net assets of 0.1m were disposed and no gains or losses were recognised through the income statement.
16 b. Available-for-sale investments Group Group 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 14.4 14.2 Additions 1.0 1.2 Transfer from investment in subsidiary 0.3 Net fair value gain loss transferred to other comprehensive income 0.2 0.9 Impairment through the income statement 0.3 Exchange movement 0.3 0.4 At 31 December 15.0 14.4 Available-for-sale investments comprise the following: Unlisted securities UK equity securities 0.9 0.8 UK limited partnership 0.6 0.1 UK investment funds 2.7 2.5 European limited partnerships 0.1 European investment funds 10.3 10.6 Asia Pacific equity securities 0.4 0.4 15.0 14.4 Available-for-sale investments are denominated in the following currencies: Group Group 2012 2011 m m Sterling 4.2 3.4 Euro 10.4 10.6 Other 0.4 0.4 15.0 14.4 92 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results At 31 December 2012, the Group held the following principal available-for-sale investments: Investment Holding Principal activity General insurance, mortgage broking and SPF Private Clients Limited registered in England and Wales 19.99% personal financial planning services Pinnacle Regeneration Group Limited registered in England and Wales 3.03% Social housing services Cordea Savills Dawn Syndication LP registered in England and Wales 3.50% Investment property fund Cordea Savills Student Hall Fund registered in Jersey 2.03% Student accommodation property fund Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 1 registered in Luxembourg 2.81% Investment property fund Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 2 registered in Luxembourg 1.34% Investment property fund Serviced Land No.
2 LP registered in England and Wales 1.97% UK land investment fund Cordea Savills German Retail Fund registered in Luxembourg 1.94% Retail investment property fund Cordea Savills Nordic Retail Fund registered in Luxembourg 11.33% Retail investment property fund Cordea Savills UK Property Ventures No.
1 LP registered in England and Wales 4.15% UK land investment fund Prime London Residential Development Fund registered in England and Wales 3.19% London Residential Development Fund This holding relates to Class C ordinary shares.
The Group also holds 100% of Class A1 preference shares and 4.0% of Class B preference shares in this fund.
The Group transferred losses of 0.9m 2011: nil from equity into the income statement relating to impairments of available-for-sale investments.
An additional 0.3m impairment charge was recognised directly in the income statement.
In October 2012 Savills 4.3% shareholding in IPD Group Ltd was sold resulting in a 1.7m profit on disposal.
The Group does not exert significant influence over these businesses, and therefore does not equity account for these investments.
These shareholdings are treated as trade investments and held at fair value.
The fair value of unlisted securities is based on underlying asset values and price earnings models.
The fair value of investment funds is determined by the Fund Managers annual audited financial statements.
At 31 December 2012 the Group held conditional commitments to co-invest 0.5m 2011: 0.6m in the Cordea Savills UK Property Ventures Fund No.
1 LP, 0.1m 2011: 0.1m in the Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 2, 0.2m 2011: 0.3m in the Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 1 and 0.5m in the Prime London Residential Development Fund 2011: nil.
The Company made no available-for-sale investments during the year 2011: nil.
16 c. Company Investments in subsidiaries Shares Loans to in Group Group undertakings undertakings Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2011 22.4 104.2 126.6 Loans advanced 21.6 21.6 Loans repaid 25.1 25.1 Transfer from current receivables 2.9 2.9 At 31 December 2011 22.4 103.6 126.0 Loans repaid 21.6 21.6 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Exchange movement 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2012 22.3 81.6 103.9 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 93 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued 16 d. Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings The principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings of the Group which, in the Directors opinion principally affect the figures shown in the financial statements, are shown below together with details of their main activities.
Except where otherwise noted, they are wholly-owned, have share capital wholly comprised of ordinary shares, are registered in England and Wales, operate in the UK and are consolidated into the Group financial statements.
Holding interests are the same as voting interests.
A full list of the Groups subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings is available from the registered office of Savills plc.
Subsidiary undertakings Holding Main activities Cordea Savills LLP 100% Investment management Savills Commercial Limited 100% Commercial surveyors Savills L&P Limited 100% General practice surveyors Prime Purchase Limited 100% Property buying company Cordea Savills Investment Management Limited 100% Asset manager Savills LLC registered in the US 100% Property consultants Savills Commercial Ireland Limited registered in Ireland 100% Property consultants Savills Consultores Inmobiliarios SA registered in Spain 100% Property consultants Savills Immobilien Beratungs GmbH registered in Germany 100% Property consultants Savills SA registered in France 99.97% Property consultants Savills Italy SRL registered in Italy 100% Property consultants Savills Nederland Holding BV registered in the Netherlands 87% Property consultants Savills Sweden AB registered in Sweden 98.40% Property consultants  Stadsmuren registered in Sweden 100% Project management Loudden Bygg-och Fastighetsservice AB registered in Sweden 70% Facilities management Savills Spolka z Organiczona registered in Poland 100% Property consultants Savills Belux Group SA 70% Property consultants Savills Hong Kong Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Mixed practice agency, valuation and research Savills Valuation and Professional Services Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Valuation and research Savills Property Management Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Property management Guardian Property Management Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Property management Savills Singapore Pte Limited registered in Singapore 100% Property management and agency Savills Japan KK registered in Japan 100% Property management and agency Savills Property Services Shanghai Co Limited registered in China 100% Property management Savills Property Services Beijing Co Limited registered in China 100% Property management Savills Korea Asset Management Limited registered in Korea 100% Property management Savills Korea Co. Limited registered in Korea 100% Property agency and consultants Savills Vietnam Limited registered in BVI 92.10% Property management and agency Savills Thailand Limited registered in Thailand 100% Property agency, consultants and management Savills Taiwan Limited registered in Taiwan 100% Property agency and consultants Savills Aust Pty Limited registered in Australia 96.19% Property agency, consultants and management Joint ventures GES Holdings Limited Macau 50% Property management Associated undertakings Hutton Asia Pte Ltd Singapore 48% Property agency Shares interests held indirectly by the Company.
94 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results 16 e. Acquisitions of subsidiaries Gresham Down Capital Partners LLP On 5 January 2012 the Group acquired the specialist Central London investment and asset management business Gresham Down Capital Partners LLP.
The business provides investment advisory and brokerage advice focusing primarily on the Central London Commercial property market, as well as asset management services, and will strengthen the Groups existing Central London presence.
Consideration of 1.6m was paid on completion, with a further total of 1.4m payable across the subsequent four anniversaries subject to service conditions.
Goodwill and other intangible assets of 0.9m and 0.7m have been determined.
Goodwill represents synergies that the Group expects to gain as a result of the acquisition.
IFRS 3 revised has been applied to this acquisition which was accounted for using the acquisition method.
Acquisition related costs for this transaction were negligible.
International Property Asset Management GmbH On 20 January 2012 Cordea Savills acquired International Property Asset Management GmbH IPAM, a German real estate asset management company.
The acquisition complements and expands the Groups existing German business and investment platform.
Total consideration was 3.1m, of which 2.3m was paid on completion.
Contingent consideration is payable in 2013 and 2014 based on the actual performance of the business.
Goodwill on acquisition of 1.6m has been determined, and is attributable to key staff and their industry reputation.
Other intangible assets of 0.4m have been identified and relate to asset management contracts.
Acquisition related costs of 0.3m are included in the income statement.
Fair value to the Group Subsidiaries acquired m Current assets: Trade and other receivables 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents 1.4 Total assets 1.6 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 0.5 Current income tax liabilities 0.1 Net assets 1.0 Other intangible assets Note 14 1.1 Fair value of net assets acquired 2.1 Goodwill Note 14 2.5 Purchase consideration 4.6 Consideration satisfied by: Net cash paid as per cash flow statement 2.5 Cash acquired 1.4 Deferred consideration owing at reporting date 0.7 4.6 For these acquisitions, there was no difference between the fair value and carrying value of net assets acquired, except for intangible assets.
The Group acquires businesses intended for use on a continuing basis.
There were no significant changes to the provisional goodwill that arose in the previous year on acquisitions.
Included in Group operating profit relating to acquisitions is: m Turnover 5.4 Staff costs 2.8 Depreciation 0.1 Other operating charges 0.8 Operating profit before finance charges 1.7 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 95 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued If the date for all acquisitions made during the year had been 1 January 2012, the amounts included in Group operating profit would have been: m Turnover 5.4 Staff costs 2.8 Depreciation 0.1 Other operating charges 0.8 Operating profit before finance charges 1.7 16 f. Transactions with non-controlling interests During the year, the Group undertook the following transactions with non-controlling interests: Holding Total holding at Name Date acquired 31 December 2012 Savills Vietnam Limited October 2012 20.0% 92.1% Savills LLC December 2012 25.0% 100.0% Under IAS 27 revised, transactions with non-controlling interests must be accounted for as equity transactions, therefore no goodwill has been recognised.
Acquisition costs related to these transactions were not significant.
In October 2012, the Group acquired an additional 20.0% of the shares in Savills Vietnam Limited for cash consideration of 3.5m.
This takes the Groups shareholding to 92.1%.
The carrying amount of Savills Vietnam Limiteds net assets on the date of acquisition was 0.3m.
The Group recognised a decrease in non-controlling interest of 0.1m.
The amount charged to retained earnings in respect of this transaction was 3.4m.
In December 2012, the Group acquired the remaining 25.0% of the shares in Savills LLC, which operates in the United States of America.
Cash consideration of 8.3m was paid.
The carrying amount of Savills LLCs net liabilities on the dates of acquisition was 8.7m.
The Group recognised an increase in non-controlling interests of 2.3m.
A corresponding decrease in retained earnings was recognised in respect of this transaction.
An amount of 1.5m was credited to retained earnings reflecting a reduction in deferred consideration payable to non-controlling interests.
In 2011 the Group acquired additional stakes in Savills Italy SRL and Savills Vietnam Limited for a total consideration of 1.2m.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there are legally enforceable rights to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax relates to the same fiscal authority.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when realised through current tax.
The deferred income tax assets and liabilities at 31 December, without taking into consideration the offsetting balances within the same jurisdiction, are as follows: The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Deferred tax assets Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months 21.4 25.8 1.8 1.3 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months 8.5 3.6 0.7 0.6 29.9 29.4 2.5 1.9 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 1.2 1.7 Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 0.5 0.4 1.7 2.1 Deferred tax asset net 28.2 27.3 2.5 1.9 96 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m At 1 January asset 27.3 22.7 1.9 1.6 Amount credited to income statement Note 11 4.8 5.5 0.6 0.2 Effect of UK tax rate change within income statement Note 11 0.6 0.8 0.1 Tax charged to other comprehensive income Pension asset on actuarial loss gain 5.4 0.1 0.2 Pension asset on additional contributions 1.7 1.6 Pension asset effect of UK tax rate change within other comprehensive income 0.6 0.6 Employee benefits 0.5 3.3 0.2 0.1 Revaluations of available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.2 Movement on foreign exchange reserves 0.1 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 Initial recognition of intangible assets 0.2 0.2 At 31 December asset 28.2 27.3 2.5 1.9 Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
As at the reporting date the Group did not recognise deferred tax income tax assets of 8.5m 2011: 8.1m in respect of losses amounting to 24.9m 2011: 24.8m that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
Losses amounting to 0.7m 2011: 1.2m expire within 2 years, losses amounting to 1.1m 2011: 1.5m expire between 3 and 8 years and the remaining loss of 23.1m 2011: 22.1m remains available for offset indefinitely.
Accelerated Other capital including Retirement Employee allowances provisions Tax losses benefits Revaluation benefits Total Deferred tax assets Group m m m m m m m At 1 January 2011 1.0 6.4 4.0 6.1 8.0 25.5 Amount credited charged to income statement 1.4 1.8 0.3 1.9 4.8 Effect of UK tax rate change within income statement 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.7 Tax charged to other comprehensive income 3.8 3.3 0.5 Effect of UK tax rate change within other comprehensive income 0.6 0.6 Transfer to from deferred tax liabilities 0.3 0.3 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2011 0.9 7.1 5.7 9.0 0.3 6.4 29.4 Amount credited charged to income statement Note 11 0.1 1.1 1.4 0.3 2.1 4.4 Effect of UK tax rate change within income statement Note 11 0.3 0.4 0.7 Tax charged to other comprehensive income Note 11 1.7 0.3 0.5 2.5 Effect of UK tax rate change within other comprehensive income Note 11 0.6 0.6 Exchange movement 0.1 0.2 0.1 At 31 December 2012 1.0 8.0 6.9 6.4 7.6 29.9 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 97 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued Other including provisions and foreign Intangible exchange reserves Revaluations assets Total Deferred tax liabilities Group m m m m At 1 January 2011 0.6 0.1 2.1 2.8 Amount credited to income statement 0.7 0.7 Effect of UK tax rate change within income statement 0.1 0.1 Tax credited to other comprehensive income 0.1 0.2 0.3 Transfer from to deferred tax assets 0.3 0.3 Initial recognition of intangible assets 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2011 0.2 0.2 1.7 2.1 Amount credited to income statement Note 11 0.1 0.5 0.4 Effect of UK tax rate change within income statement Note 11 0.1 0.1 Effect of UK tax rate change within other comprehensive income Note 11 0.1 0.1 Initial recognition of intangible assets Note 14 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2012 0.3 0.1 1.3 1.7 Net deferred tax asset At 31 December 2012 28.2 At 31 December 2011 27.3 The proposed reduction in the main UK rate of corporation tax by 2% to 21% on 1 April 2014 is expected to be enacted separately next year.
The overall effect of this 2% reduction if this applied to the deferred tax balance at 31 December 2012, would be to reduce the net deferred tax asset by approximately 0.9m.
Please refer to note 11 for details of proposed tax rate reductions.
Accelerated Other capital including Retirement Employee allowances provisions benefits benefits Total Deferred tax assets Company m m m m m At 1 January 2011 0.3 0.6 0.3 0.4 1.6 Amount charged credited to income statement 0.2 0.2 Tax charged to other comprehensive income Note 11 0.2 0.1 0.1 As at 31 December 2011 0.3 0.6 0.5 0.5 1.9 Amount credited to income statement 0.6 0.6 Effect of UK tax rate change within income statement 0.1 0.1 Tax charged credited to other comprehensive income Note 11 0.1 0.2 0.1 At 31 December 2012 0.3 0.5 0.4 1.3 2.5 Net deferred tax asset At 31 December 2012 2.5 At 31 December 2011 1.9 98 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results 18.
Trade and other receivables Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Trade receivables 182.5 151.1 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 8.4 7.9 Trade receivables net 174.1 143.2 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 13.8 15.0 Other receivables 17.4 19.4 0.6 1.0 Prepayments and accrued income 29.3 28.6 0.8 0.7 220.8 191.2 15.2 16.7 The carrying value of trade and other receivables is approximate to their fair value.
There is no other concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables as the Group has a large number of clients internationally dispersed with no individual client owing a significant amount.
Inter-company trade receivables are generally cleared within the month.
As at 31 December 2012, trade receivables of 8.4m 2011: 7.9m were impaired and provided for.
The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to receivables from clients that have been affected by the uncertain economic conditions where funding and completion have been delayed and cash flow has become uncertain.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: Group 2012 2011 m m Up to 3 months 0.9 1.1 3 to 6 months 1.5 1.5 Over 6 months 6.0 5.3 8.4 7.9 As at 31 December 2012, trade receivables of 48.6m 2011: 43.2m were past due but not impaired.
These relate to trade receivables which are past due at the reporting date but are not considered impaired as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: Group 2012 2011 m m Up to 3 months 35.8 31.9 3 to 6 months 8.4 6.6 Over 6 months 4.4 4.7 48.6 43.2 The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: Group 2012 2011 m m Sterling 107.1 93.1 Euro 25.3 21.2 Hong Kong dollar 39.1 32.2 Australian dollar 14.9 15.7 Other 34.4 29.0 220.8 191.2 Other currencies include US dollar, Chinese renminbi, Singapore dollar, Polish zloty and Swedish krona.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 99 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued Movement on the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: Group 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 7.9 9.1 Provisions for receivables impairment 3.6 3.2 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 1.9 2.7 Unused provisions released 1.1 1.5 Subsidiary disposed 0.2 Exchange movements 0.1 At 31 December 8.4 7.9 The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in other operating expenses in the income statement.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 85.8 69.3 21.2 15.8 Short-term bank deposits 7.0 10.7 92.8 80.0 21.2 15.8 The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their fair value.
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits as at 31 December 2012 was 1.81% 2011: 1.19% : these deposits have an average maturity of 55 days 2011: 51 days.
Cash subject to restrictions in Asia Pacific amounts to 15.9m 2011: 16.3m which is cash pledged to banks in relation to property management contracts and cash remittance restrictions in certain countries.
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement: Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 92.8 80.0 21.2 15.8 Bank overdrafts Note 22 0.1 1.2 92.7 78.8 21.2 15.8 Cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies: Sterling 15.7 18.8 21.2 15.8 Euro 3.5 4.4 Hong Kong dollar 36.8 23.6 Singapore dollar 6.6 3.8 Australian dollar 4.4 5.9 Chinese renminbi 14.8 14.4 South Korean wan 2.3 1.5 Japanese yen 2.7 1.1 US dollar 1.2 2.3 Other currencies 4.8 4.2 92.8 80.0 21.2 15.8 Other currencies include New Taiwan dollar, Macau pataca, Thai baht, Vietnamese dong, Polish zloty and Swedish krona.
100 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results 20.
Trade and other payables current Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Deferred consideration 0.6 8.6 Trade payables 43.0 32.2 2.4 2.0 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 0.8 1.1 Other taxation and social security 30.5 27.6 5.9 3.1 Other payables 9.0 10.3 Accruals and deferred income 153.7 130.0 7.2 5.6 236.8 208.7 16.3 11.8 Includes accruals for profit shares.
The carrying value of trade and other payables is approximate to their fair value.
Trade and other payables non-current Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Deferred consideration 0.4 8.8 Other payables 0.2 0.2 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 6.1 5.1 0.6 9.0 6.1 5.1 22.
Borrowings Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Current Bank overdrafts 0.1 1.2 Unsecured bank loans due within one year or on demand 1.0 5.0 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 1.2 6.3 Non-current Finance leases 0.1 0.1 In October 2012 Savills Aust Pty Ltd borrowed 1.4m as a working capital loan.
The borrowings are denominated in Australian dollars and have an effective rate of 6.28%.
The loan is repaid in equal monthly instalments until July 2013.
At 31 December, at the year end exchange rate, 1.0m was outstanding 2011: 1.1m and is due within one year.
A similar loan entered into in October 2011 was fully repaid during the year.
The exposure of the Groups borrowings to interest rate changes and the contractual repricing dates at the reporting date are: Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Less than 1 year 1.2 6.3 Between 1 and 2 years 0.1 Between 2 and 5 years 1.2 6.4 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 101 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Between 1 and 2 years 0.1 Between 2 and 5 years 0.1 The effective interest rates at the reporting date were as follows: Group 2012 2011 m m Bank overdraft 6.75% 3.76% Bank loans 6.28% 5.77% Finance leases 9.72% 9.69% The carrying amounts of borrowings are approximate to their fair value.
The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m US dollar 3.9 Euro 1.2 Australian dollar 1.1 1.2 Thai baht 0.1 0.1 1.2 6.4 The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities: Floating rate expiring within 1 year or on demand 21.3 13.5 Floating rate expiring between 1 and 5 years 65.0 50.0 During the year the Groups revolving credit facility, which expires on 31 March 2014, was increased by 15m to 65m.
As at 31 December 2012 this facility was undrawn.
After the year end, the Group entered into a 12m amortising term loan, which expires on 1 May 2015, to finance the fit out costs for the Groups new head office.
Derivative financial instruments Group Company Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 2012 m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts at fair value 0.1 Group Company Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 2011 m m m m Interest rate swaps at fair value 0.1 Forward foreign exchange contracts at fair value 0.1 Total 0.1 0.1 Forward foreign exchange contracts The gross notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2012 were 7.8m 2011: 13.4m.
All contracts mature within one year and are classed as current.
Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts are recognised in net foreign exchange gains and losses in the income statement.
102 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results 24 a.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Professional indemnity Dilapidation Onerous Restructuring Group claims provisions leases provision Total Company m m m m m m At 1 January 2012 15.7 2.4 1.7 0.8 20.6 1.3 Provided during the year 9.4 0.4 2.5 0.2 12.5 Utilised during the year 3.8 0.6 0.6 5.0 Released during the year 2.3 0.2 2.5 Total 19.0 2.8 3.4 0.4 25.6 1.3 Less non-current portion 13.7 1.7 2.3 17.7 1.2 Current portion 5.3 1.1 1.1 0.4 7.9 0.1 Professional Dilapidation Onerous Restructuring Group indemnity provisions leases provision Total Company 2011 claims m m m m m m Current 9.3 0.2 0.8 0.8 11.1 0.1 Non-current 6.4 2.2 0.9 9.5 1.2 Total 15.7 2.4 1.7 0.8 20.6 1.3 Professional indemnity claims These arise from various legal actions, proceedings and other claims that are pending against the Group.
The outcomes of these claims are not predictable with any assurance and the amounts are based on reasonable estimates, taking into account the opinions of legal counsel.
The non-current portion of these provisions is expected to be utilised within the next two to five years.
Included are provisions for claims relating to subsidiaries prior to their disposal.
Dilapidation provisions The Group is required to perform dilapidation repairs on leased properties prior to the properties being vacated at the end of their lease term.
These amounts are based on estimates of repair costs at a future date and are subject to price fluctuations in these costs and the extent of repairs to be completed.
The majority of the non-current portion of these provisions is expected to be utilised within the next two to six years.
Onerous leases A provision is recognised where the costs of meeting the obligations under a lease contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received and is measured as the net least cost of exiting the contract, being the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and any compensation or penalties arising from the failure to fulfil it.
The majority of the non-current portion of these provisions is expected to be utilised within the next two to four years.
Restructuring provision This provision comprises termination payments to employees affected by restructuring and lease termination penalties.
Employee benefit obligations In addition to the defined benefit obligation pension scheme disclosed in Note 9, the following are included in employee benefit obligations: Total Group m At 1 January 2012 14.2 Provided during the year 6.5 Utilised during the year 6.7 Exchange movements 0.4 At 31 December 2012 13.6 The above provisions relate to holiday pay and long service leave in Asia Pacific and Europe and are expected to crystallise within five to seven years of the reporting date.
Profit shares are included within accruals Note 20.
The Company had no employee benefit obligations at 31 December 2012 or 31 December 2011.
The above employee benefit obligations have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 103 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued Group 2012 2011 m m Current 5.9 6.7 Non-current 7.7 7.5 13.6 14.2 25.
Share capital Group and Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 Authorised and allotted Number of shares Number of shares m m Ordinary shares of 2.5p each: Authorised 202,000,000 202,000,000 5.1 5.1 Allotted, called up and fully paid 133,342,240 132,589,303 3.3 3.3 Movement in allotted, called up and fully paid share capital 2012 2011 Number of shares m Number of shares m At 1 January 132,589,303 3.3 132,152,375 3.3 Allotted to direct participants on exercise of options under the Sharesave Scheme 680,210 357,928 Allotted to direct participants on exercise of options under the Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 72,727 79,000 At 31 December 133,342,240 3.3 132,589,303 3.3 At the Annual General Meeting held on 9 May 2012, the shareholders gave the Company authority, subject to stated conditions, to purchase for cancellation up to 13,259,678 of its own ordinary shares AGM held on 4 May 2011: 13,233,349.
Such authority remains valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or 1 July 2013 whichever is the earlier.
Share-based payment Details of the terms of the following schemes are contained in the Remuneration report on pages 48 and 49.
Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 The following share options have been granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 and were outstanding at 31December 2012: 2012 2011 Number of Number of shares shares Date of grant Exercise period Exercise price 000 000 14 March 2005 7 years from 14 March 2008 Approved 321.3p 28 28 14 March 2005 7 years from 14 March 2008 Unapproved 321.3p 67 67 17 April 2009 7 years from 17 April 2012 Approved 288.8p 21 21 17 April 2009 7 years from 17 April 2012 Unapproved 288.8p 457 530 19 April 2010 7 years from 19 April 2013 Unapproved 341.0p 422 422 995 1,068 A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2012 is shown below: 2012 2011 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average shares exercise shares exercise 000 price 000 price Outstanding at 1 January 1,068 312.3p 1,307 307.7p Exercised 73 288.8p 79 261.0p Lapsed 160 300.1p Outstanding at 31 December 995 314.0p 1,068 312.3p Exercisable at 31 December 573 294.1p 95 321.3p 104 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results The weighted average share price on the date of exercise during the year was 461.0p 2011: 404.1p and total consideration of 0.2m 2011: 0.2m was received.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 31 December 2012 is 6.3 years 2011: 7.3 years.
26 b. Sharesave Scheme During the year 680,210 shares 2011: 357,928 shares were allotted directly to participants on the exercise of options under the Sharesave Scheme, for consideration of 1,816,161 2011: 1,120,417.
The following table shows the options remaining outstanding as at 31 December 2012: 2012 2011 Number Number of shares of shares Date of grant Exercise price Exercise period 000 000 29 October 2009 267.0p 01.12.12 01.06.13 245 976 245 976 A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2012 is shown below: 2012 2011 Weighted Weighted Number average Number average of shares exercise of shares exercise 000 price 000 price Outstanding at 1 January 976 267.0p 1,563 282.2p Lapsed 51 267.0p 229 299.1p Exercised 680 267.0p 358 313.0p Outstanding at 31 December 245 267.0p 976 267.0p Exercisable at 31 December 245 267.0p The weighted average share price on the date of exercise during the year was 445.5p 2011: 376.9p and the weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 31 December 2012 is 0.4 years 2011: 1.4 years.
26 c. Deferred Share Bonus Plan The following awards of deferred shares, without exercise price, have been granted under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan the DSBP and were outstanding at 31 December 2012: 2012 2011 Number of Number of shares shares Date of award Deferred period Vesting date 000 000 19 March 2007 5 years 19 March 2012 534 17 March 2008 5 years 17 March 2013 1,128 1,192 17 April 2009 3 years 17 April 2012 815 17 April 2009 5 years 17 April 2014 505 521 13 April 2010 3 years 13 April 2013 446 492 13 April 2010 5 years 13 April 2015 49 54 30 March 2011 3 years 30 March 2014 719 739 30 March 2011 5 years 30 March 2016 599 621 19 April 2012 3 years 19 April 2015 422 19 April 2012 5 years 19 April 2017 345 4,213 4,968 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 105 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued As at 31 December 2012, 327 2011: 346 individuals held outstanding awards under the DSBP.
Awards made under the DSBP from 2006 onwards are subject to rolled-up dividends whereby the number of shares awarded will be increased on the vesting date to reflect dividends paid to shareholders throughout the deferred period.
A reconciliation of award movements over the year to 31 December 2012 is shown below: 2012 2011 Weighted Weighted average average Number of share price Number of share price shares at date shares at date 000 of exercise 000 of exercise Outstanding at 1 January 4,968 5,873 Granted 773 1,378 Forfeited 133 149 Exercised 1,395 360.7p 2,134 374.3p Outstanding at 31 December 4,213 4,968 Exercisable at 31 December The weighted average exercise price for awards granted under this scheme is nil 2011: nil.
No awards were exercisable under this scheme as at 31 December 2012 31 December 2011: nil.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 31 December 2012 is 2.3 years 2011: 1.6 years.
26 d. Deferred Share Plan The following awards of deferred shares, without exercise price, have been granted under the Deferred Share Plan the DSP and remained outstanding at 31 December 2012: 2012 2011 Number of Number of shares shares Date of grant Deferred period Vesting date 000 000 19 March 2007 5 years 19 March 2012 29 17 September 2007 5 years 17 September 2012 12 17 March 2008 5 years 17 March 2013 30 30 17 April 2009 3 years 10 April 2012 591 10 September 2009 3 years 10 September 2012 14 10 September 2009 5 years 10 September 2014 6 17 13 April 2010 3 years 13 April 2013 1,225 1,283 13 April 2010 4 years 13 April 2014 338 344 13 April 2010 5 years 13 April 2015 1,458 1,508 8 September 2010 3 years 8 September 2013 297 373 30 March 2011 3 years 30 March 2014 656 656 30 March 2011 4 years 30 March 2015 362 362 30 March 2011 5 years 30 March 2016 357 371 27 September 2011 3 years 27 September 2014 113 148 27 September 2011 5 years 27 September 2016 43 43 19 April 2012 3 years 19 April 2015 512 19 April 2012 4 years 19 April 2016 6 19 April 2012 5 years 19 April 2017 21 13 September 2012 3 years 13 September 2015 112 13 September 2012 5 years 13 September 2017 12 5,548 5,781 106 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results As at 31 December 2012, 271 individuals 2011: 265 held outstanding awards under the DSP.
Awards made under the DSP are subject to rolled-up dividends whereby the number of shares awarded will be increased on the vesting date to reflect dividends paid to shareholders during the deferred period.
A reconciliation of award movements over the year to 31 December 2012 is shown below: 2012 2011 Weighted Weighted average average Number share price Number share price of shares at date of shares at date 000 of exercise 000 of exercise Outstanding at 1 January 5,781 5,164 Granted 664 1,593 Forfeited 111 116 Exercised 786 359.6p 860 358.0p Outstanding at 31 December 5,548 5,781 Exercisable at 31 December The weighted average exercise price for awards granted under this scheme is nil 2011: nil.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 31 December 2012 is 1.6 years 2011: 2.3 years.
26 e. Performance Share Plan The following awards of deferred shares, without exercise price, have been granted under the Performance Share Plan the PSP and were outstanding at 31 December 2012: 2012 2011 Number of Number of shares shares Date of award Vesting date 000 000 27 May 2011 27 May 2014 552 552 17 April 2012 17 April 2015 Approved 34 17 April 2012 17 April 2015 Unapproved 621 1,207 552 As at 31 December 2012, 9 individuals 2011: 9 held outstanding awards under the PSP.
Awards made under the PSP are subject to rolled-up dividends whereby the number of shares awarded will be increased on the vesting date to reflect dividends paid to shareholders during the deferred period.
A reconciliation of award movements over the year to 31 December 2012 is shown below: 2012 2011 Weighted Weighted average average Number of share price Number of share price shares at date shares at date 000 of exercise 000 of exercise Outstanding at 1 January 552 Granted 655 552 Outstanding at 31 December 1,207 552 Exercisable at 31 December The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 31 December 2012 is 1.9 years 2011: 2.4.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 107 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued 26 f. Fair value of options Options and awards for the Sharesave Scheme, PSP and ESOS were valued at fair value using the Actuarial Binomial model of actuaries Lane Clark & Peacock LLP.
The key assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: Risk free rate 0.5% p. a.
4.9% p. a. depending on grant date and expected life Volatility 29% p. a.
51% p. a. depending on grant date Correlation 46% 57% correlation for company share price against comparator index at grant date PSP only Employee turnover Zero for ESOS and PSP, 2.5% p. a. for Sharesave Early exercise 50% of employees exercise early when options and awards are 20% in the money ESOS and SAYE Performance criteria All vest after three years only relevant for ESOS The expected volatility is measured over the three years prior to the date of grant to match the vesting period of the award.
The risk free rate is the yield on a zero coupon UK Government bond at each grant date, with term based on the expected life of the option oraward.
108 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results 27.
Retained earnings and other reserves Share-based Profit Total Capital Foreign payments Treasury and loss retained redemption exchange Revaluation Total other reserve shares account earnings reserve reserves reserves reserves Group m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2012 24.1 30.1 99.4 93.4 0.3 23.8 0.5 23.6 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 38.5 38.5 Other comprehensive income 1.5 1.5 3.6 0.8 2.8 Employee share option scheme: Value of services provided 10.4 10.4 Exercise of options 9.3 8.1 1.2 Purchase of treasury shares 1.6 1.6 Dividends 16.9 16.9 Transactions with non-controlling interests 4.2 4.2 Balance at 31 December 2012 25.2 23.6 119.5 121.1 0.3 20.2 0.3 20.8 Balance at 1 January 2011 23.4 30.3 105.8 98.9 0.3 23.7 0.2 24.2 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 26.5 26.5 Other comprehensive income 15.5 15.5 0.1 0.7 0.6 Employee share option scheme: Value of services provided 11.3 11.3 Exercise of options 10.6 10.3 0.3 Purchase of treasury shares 10.1 10.1 Dividends 16.3 16.3 Transactions with non-controlling interests 1.4 1.4 Balance at 31 December 2011 24.1 30.1 99.4 93.4 0.3 23.8 0.5 23.6 Included within Profit and loss account is tax on items taken directly to equity Note 11 as disclosed above.
Contingent liabilities In common with comparable professional services businesses, the Group is involved in a number of disputes in the ordinary course of business.
Provision is made in the financial statements for all claims where costs are likely to be incurred and represents the cost of defending and concluding claims.
The Group carries professional indemnity insurance and no separate disclosure is made of the cost of claims covered by insurance as to do so could seriously prejudice the position of the Group.
Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments Property leases Other leases Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Group m m m m m m Future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Within 1 year 18.4 19.9 3.4 3.0 21.8 22.9 Between 1 to 5 years 64.7 67.1 3.1 3.6 67.8 70.7 After 5 years 143.9 98.0 143.9 98.0 227.0 185.0 6.5 6.6 233.5 191.6 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 109 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 continued Operating lease commitments payable by the Company at 31 December 2012 2011: 89.5m are shown below.
Property leases Other leases Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Company m m m m m m Future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Within 1 year Between 1 to 5 years 16.8 10.1 16.8 10.1 After 5 years 121.1 79.4 121.1 79.4 137.9 89.5 137.9 89.5 During the year, the Group entered into a 20 year lease for an office building in London from December 2012.
The Group will relocate from its two existing premises in Londons West End.
Significant operating leases relate to the various property leases for Savills offices in the United Kingdom, Europe and Asia Pacific.
There are no significant non-cancellable subleases.
Capital commitments Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Contracts placed for future expenditure not provided for in the financial statements 7.1 7.1 Capital commitments of 7.1m 2011: nil reflect contracts placed for the fit out of the Groups new head office at 33 Margaret Street, London.
Cash generated from used in operations Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Profit loss for the year 38.8 26.8 0.7 46.5 Adjustments for: Income tax Note 11 15.4 13.2 2.8 1.2 Depreciation Note 15 7.2 7.1 0.8 0.7 Amortisation of intangible assets Note 14 3.7 3.7 0.5 0.5 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.3 Impairment of goodwill Note 14 5.4 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, joint venture and available-for-sale investment Note 6 a & b 1.7 2.3 Net finance income Note 10 0.3 0.1 1.6 1.9 Share of post-tax profit from associates and joint ventures Note 16 a 7.1 4.0 Decrease in employee and retirement obligations 7.2 3.5 0.4 Exchange movement on operating activities 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 Increase decrease in provisions 5.1 4.2 0.1 Credit for defined benefit pension scheme Note 9 0.8 1.0 0.3 0.1 Impairment of associated undertaking and available-for-sale investment included within operating income 1.2 2.0 Charge for share-based compensation Note 26 f 10.4 11.3 2.1 0.9 Exercise of share options 8.0 10.1 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 64.7 62.9 9.8 34.6 Decrease increase in work in progress 1.2 0.6 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 31.3 9.5 1.5 4.5 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 36.9 5.7 4.5 0.6 Cash generated from used in operations 71.5 47.1 3.8 29.5 110 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results 32.
Analysis of cash net of debt Exchange At At 1 January Cash flows movement 31 December 2012 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 80.0 14.4 1.6 92.8 Bank overdrafts 1.2 1.0 0.1 0.1 78.8 15.4 1.5 92.7 Bank loans 5.0 3.8 0.2 1.0 Finance Leases 0.2 0.1 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents net of debt 73.6 19.3 1.3 91.6 Exchange At At 1 January Cash flows movement 31 December 2011 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 97.2 17.5 0.3 80.0 Bank overdrafts 0.7 0.5 1.2 96.5 18.0 0.3 78.8 Bank loans 9.0 3.9 0.1 5.0 Loan notes 0.4 0.4 Finance Leases 0.2 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents net of debt 86.9 13.7 0.4 73.6 33.
Related party transactions There were no significant related party transactions during the year.
All related party transactions take place on an arms length basis.
Loans to related parties Loans to associates and joint ventures are disclosed in Note 16 a.
Company transactions The Company provided corporate function services to its subsidiaries at an arms-length value of 12.5m 2011: 11.6m.
No dividends were received from subsidiaries during the year 2011: 40.0m.
Amounts outstanding to and from subsidiaries as at 31 December 2012 are disclosed in Notes 18, 20 and 21.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 111
