151 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 notice of Annual General Meeting nd notice is hereby given that the 72 Annual General Meeting AGM of St. Modwen Properties PLC the Company will be held at the th Marketing Suite, Innovation Centre, 1 Devon Way, Longbridge Technology Park, Birmingham B31 2TS on Wednesday 27 March 2013 at 12.00 noon to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 14 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 15, 16 and 17 will be proposed as special resolutions.
That the report of the directors and the accounts for the year ended 30 november 2012 be received.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 november 2012 be approved.
That a final dividend of 2.42p per ordinary share for the year ended 30 november 2012 be declared and payable to shareholders th on the register of members at the close of business on 4 April 2013.
That Kay Chaldecott be elected as a director.
That Steve Burke be re-elected as a director.
That Simon Clarke be re-elected as a director.
That Michael Dunn be re-elected as a director.
That Lesley James be re-elected as a director.
That Bill Oliver be re-elected as a director.
That John Salmon be re-elected as a director.
That Bill Shannon be re-elected as a director.
That Deloitte LLP be reappointed as auditor of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
That the directors be authorised to determine the remuneration of the Companys auditor.
That, in substitution for all existing authorities and without prejudice to previous allotments or offers or agreement to allot made pursuant to such authorities, the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to: a allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,678,698 the Section 551 amount : and b allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 6,678,698 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue to: i ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors otherwise consider necessary, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any country or territory, th such authorities to expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held after the date of the passing of this resolution or 26 June 2014, whichever is the earlier, but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements before the expiry of such authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares to be granted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares or grant such rights under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
That, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to the passing of resolution 14, the directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 for cash pursuant to the authority granted by resolution 14 and or where the allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the Companies Act 2006, in each case free of the restriction in section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, such power to be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph a of resolution 14 and or an allotment which constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the Companies Act 2006 in each case otherwise than in the circumstances set out in paragraph b of this resolution up to a nominal amount of 1,001,805 the Section 561 amount : and Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 152 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 notice of Annual General Meeting continued b the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but in the case of an allotment pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph b of resolution 14, such power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue only : i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors otherwise consider necessary, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any country or territory, th such power to expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held after the date of the passing of this resolution or 26 June 2014, whichever is the earlier, but so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements before the power expires which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such power expires and the directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases as defined in section 693 of the 2006 Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in its capital Ordinary Shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors may from time to time determine provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 20,036,093: b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 10p exclusive of expenses : c the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is the highest of in each case exclusive of expenses : i an amount equal to 105% of the average market value of an Ordinary Share for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for any number of Ordinary Shares on the London Stock Exchange: and d this authority shall, unless previously renewed, expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held after the date of the th passing of this resolution or 26 June 2014, whichever is the earlier, except in relation to the purchase of any Ordinary Shares the contract for which was concluded before the date of expiry of the authority and which would or might be contemplated wholly or partly after that date.
That a general meeting other than an AGM may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board Tanya Stote Company Secretary st 21 February 2013 St. Modwen Properties PLC Registered number: 349201 Registered Office: Sir Stanley Clarke House 7 Ridgeway Quinton Business Park Birmingham B32 1AF 153 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 explanatOry nOtes tO prOpOsed resOlutiOns Resolution 1 Report and accounts th Resolution 1 is an ordinary resolution to receive the accounts and the report of the directors for the year ended 30 november 2012.
Copies will be available at the AGM.
Resolution 2 Directors Remuneration Report th Resolution 2 is an ordinary resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 november 2012.
Section 439 of the Companies Act 2006 requires that quoted companies put before shareholders in general meeting a resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
As the vote is advisory, it does not affect the actual remuneration paid to any individual director.
The report, which summarises the Companys policy on directors remuneration, is set out on pages 81 to 94.
Resolution 3 Declaration of final dividend Resolution 3 is an ordinary resolution by which shareholders are asked to declare a final dividend.
The directors recommend a final th th dividend of 2.42p per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 30 november 2012.
If approved, this will be paid on 4 April 2013 to th shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 March 2013.
Resolutions 4 to 11 Election and re-election of directors Resolutions 4 to 11 are ordinary resolutions which deal with the election and re-election of the directors.
nd Following her appointment to the Board on 22 October 2012 and in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, KayChaldecott will retire and offer herself for election at the 2013 AGM.
Katherine Innes Ker and David Garman will retire from theBoard at the end of the AGM.
All other directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the UK CorporateGovernance Code.
Biographical details of all directors are set out on pages 64 and 65.
The performance of the Board as a whole, as well as the contribution made by individual directors, has been reviewed during the course of the year.
After considering this evaluation, the Chairman has confirmed that the performance of every executive and nonexecutive director continues to be effective, that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their respective roles and that their respective skills complement one another to enhance the overall operation of the Board.
Resolutions 12 and 13 Auditor appointment and remuneration At last years AGM shareholders reappointed Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
Deloitte have indicated that they are willing to continue as the Companys auditors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process and recommends their reappointment.
Therefore resolutions 12 and 13 are ordinary resolutions to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
Resolution 14 Authority to allot shares The authority conferred on the directors at last years AGM to allot shares in the Company expires at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
Resolution 14 is an ordinary resolution to renew this authority.
The Association of British Insurers ABI guidelines on directors authority to allot shares state that ABI members will permit, and treat as routine, resolutions seeking authority to allot new shares representing up to one-third of a companys issued share capital.
In addition, they will treat as routine a request for authority to allot shares representing an additional one-third of a companys issued share capital provided that it is only used to allot shares pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
Paragraph a of resolution 14 will, if passed, authorise the directors to allot shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of th 6,678,698 which represents one-third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 11 February 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM.
Paragraph b of resolution 14 proposes that, in accordance with ABI guidance, an additional authority be conferred on the directors to allot shares in connection with a rights issue up to a further maximum aggregate nominal amount of 6,678,698.
The authorities sought in paragraphs a and b of resolution 14 are in substitution for all existing authorities granted in the Companys Articles of Association or otherwise, and are without prejudice to previous allotments or agreements or offers to allot made under such th existing authorities.
The authorities will each expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company and 26 June 2014.
The directors have no present intention of exercising these authorities other than to fulfil the Companys obligations under its share incentive schemes approved previously by shareholders, but believe that it is in the best interests of the Company to have the authorities available to respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take place without the need for a general meeting should they determine that it is appropriate to do so.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 154 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 notice of Annual General Meeting continued explanatOry nOtes tO prOpOsed resOlutiOns cOntinued Resolution 15 Disapplication of pre-emption rights If the directors wish to allot new shares and other equity securities company law requires that these shares are offered first to shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
Resolution 15 is a special resolution which seeks to renew the authority conferred on the directors at last years AGM to issue equity securities of the Company for cash without application of the pre-emption rights as provided by section 561 of the Companies Act2006.
Paragraph a of resolution 15 will, if passed, authorise the directors to allot new shares pursuant to the authority given in paragraph a of resolution 14 for cash i in connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue or ii otherwise up to a maximum aggregate nominal th value of 1,001,805, equivalent to 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 11 February 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM in each case without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion totheir existing holdings.
In light of the ABI guidance described in the explanation of resolution 14 above, paragraph b of resolution 15 will, if passed, authorise the directors to allot new shares pursuant to the authority given by paragraph b of resolution 14 for cash in connection with a rights issue without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
The authorities sought in paragraphs a and b of resolution 15 are in substitution for all existing authorities granted in the Companys Articles of Association or otherwise, and are without prejudice to previous allotments or agreements or offers to allot made under such th existing authorities.
In accordance with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles dated July 2008, the directors confirm their intention not to issue more than 7.5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital for cash other than to existing shareholders in any rolling three-year period without prior consultation with shareholders.
Resolution 16 Authority to purchase shares Resolution 16 is a special resolution to renew the authority granted to the directors at last years AGM to make market purchases ofitsown ordinary shares through the market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and within institutional shareholder guidelines.
noshares were purchased during the year and the Company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.
If passed, the resolution gives authority for the Company to purchase up to 20,036,093 of its ordinary shares, which represents 10% th ofthe Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 11 February 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice ofAGM.
The resolution specifies the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid for any ordinary shares purchased th under thisauthority.
The authority will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company and 26 June2014.
The directors have no present intention for the Company to exercise the authority granted by this resolution to purchase its own shares.
They would do so only after taking account of the overall financial position of the Company and in circumstances where to do so would be regarded by the Board as being in the best interests of shareholders generally and result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share.
The Company may either cancel any shares it purchases under this authority or transfer them into treasury and subsequently sell or transfer them out of treasury or cancel them.
th As at 11 February 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM, the Company had options outstanding over 10,600,424 ordinary shares, representing 5.29% of the issued share capital on that date.
If the Company was to th purchase the maximum number ofshares permitted pursuant to this resolution, the options outstanding at 11 February 2013 would represent 6.61% of the issued share capital.
Resolution 17 Notice period of general meetings Resolution 17 is a special resolution to renew an authority granted at last years AGM to allow the Company to hold general meetings other than AGMs on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 increased the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 clear days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot be less than 14 clear days.
This approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21clear days notice.
155 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 sharehOlder nOtes 1.
Entitlement to attend and vote To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast, shareholders th must be entered on the Companys register of members at 6.00pm on Monday 25 March 2013 or, in the event of any adjournment, at 6.00pm on the date which is two days before the date of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Appointment of proxies general A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting convened by the notice of AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend and to speak and vote on his or her behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company but must attend the meeting in person.
For the appointment to be effective, a proxy form or electronic appointment of proxy, see note 4 must be received by the Companys th registrar not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting, i. e. not later than 12.00 noon on Monday 25 March 2013.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a shareholder from subsequently attending the meeting and voting in person if he or she is entitled to do so and so wishes.
Appointment of proxies proxy form A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions has been sent to shareholders.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms to appoint more than one proxy, please contact the Companys registrars, Equiniti, on 0871 384 2198 calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Call charges may vary if using other telephone providers.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Alternatively photocopy the proxy form which has been sent to you.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
The notes to the proxy form explain how to direct your proxy to vote on each resolution or withhold their vote.
Please note that the vote withheld option on the proxy form is provided to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution: it is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution.
If you sign the proxy form and return it without any specific directions your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion.
If you wish to appoint a proxy other than the Chairman of the meeting, please insert the name of your chosen proxy holder in the space provided on the proxy form.
If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please enter in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
If left blank your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if the proxy form has been issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior joint holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, in respect of the holding will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose seniority is determined by the order in which the names appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint holding.
In the case of a corporation, the proxy form must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of a duly authorised officer or attorney.
In the case of an individual, the proxy form must be signed by the appointing shareholder.
Any alterations made to the proxy form should be initialled.
Appointment of proxies electronically Shareholders who would prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the internet can do so through Equinitis website at www.
co. uk using their personal Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference number which are printed on the proxy form.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Equinitis online portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on the link to vote under their St. Modwen Properties PLC holding details.
Full details and instructions on these electronic proxy facilities are given on the respective websites.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than those provided or if received after 12.00 noon th on Monday 25 March 2013.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 156 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 notice of Annual General Meeting continued sharehOlder nOtes continued 5.
Appointment of proxies through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies for the AGM, and any adjournment s thereof, through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds EUI specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual available at www.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Equiniti ID RA19 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which Equiniti is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that EUI does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST Personal Member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Changing and revoking proxy instructions To change your proxy instruction simply submit a new proxy appointment using the methods set out above.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see note 2 also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share and for the same meeting, those received last by Equiniti will take precedence.
In order to revoke a proxy instruction, a shareholder will need to inform the Company by sending a signed hard copy notice clearly stating his her intention to revoke a proxy appointment to Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing Bn99 6DA.
In the case of a corporate shareholder, the revocation notice must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer of the Company or an attorney for the Company.
Any power of attorney or any other authority under which the revocation notice is signed or a duly certified copy of such power of attorney must be included with the revocation notice.
The revocation must be received no th later than 12.00 noon on Monday 25 March 2013.
If a shareholder attempts to revoke his or her proxy appointment but the revocation is received after the time specified then the original proxy appointment will remain valid.
Termination of proxy appointments made through CREST must be made in accordance with the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
Corporate representatives A corporate shareholder can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Representatives of shareholders that are corporations will have to produce evidence of their proper appointment when attending the AGM.
Please contact Equiniti for further guidance.
Nominated persons Any person to whom this notice is sent who is not a shareholder but is a person nominated by a shareholder under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a nominated Person may, under an agreement with the shareholder who nominated him her, have a right to be appointed, or have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the AGM.
If a nominated Person has no such right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give voting instructions to the shareholder.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies set out in notes 2 to 7 does not apply to nominated Persons.
The rights described in those notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
If you are a nominated Person it is important to remember that your main contact in terms of your investment remains the registered shareholder or the custodian or broker who administers the investment on your behalf.
157 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9.
Shareholder participation Any shareholder attending the AGM has the right to ask questions relating to the business of the meeting and the Company has an obligation to answer such questions unless i to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, ii the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Availability of information on website A copy of this notice of AGM, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found on the Companys website at www.
Website publication of audit concerns Shareholders satisfying the threshold requirements in section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter that such shareholder proposes to raise at the meeting relating to a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM or b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last AGM.
The Company cannot require the shareholders requesting the publication to pay its expenses in complying with the request.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Companys auditor no later than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required to publish on its website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006.
Total voting rights th As at 11 February 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM, the Companys issued share th capital consisted of 200,360,931 shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company as at 11 February 2013 was 200,360,931.
Documents available for inspection The following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours and will be at the place of the AGM from 11.45am until the end of the meeting: i copies of the directors service contracts with the Company: ii copies of the non-executive directors letters of appointment: and iii a copy of the Companys Articles of Association.
Communication with the Company You may not use any electronic address provided in this notice of AGM or any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
