149 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Glossary of Terms Annualised net rents gross rents as at a reporting date plus, where rent reviews are outstanding, any increases to estimated rental value as determined by the Groups external valuers, less any ground rents payable under head leases.
Active management the component of property revaluations delivered as a direct result of management actions and initiatives e. g. obtaining planning consent, achieving remediation milestones and improving lease terms.
BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method is an industry-wide system of standards to assess sustainable developments and measure the environmental impact of buildings.
Building Regulations the procedural regulations that set out what kind of work needs Building Regulations approval and how that approval should be obtained, together with the technical requirements that set the standards that should be achieved by the building work.
Compulsory purchase order CPO the compulsory acquisition of land by a planning authority, undertaken in the public interest and with pre-defined timescales and compensation arrangements.
EPRA the European Public Real Estate Association, a body that has put forward recommendations for best practice for financial reporting by real estate companies.
EPRA net asset value EPRA NAV the balance sheet net assets, excluding fair value adjustments for debt and related derivatives together with deferred taxation on revaluations and capital allowances.
EPRA net asset value per share EPRA net asset value divided by the diluted number of shares at the period end.
Estimated net rental income the passing cash rent less ground rent at the balance sheet date, estimated non-recoverable outgoings and void costs including service charges, insurance costs and void rates.
Estimated rental value ERV the Groups external valuers opinion as to the open market rent which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of the property.
Equivalent yield a weighted average of the initial yield and reversionary yield and represents the return a property will produce based on the timing of the income received.
Gearing the level of the Groups bank borrowing excluding finance leases expressed as a percentage of net assets.
Gross Development Value GDV the sale value of property after construction.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards.
Initial yield the annualised net rent expressed as a percentage of the valuation.
IPD Investment Property Databank Ltd. a company that produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
Land bank the bank of property comprising all of the land under the Groups control, whether wholly owned or through joint ventures or development agreements.
LIBOR the London Interbank Offered Rate is the average interest rate that leading banks in London charge when lending to other banks.
Loan-to-value ratio LTV the ratio of Group net debt to the Group property portfolio excluding joint ventures and associates.
Market value an opinion of the best price at which the sale of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups external valuers.
In accordance with usual practice, the Groups external valuers report valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty, agent and legal fees.
Net asset value NAV per share equity attributable to owners of the Parent divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the period end.
Net debt total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Net rental income the rental income receivable in the period after payment of ground rents and net property outgoings.
Net initial yield a calculation by the Groups external valuers as the yield that would be received by a purchaser, based on the estimated net rental income expressed as a percentage of the acquisition cost, being the market value plus assumed actual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
The calculation is in line with EPRA guidance.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 150 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Glossary of Terms continued Occupancy rates the ERV attributable to vacant units as a proportion of total ERV including the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
Operating income the total of net rental income, other income and property profits.
Operating costs business running costs administrative expenses plus net finance costs excluding the mark-to-market of derivative financial instruments and other non-cash items for the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Persimmon joint venture a contractual arrangement with Persimmon to develop residential units on agreed sites within the St. Modwen land bank.
Pre-sold projects those projects where we are constructing buildings that have been specified by, and designed for, or adapted by, a specific client under a specific construction contract.
On such projects, profit is recognised using the stage completion method.
Project MoDEL a project run for the Ministry of Defence MoD by the ministrys Defence Infrastructure Organisation and VSM Estates, a joint venture established between VInCI PLC and St. Modwen Properties.
The project involves the consolidation and sale of surplus Ministry of Defence properties around Greater London and the redevelopment of RAF northolt.
Property portfolio the property components of investment properties and inventories of the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Property profits development profit before the deduction of net realisable value provisions plus gains on disposals of investments investment properties for the Group, including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Rental lease length the weighted average lease term to the first tenant break.
Rent roll the gross rent plus rent reviews that have been agreed as at the reporting date.
RICS Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Section 106 agreements legally binding agreements reached with local planning authorities under S106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.
They address the impact of proposed developments on the local community and often involve a financial contribution by the developer.
See-through gearing the ratio of see-through net debt to net assets.
See-through loan-to-value ratio the ratio of see-through net debt to the property portfolio.
See-through net debt net debt of the Group together with its share of the net debt of joint ventures and associates.
SIC Standards and Interpretations Committee.
Trading profit operating income less operating costs.
TSR total shareholder return represents the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of stock.
Voids the ERV of vacant properties expressed as a percentage of the total ERV of the portfolio, excluding development properties.
Weighted average debt maturity each tranche of Group debt is multiplied by the remaining period to its maturity and the result is divided by total Group debt in issue at the period end.
Weighted average interest rate the Group loan interest and derivative costs per annum at the period end, divided by total Group debt in issue at the period end.
