Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the sixth Annual General Meeting of UK each shares either for retention as Treasury Shares for Commercial Property Trust Limited will be convened at Trafalgar future resale of transfer or cancellation, provided that: Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 3QL on 19 June i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be 2013 at 10.00 a. m. for the following purposes.
acquired shall be equal to 14.99 per cent of the Companys issued share capital on the date on which this resolution is Ordinary Resolutions passed: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions: ii the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid 1.
To approve and adopt the Annual Report and Accounts of the for a Share is 25p, being the nominal value per share: Company for the year ended 31 December 2012. iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be 2.
To approve and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report for paid for a Share shall not be more than the higher of i an the year to 31 December 2012. amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle 3.
To re-elect Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor to the Company until market quotations for a Share taken from the London Stock the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
Exchanges Daily Official List for the five business days 4.
To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors immediately preceding the day on which the Share is remuneration.
purchased and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock 5.
To elect Mr McCullagh as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Hill as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Fish as a Director of the Company.
iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 8.
To re-elect Mr Robertson as a Director of the Company.
2014 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 15 months from the 9.
To re-elect Mr Wilson as a Director of the Company.
passing of this resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and Special Resolutions To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as v the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under Special Resolutions: the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after 10.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of generally empowered, to allot ordinary shares in the Company Shares pursuant to any such contract.
or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities into, ordinary shares in the Company equity securities, including Notes: the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is into ordinary shares held by the Company as Treasury Shares entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, for cash as if any pre-emption rights in relation to the issue of speak and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a shares as set out in the listing rules made by the Financial member of the Company.
Services Authority under part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended did not apply to any such 2.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy is allotment of equity securities, provided that this power: appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting 3.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The form of of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on the proxy should be completed and sent, together with the power of expiry of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may, before notarially certified copy of such power or authority, so as to reach such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or Computershare Investor Services Jersey Limited, The Pavilions, might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, not later than 10.00 a. m. on and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of 17 June 2013. any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby 4.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent a had not expired: and member from attending in person at the Meeting.
If you have b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities up to an appointed a proxy and attend the meeting in person your proxy aggregate nominal value 30,969,850 being approximately appointment will remain valid and you may not vote at the 10 per cent of the nominal value of the issued share capital of meeting unless you have provided a hard copy notice to revoke the Company including Treasury Shares, as at 20 March the proxy to Computershare Investor Services Jersey Limited, The 2013.
Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY no less than 48 hours excluding any part of a day that is not a working day prior to the 11.
That the Company, be authorised in accordance with section commencement of the meeting as set out above.
315 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended, the Law to make market acquisitions within the meaning of 5.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and also section 316 I of the law of its own ordinary shares of 25p for the purposes of calculating how many votes a member may UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 47 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued cast on a poll a member must first have his or her name entered on the register of members at the close of business on the day which is two days before the date of the meeting.
Changes to entries in the register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and vote at such Meeting.
The Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection for fifteen minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the meeting itself 7.
Copies of the Articles of Association of the Company will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted until the close of the Annual General Meeting at the registered office of the Company.
As at 20 March 13, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 1,238,794,000 ordinary shares in issue with a total of 1,197,348,858 voting rights.
Any person holding 3 per cent of the total voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
By order of the Board Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited Secretary Trafalgar Court Les Banques St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 3QL Date 20 March 2013 48 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
