Corporate Information Directors all non-executive Guernsey Legal Advisors Christopher Hill Chairman Ozannes Keith Dorrian 1 Le Marchant Street Christopher Fish St Peter Port Ken McCullagh Guernsey GY1 4HP John Robertson Andrew Wilson UK Legal Advisors and Sponsor Dickson Minto W. S. Registered Office 16 Charlotte Square Trafalgar Court Edinburgh EH2 4DF Les Banques St Peter Port Maples Teesdale Guernsey 30 King Street London EC2V 8EE Registered Number Registrar 45387 Computershare NatWest House Le Truchot Administrator and Secretary St Peter Port Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey GY1 1WD Guernsey Limited Trafalgar Court Les Banques Principal Bankers and Lenders St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 3QL Barclays Bank plc Quay 2 139 Fountainbridge Investment Manager Edinburgh EH3 9QG Ignis Investment Services Limited Lloyds Banking Group 50 Bothwell Street Henry Duncan House Glasgow G2 6HR 120 George Street Edinburgh EH2 4LH Property Valuer CB Richard Ellis Limited Corporate P. R. Advisor St Martins Court FTI Consulting Limited 10 Paternoster Row Holborn Gate London EC4M 7HP 26 Southampton Buildings London WC2A 1PB Independent Auditors Ernst & Young LLP Corporate broker Royal Chambers JP Morgan Cazenove St Julians Avenue 25 Bank Street St Peter Port Canary Wharf Guernsey GY1 4AF London E14 5JP Website www.
co. uk 50 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Perivan Financial Print 227633 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 51 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED All Correspondence to: Computershare Investor Services Jersey Limited c o The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY Form of Proxy - Annual General Meeting to be held on 19 June 2013 To be effective, all proxy appointments must be lodged with the Companys Registrars at: c o The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY by 17 June 2013 at 10.00 am.
Every holder has the right to appoint some other person s of their choice, 5.
To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether who need not be a shareholder, as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights, previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
If you wish to appoint must be received by the issuer's agent ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 a person other than the Chairman, please insert the name of your chosen hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the proxy holder in the space provided see reverse.
If the proxy is being appointed time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please enter in the box next generated by the CREST system from which the issuer's agent is able to to the proxy holder's name see reverse the number of shares in relation to retrieve the message.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
If returned without an indication sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 34 of the as to how the proxy shall vote on any particular matter, the proxy will exercise Uncertificated Securities Guernsey Regulations 2009. his discretion as to whether, and if so how, he votes or if this proxy form has 6.
The above is how your address appears on the Register of Members.
If this been issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the proxy information is incorrect please ring the Registrar's helpline on 0870 707 4040 will exercise his discretion as to whether, and if so how, he votes.
to request a change of address form or go to www.
To appoint more than one proxy, an additional proxy form s may be obtained use the online Investor Centre service.
by contacting the Registrar's helpline on 0870 707 4040 or you may photocopy 7.
Any alterations made to this form should be initialled.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy holder's name see 8.
The completion and return of this form will not preclude a member from reverse the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act attending the meeting and voting in person.
Please also indicate by marking the box provided if the proxy 9.
To allow effective continuation of the meeting or any adjourned meeting, if instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed it is apparent to the Chairman that no Shareholders will be present in person and should be returned together in the same envelope.
or by proxy, other than by proxy in the Chairman's favour, the Chairman may 3.
The 'Vote Withheld' option overleaf is provided to enable you to abstain on appoint a substitute to act as proxy in their stead for any Shareholder, provided any particular resolution.
However, it should be noted that a 'Vote Withheld' that such substitute proxy shall vote on the same basis as the Chairman.
is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes 'For' and 'Against' a resolution.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Guernsey Regulations 2009, entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting and the number of votes which may be cast thereat will be determined by reference to the Register of Members of the Company at close of business on the day which is two days before the day of the meeting.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
Kindly Note: This form is issued only to the addressee s and is specific to the unique designated account printed hereon.
This personalised form is not transferable between different: i account holders: or ii uniquely designated accounts.
The Company and Computershare Investor Services Jersey Limited accept no liability for any instruction that does not comply with these conditions.
110014 51687 RUN ONS 000002 000002 SG151 i Form of Proxy Please complete this box only if you wish to appoint a third party proxy other than the Chairman or the Company Secretary.
Please leave this box blank if you want to select the Chairman or the Company Secretary.
Do not insert your own name s. I We hereby appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or the Company Secretary OR the person indicated in the box above as my our proxy to attend, speak and vote in respect of my our full voting entitlement on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED to be held at Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 3QL on 19 June 2013 at 10.00 am, and at any adjourned meeting.
For the appointment of more than one proxy, please refer to Explanatory Note 2 see front.
Mark with an X Please mark here to indicate that this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made.
inside the box as shown in this example.
Vote For Against Withheld Ordinary Resolutions 1.
To approve and adopt the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012.
To approve and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to 31 December 2012.
To re-elect Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor to the Company until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
To elect Mr McCullagh as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Hill as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Fish as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Robertson as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Wilson as a Director of the Company.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby generally empowered, to allot ordinary shares in the Company free from pre-emption rights.
That the Company be authorised to make market acquisitions of its own ordinary shares.
I We instruct my our proxy as indicated on this form.
Unless otherwise instructed the proxy may vote as he or she sees fit or abstain in relation to any business of the meeting.
Signature Date In the case of a corporation, this proxy must be given under its common seal or be signed on its behalf by an attorney or officer duly authorised, stating their capacity e. g. director, secretary.
H 7 4 5 1 8 U K C J Ignis Investment Services Limited does not accept liability for any claims or losses of any nature arising directly or indirectly Contact: from use of the data or material in this report.
The information supplied is not intended to consitute investment, tax legal or other advice.
Ignis Investment Services Ltd 50 Bothwell St Ignis Asset Management is the trading name of the Ignis Asset Management Limited group of companies which includes Ignis Asset Management Limited, Ignis Fund Managers and Ignis Investment Services Limited.
Issued by Ignis Investment Services Glasgow G2 6HR Limited.
Registered Office: 50 Bothwell Street, Glasgow G2 6HR.
Authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
