Berendsen plc Report and 100 Accounts 2012 Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of the consolidated b Pensions and other postd Share-based payments employment benefits The economic cost of awarding shares financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to The group operates a number and share options to employees is of defined benefit schemes within reflected by recording a charge in the make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and the UK and Europe note 27. income statement equivalent to the As at 31 December 2012 the present fair value of the benefit awarded over reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, expenses and related value of the groups defined benefit the vesting period.
The fair values of obligation for funded plans was a the awards are determined by use of disclosures.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are based on surplus of 19.5 million and a deficit the Black-Scholes model.
of 40.0 million for unfunded plans.
historical experience and other e Provisions relevant factors.
This approach forms The calculations of the recognised Provisions for vacant properties, assets and liabilities from such plans the basis of making the judgements restructuring costs and legal claims about carrying values of assets and are based upon statistical and are recognised when the group actuarial calculations.
In particular liabilities that are not readily apparent has a present legal or constructive from other sources.
Actual results may the present value of the defined obligation as a result of past events differ from these estimates.
benefit obligation is impacted by and it is more likely than not that an assumptions on discount rates used to The estimates and underlying outflow of resources will be required arrive at the present value of future to settle the obligation: and the assumptions are reviewed on an pension liabilities, and assumptions on ongoing basis.
Changes in accounting amount has been reliably estimated.
future increases in salaries and estimates may be necessary if there benefits.
Furthermore, the groups f Clinical Solutions and are changes in the circumstances on independent actuaries use statistically Decontamination business which the estimate was based, or as a based assumptions covering areas The Clinical Solutions and result of new information.
Such such as future withdrawals of Decontamination business is changes are recognised in the period participants from the plan and separated into individual Cash in which the estimate is revised.
Generating Units CGU as there are The key assumptions about the The actuarial assumptions used may separate assets and cash flows for future and key sources of estimation differ materially from actual results each CGU.
As a result of ongoing uncertainty that have a risk of causing due to changes in market and losses on the two decontamination a material adjustment to the carrying economic conditions, higher or lower contracts, a provision for 9.9 million value of assets and liabilities within the withdrawal rates or longer or shorter was recognised in 2010.
The key next 12 months are described below.
life spans of participants and other assumption used in determining the changes in the factors being assessed.
onerous contract provision is the a Property, plant and equipment and These differences could impact the period over which mitigating actions intangible assets, including goodwill assets or liabilities recognised in the are planned to achieve a financially The group has property, plant and balance sheet in future periods.
This period was equipment with a carrying value of The last triennial valuation of the assessed in 2010 as being four years, 513.7 million note 10, goodwill with main UK pension scheme took place with the losses being principally a carrying value of 424.0 million in February 2010. incurred in the first two years.
note 8 and intangible assets with a 2.2 million of the provision was c Income taxes carrying value of 77.0 million note utilised in 2012.
These assets are reviewed annually At 31 December 2012, the net liability for current income taxes is 6.7 million The remaining provision is expected for impairment as described above.
A value in use model is used.
and the net liability for deferred to be used over the next two years.
income taxes is 38.3 million If there was a one year delay to any To assess if any impairment exists, estimates are made of the future cash note 19.
Estimates may be required of the mitigating actions referred in determining the level of current to above then the onerous contract flows expected to result from the use of the assets and their eventual and deferred income tax assets provision would increase by and liabilities, which management 2.5 million.
Actual outcomes could vary from such estimates of discounted believes are reasonable and on track with our turnaround plan adequately recognises any income and are planning the transition future cash flows.
Factors such as changes in the planned use of tax related uncertainties.
to our service of both new volumes from existing contracts and from buildings, machinery or equipment, Various factors may have favourable or closure of facilities, the presence of a significant new contract in 2013. or unfavourable effects on the income competition, or lower than anticipated tax assets and liabilities.
These include sales could result in shortened useful changes in tax laws in the jurisdiction lives or impairment.
we operate in, tax rates, interpretations of existing tax laws, future levels of spending and in overall levels of future earnings.
