Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 85 Directors responsibilities for the financial statements The directors are responsible for The directors are responsible for In accordance with DTR 4.1.
12, each preparing the Report and Accounts and ensuring that the group and the ofthe directors confirms that, to the the financial statements in accordance company keep accounting records bestoftheir knowledge: with applicable law and regulations.
which show and explain the companys i t he financial statements of the transactions, disclose with reasonable group, prepared in accordance with Company law requires the directors accuracy, at any time, the financial toprepare financial statements for International Financial Reporting position of the group and the company Standards as adopted by the EU, eachfinancial year.
Under that law which enable them to ensure that the thedirectors have prepared the group andthe financial statements of the financial statements comply with the company, prepared in accordance financial statements in accordance Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 withInternational Financial Reporting with United Kingdom Generally ofthe IAS Regulation and the parent Accepted Accounting Practice, Standards IFRSs as adopted by company financial statements comply theEuropean Union, and the parent giveatrue and fair view of the with the Companies Act 2006.
The assets, liabilities, financial position company financial statements in directors have a general responsibility for accordance with applicable law and andprofit or loss of the company taking such steps as are reasonably open andthe undertakings included in the United Kingdom Accounting Standards to them to safeguard the assets of the United Kingdom Generally Accepted consolidation taken as a whole: and group and company and to prevent and Accounting Practice.
The group and detect fraud and other irregularities.
ii t he management report, which parent company financial statements isincorporated into the Directors arerequired by law to give a true and This statement, which should be read report, includes a fair review of the fairview of the state of affairs of the inconjunction with the Auditors Report, development and performance company and the group and of the is made with a view to distinguishing for ofthebusiness and the position of profitor loss of the company and members the respective responsibilities thecompany and the undertakings groupfor that period.
of the directors and the auditors in included in the consolidation taken relation to the financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 86 asa whole, together with a description to152 have been prepared on a going A copy of the Annual Report and the of the principal risks and uncertainties concern basis, suitable accounting financial statements of the company they face.
policies have been used and applied areon the companys website at The current directors and their functions consistently, reasonable and prudent www.
The directors are listed on pages 52 and 53. judgements and estimates have been areresponsible for the maintenance made and applicable accounting andintegrity of the companys website, By order of the board standards have been followed.
and the work carried out by the auditorsdoes not involve consideration David Lawler Company Secretary of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors acceptno responsibility for 28 February 2013 anychangesthat may have occurred tothefinancial statements since they wereplaced on the website.
Information published onthe internet is accessible inmany countries with different legalrequirements.
Legislation in theUnitedKingdom governing the preparation anddissemination offinancial statements may differ fromlegislation inother jurisdictions.
Berendsen plc Report and 86 Accounts 2012 Financial statements In this section: 87 Independent auditors report 88 Consolidated income statement 89 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 90 Consolidated balance sheet 91 Consolidated cash flow statement 92 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 94 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements 100 Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 143 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc 144 Parent company financial statements 145 Accounting policies to the parent company financial statements 147 Notes to the parent company financial statements 152 Five year record
