Berendsen plc Report and 94 Accounts 2012 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements Basis of preparation The following new standards, All intra-group transactions are amendments to standards and eliminated as part of the consolidation The consolidated financial statements interpretations have been issued, process.
Accounting policies of have been prepared in accordance but are not effective for the financial subsidiaries have been changed where with International Financial Reporting year beginning 1 January 2012 necessary to ensure consistency with Standards as adopted by the the policies adopted by the group.
and have not been early-adopted.
European Union IFRSs as adopted Their expected impact is still being by the EU, IFRIC Interpretations and Business combinations assessed by management: the Companies Act 2006 applicable The group uses the acquisition to companies reporting under IFRS.
IFRS 7 amendment, Financial method of accounting to account The consolidated financial statements instruments: disclosures on for business combinations.
have been prepared under the fide-recognition.
The consideration transferred for historical cost convention, as modified IFRS 9, Financial instruments the acquisition of a subsidiary is the by financial assets and financial IAS 1 amendment, Financial fair values of the assets transferred, liabilities including derivative statement presentation, regarding the liabilities incurred and the equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income.
interests issued by the group.
These policies IAS 16 Property, plant and The consideration transferred have been consistently applied to equipment.
includes the fair value of any asset all the years presented.
IAS 32, Financial instruments, or liability resulting from a contingent presentation.
The preparation of financial consideration arrangement.
statements in conformity with IFRS Acquisition-related costs are IFRS 9, Financial instruments.
requires the use of certain critical expensed as incurred and disclosed IFRS 10, Consolidated financial accounting estimates.
It also requires as exceptional items where significant.
management to exercise its Identifiable assets acquired and IFRS 11, Joint arrangements.
judgement in the process of applying liabilities and contingent liabilities IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in the groups accounting policies.
assumed in a business combination other entities.
The areas involving a higher degree are measured initially at their fair IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
of judgement or complexity, or areas values at the acquisition date.
IAS 27, separate financial where assumptions and estimates The excess of the consideration instruments.
are significant to the consolidated transferred, the amount of any IAS 28, Associates and joint financial statements are disclosed non-controlling interest in the ventures.
on page 100. acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in In accordance with paragraph 14 of IAS 19 amendment, the acquiree over the fair value of the IAS 7 the group has accounted for the Employee benefits groups share of the identifiable net special pension contribution payments The company will adopt Revised assets acquired is recorded as made in 2012, 5 million, as part of its IAS 19 with effect from 1 January 2013. goodwill.
If this is less than the fair cash generated from operations.
In As this is a change in policy the 2012 value of the net assets of the 2011 the special pension payment was accounts as presented here will be subsidiary acquired in the case of a shown as part of the cash used in restated with effect from 1 January bargain purchase, the difference is investing activities and consequently 2012.
The likely impact of this change recognised directly in the statement the 2011 cash flow statement has been is set out in note 27. of comprehensive income.
restated to show this amount, also 5 million, within cash generated from Consolidation Current assets held for sale operations, for comparative purposes.
This reclassification has no impact in The group financial statements Current assets and disposal either year on the net increase or consolidate the financial statements groups classified as held for sale decrease in cash.
of the company and all its subsidiaries.
are measured at the lower of carrying Subsidiaries are all entities over amount and fair values less costs The following new standards and which the group has the power to to sell.
amendments to standards are govern the financial and operating Current assets and disposal groups mandatory for the first time policies generally accompanying a for the financial year beginning are classified as held for sale if their shareholding of more than one half of carrying amount will be recovered 1 January 2012: the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully through a sale transaction rather than consolidated from the date on which IFRS 7, Financial instruments: through continuing use.
control is transferred to the group and is regarded as met only when the sale are fide-consolidated from the date on IAS 12, Income taxes, on deferred is highly probable and the asset income.
or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present The following new and amended standards and interpretations are condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2012 be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year and have not had a material impact on the group: from the date of classification.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 95 Segment reporting Foreign exchange gains and losses Pre-contract bid costs that relate to borrowings and cash Operating segments are reported in Pre-contract costs are expensed as and cash equivalents are presented in a manner consistent with the internal incurred until the group is appointed the income statement within finance reporting provided to the chief preferred bidder.
Preferred bidder income or cost.
All other foreign operating decision-maker.
The chief status provides sufficient confidence exchange gains and losses are operating decision-maker, who is that the conclusion of the contract is presented in the income statement responsible for allocating resources probable, the outcome can be reliably within other losses gains net.
and assessing performance of the measured and is expected to generate operating segments, has been Translation differences on nonsufficient net cash inflows to enable identified as the Berendsen plc monetary financial assets and liabilities recovery.
Pre-contract costs incurred executive board.
are reported as part of the fair value subsequent to appointment as gain or loss.
Translation differences preferred bidder are capitalised onto Following the strategic review of the on non-monetary financial assets the balance sheet under prepayments business presented in November 2010, and liabilities such as equities held and accrued income.
The prepayment from 1 January 2012 the Berendsen plc at fair value through profit or loss are is expensed to the income statement executive board manages the recognised in profit or loss as part of over the period of the contract.
Costs, business under the business lines the fair value gain or loss.
Translation which have been expensed, are not of Workwear, Facility, UK Flat Linen, differences on non-monetary financial subsequently reinstated when a Flat Linen outside the UK, and Clinical assets such as equities classified as contract award is achieved.
From available for sale are included in the the same date the groups internal fair value reserve in equity.
Property, plant and equipment reporting structure was aligned on the same basis.
2011 segment information c Group companies Land and buildings comprise mainly The results and financial position factories and offices.
All property, is presented on a basis consistent with the new reporting structure.
of all the group entities that have a plant and equipment are shown at functional currency different from the cost less subsequent depreciation.
Foreign currency translation presentation currency are translated Cost includes expenditure that is into the presentation currency directly attributable to the acquisition a Functional and as follows: of the items.
presentation currency Textile assets such as garments Items included in the financial assets and liabilities for each statements of each of the groups balance sheet presented are and linen and washroom equipment which are owned by the group entities entities are measured using the translated at the closing rate at currency of the primary economic the date of that balance sheet: where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of such environment in which the entity income and expenses for each operates the functional currency.
income statement are translated equipment is retained by group entities are capitalised as non-current The consolidated financial statements at average exchange rates are presented in sterling, which is the unless this average is not a assets and depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
companys functional and reasonable approximation of the presentation currency.
cumulative effect of the rates Depreciation of assets is calculated prevailing on the transaction dates, b Transactions and balances using the straight-line method to in which case income and expenses Foreign currency transactions are allocate the cost of each asset to its are translated at the rate on the translated into the functional currency residual value over its estimated useful dates of the transactions : and using the exchange rates prevailing life, as follows: all resulting exchange differences at the dates of the transactions.
are recognised as a separate a Land and buildings Foreign exchange gains and losses Depreciated at a rate of 2% per annum component of equity.
resulting from the settlement of such on an estimate of the buildings value transactions and from the translation On consolidation, exchange of freehold properties and leasehold at year-end exchange rates of differences arising from the translation properties with 50 or more years monetary assets and liabilities of the net investment in foreign unexpired at the balance sheet date.
denominated in foreign currencies are operations, and of borrowings This rate has been determined having recognised in the income statement, and other currency instruments regard to the groups practice to except when deferred in equity as designated as hedges of such maintain these assets in a continual qualifying cash flow hedges and investments, are taken to state of sound repair and to extend qualifying net investment hedges.
When a foreign and make improvements from time to operation is partially disposed of or time.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
sold, exchange differences that were Short leasehold land and buildings recorded in equity are recognised in are depreciated by equal instalments the income statement as part of the over the period of the lease.
Major renovations are depreciated Goodwill and fair value adjustments over the remaining useful life of the arising on the acquisition of a foreign related asset or to the scheduled date entity are treated as assets and of the next major renovation, liabilities of the foreign entity and whichever is sooner.
translated at the closing rate.
Berendsen plc Report and 96 Accounts 2012 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements b Plant and machinery Costs associated with maintaining Impairment of non-financial assets computer software programs are Depreciated at rates of 10% to 50% Assets that have an indefinite useful per annum, depending on the class recognised as an expense as incurred.
life for example, goodwill are not of the asset.
Development costs that are directly subject to amortisation and are tested attributable to the design and testing c Textile assets and washroom annually for impairment.
of identifiable and unique software equipment products controlled by the group are Assets that are subject to amortisation Depreciated at rates of 20% to 40%, recognised as intangible assets when or depreciation are reviewed for depending on class of asset, and the following criteria are met: impairment whenever events or augmented where necessary changes in circumstances indicate by amounts to cover wastage, it is technically feasible to complete that the carrying amount may not obsolescence and loss.
the software product so that it will be recoverable.
An impairment loss be available for use: When properties, plant or equipment is recognised for the amount by management intends to complete which the assets carrying amount are sold, the difference between the the software product and use or sales proceeds and net book value exceeds its recoverable amount.
sell it: is included in the income statement.
The recoverable amount is the higher there is an ability to use or sell the of an assets fair value less costs to Residual values and useful lives of software product: sell and value in use.
For the purposes assets are reviewed annually and it can be demonstrated how the of assessing impairment, assets are amended where necessary.
software product will generate grouped at the lowest levels for probable future economic benefits: which there are separately identifiable Intangible assets adequate technical, financial and cash flows cash-generating units.
other resources to complete the a Goodwill Non-financial assets other than development and to use or sell the goodwill that suffered impairment are Goodwill represents the excess of software product are available: and the cost of an acquisition over the fair reviewed for possible reversal of the the expenditure attributable to the impairment at each reporting date.
value of the groups share of the net software product during its identifiable assets of the acquired development can be reliably Financial assets subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill net of amortisation prior to The group classifies its non-derivative 1 January 2005 in respect of business Directly attributable costs that are financial assets as loans and combinations made since 1 January capitalised as part of the software receivables.
The classification depends 1998 is included within intangible product include the software on the purpose for which the financial assets.
Goodwill in respect of business development employee costs and assets were acquired.
Management combinations made on or before an appropriate portion of relevant determines the classification of its 31 December 1997 remains eliminated overheads.
financial assets at initial recognition.
Other development expenditures Loans and receivables are Goodwill has an indefinite useful life.
that do not meet these criteria are non-derivative financial assets with recognised as an expense as incurred.
Goodwill is tested annually for fixed or determinable payments that Development costs previously impairment or if there is an indication are not quoted in an active market.
recognised as an expense are of impairment.
Goodwill is allocated not recognised as an asset in to groups of cash-generating units Derivative financial instruments a subsequent period.
for the purpose of impairment testing.
and hedging activities Gains and losses on the disposal of an Computer software development Derivatives are initially recognised entity include the carrying amount costs recognised as assets are at fair value on the date a derivative of goodwill relating to the entity sold amortised over their estimated useful contract is entered into and are except for goodwill eliminated against lives, which does not exceed five subsequently remeasured at their reserves.
fair value at each balance sheet b Computer software c Customer contracts date.
The method of recognising the Intangible assets arising either from resulting gain or loss depends on Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis legal or contractual rights which have whether the derivative is designated been purchased are required to be as a hedging instrument, and if so, of the costs incurred to acquire and the nature of the item being hedged.
bring to use the specific software.
separately identified from goodwill and are stated at historical cost, or in These costs are amortised over their The group designates certain estimated useful lives not exceeding the case of intangible assets acquired derivatives as either i hedges of as part of a business combination, at three years.
the fair value of recognised assets fair value.
The fair value attributable to or liabilities fair value hedge : the customer contracts is determined or ii hedges of a particular risk by discounting the expected future associated with a recognised asset or cash flows to be generated from that liability, or a highly probable forecast asset at the risk adjusted weighted transaction cash flow hedge : or iii average cost of capital for the entity.
hedges of net investments in foreign This amount is amortised over the operations net investment hedge.
period in which the company is expected to benefit from the contracts acquired, over periods ranging from two to five years.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 97 The group documents at the inception When a hedging instrument expires Cash and cash equivalents or is sold, or when the hedge no Cash and cash equivalents are stated of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and longer meets the criteria for hedge net of bank overdrafts, where the accounting, any cumulative gain or group has a legal right of set off and hedged items and its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an loss in equity at that time remains in includes cash in hand, deposits held equity and is recognised when the at call with banks, other short-term ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in the forecast transaction ultimately occurs.
highly liquid investments with original When a forecast transaction is maturities of three months or less.
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair no longer expected to occur, the Share capital values of hedged items.
cumulative gain or loss that was Ordinary shares are classified as reported in equity will be transferred The fair value of various derivative to the income statement.
equity and are recorded at par value instruments used for hedging of proceeds received, net of direct purposes are shown in note 16. d Derivatives that do not qualify issue costs.
Where shares are issued Movements on the hedging reserve for hedge accounting above par value, the proceeds in are shown within the statement of Changes in the fair value of any excess of par value are recorded in changes in equity.
The group holds derivative instruments that do not the share premium account.
qualify for hedge accounting are Where any group company purchases recognised immediately in the a Fair value hedge income statement.
the companys equity share capital, Changes in the fair value of the the consideration paid, including any derivatives that are fully designated e Energy contracts directly attributable incremental costs, The group occasionally takes out and qualify as fair value hedges are is deducted from equity attributable recorded in the income statement, energy contracts in relation to the to the companys shareholders until supply of gas and electricity.
Such together with any changes in the the shares are cancelled, reissued or fair value of the hedged asset or contracts are not recognised as disposed of.
Where such shares are liability that are attributable to the derivative financial instruments as subsequently sold or reissued, any hedged risk.
they are held with the purpose of the consideration received, net of any receipt or delivery of a non-financial directly attributable incremental costs, The group has one fair value hedge item in accordance with the entitys in respect of a cross currency fixed is included in equity attributable to expected purchase, sale or usage the companys shareholders.
to floating interest rate swap.
hedge no longer meets the criteria Trade payables for hedge accounting, the exchange Inventories component of the derivative will Trade payables are obligations to Inventories are stated at the lower of continue to be taken to the income pay for goods or services that have statement other gains and losses cost and net realisable value.
Cost is been acquired in the ordinary course determined using the first in, first out along with the exchange on the of business from suppliers.
The cost of finished payable are classified as current goods and work in progress component of the derivative item will liabilities if payment is due within be amortised to the income statement comprises of raw materials, direct one year or less or in the normal labour, other direct costs and related over the period to maturity.
operating cycle of the business if production overheads.
Net realisable b Net investment hedge longer.
If not, they are presented value is the estimated selling price in as non-current liabilities.
Any gain or loss on the hedging the ordinary course of business, less instrument relating to the effective applicable variable selling expenses.
Trade payables are recognised portion of the hedge is recognised initially at fair value and subsequently Full provision is made for obsolete, directly against reserves.
The gain or defective and slow moving stock.
measured at amortised cost using the loss relating to any ineffective portion effective interest method.
is recognised immediately in the Trade and other receivables income statement.
Borrowings Trade receivables are recognised Gains and losses accumulated in initially at fair value less provision for Borrowings are recognised initially equity are included in the income at fair value, net of transaction impairment.
They are subsequently statement when the foreign operation held at amortised cost less provision costs incurred.
Borrowings are is partially disposed of or sold.
subsequently stated at amortised for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is cost.
Any difference between the c Cash flow hedge amount initially recognised net of The effective portion of changes in established when there is objective evidence that the group will not be transaction costs and the redemption the fair value of derivatives that are value is recognised in the income designated to qualify as cash flow able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of statement over the period of the hedges are recognised in equity.
borrowings using the effective The groups cash flow hedges which the receivables.
The amount of the change in provision is recognised in interest method.
are in respect of cross-currency interest rate swaps, interest rate the income statement.
swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts result in recognition in either the currency translation component of equity or in the hedging reserve.
Berendsen plc Report and 98 Accounts 2012 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements Borrowing costs which are directly Deferred income tax assets and The group recognises the surplus liabilities are offset when there is arising on its deferred benefit schemes attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a a legally enforceable right to offset to the extent that it has a legal right current tax assets against current tax to do so under the scheme rules.
qualifying asset one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready liabilities and when the deferred Current and past service costs, income taxes assets and liabilities for use or sale are capitalised as part to the extent they have vested, of the cost of that asset, until such relate to income taxes levied by the are recognised in operating costs in same taxation authority on either the time as the assets are ready for their the income statement together with intended use or sale.
taxable entity or different taxable interest costs on plan liabilities and entities where there is an intention to the expected return on plan assets.
All other borrowing costs are settle the balances on a net basis.
recognised in the income statement Cumulative actuarial gains and losses in the period in which they are Tax is recognised in the income arising from experience adjustments incurred.
statement except to the extent that and change in actuarial assumptions it relates to items recognised directly Borrowings are classified as nonare credited or charged to the in equity, in which case it is recognised statement of comprehensive income current liabilities where the group in equity.
has an unconditional right to defer and expense net of deferred tax.
settlement of the liability for at For defined contribution plans, the Employee benefits least 12 months after the balance group pays contributions to publicly sheet date.
a Pension obligations or privately administered pension The group operates various pension insurance or trustee administered Current and deferred income tax schemes.
The schemes are funded plans on a mandatory, contractual through payments to insurance The current income tax charge is or voluntary basis.
The group has companies or a trustee administered calculated on the basis of the tax laws no further payment obligations once fund, determined by periodic actuarial enacted or substantively enacted at the contributions have been paid.
The group has both the balance sheet date in the The contributions are recognised as defined benefit and defined countries where the groups employee benefit expense when they contribution plans.
A defined benefit subsidiaries operate and generate are due.
Prepaid contributions are plan is a pension plan that defines taxable income.
recognised as an asset to the extent an amount of pension benefit that an that a cash refund or a reduction in Deferred income tax is recognised, employee will receive on retirement, the future payments is available.
using the liability method, on usually dependent on one or more temporary differences arising between factors such as age, years of service b Share-based payment plans the tax bases of assets and liabilities and compensation.
A defined The groups management awards and their carrying amounts in the contribution plan is a pension plan employees share options, from time consolidated financial statements.
under which the group pays fixed to time, both on a discretionary However, the deferred income tax is contributions into a separate and non-discretionary basis which not accounted for, if it arises from entity.
The group has no legal or are subject to vesting conditions.
initial recognition of an asset or constructive obligations to pay further The economic cost of awarding the liability in a transaction other than a contributions if the fund does not hold share options to its employees is business combination that at the time sufficient assets to pay all employees recognised as an employee benefit of the transaction affects neither the benefits relating to employee service expense in the income statement accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
in the current and prior periods.
equivalent to the fair value of the Deferred income tax is determined benefit awarded.
The fair value is The net liability recognised in the using tax rates and laws that have determined by reference to the balance sheet in respect of defined been enacted or substantively Black-Scholes option pricing model.
benefit pension plans is the present enacted by the balance sheet date The charge is recognised in the value of the defined benefit obligation and are expected to apply when the income statement over the vesting at the balance sheet date less the fair period of the award.
related deferred income tax asset is value of plan assets, together with realised or the deferred income tax adjustments for unrecognised The proceeds received are credited liability is settled.
actuarial gains or losses and past to share capital nominal value and Deferred income tax assets are service costs.
The defined benefit share premium when the options are recognised to the extent that it is obligation is calculated annually exercised.
probable that future taxable profit by independent actuaries using will be available against which the the projected unit credit method.
temporary differences can be utilised.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by Deferred income tax is provided discounting the estimated future on temporary differences arising cash outflows using interest rates on investments in subsidiaries and of high quality corporate bonds that associates, except where the timing of are denominated in the currency in the reversal of the temporary which the benefits will be paid, and difference is controlled by the group that have terms to maturity and it is probable that the temporary approximating to the terms of the difference will not reverse in the related pension liability.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 99 c Termination benefits b Sale of goods revenue Income statement presentation For non-contract based business, Termination benefits are payable a Exceptional items when an employment is terminated revenue represents the value of Items that are material in size or goods delivered.
before the normal retirement date, non-operating in nature are presented or whenever an employee accepts Accrued income comprises revenue as exceptional items in the income voluntary redundancy in exchange statement.
The directors are of the contractually earned for services for these benefits.
The group performed that are invoiced to opinion that separate recording recognises termination benefits of exceptional items provides helpful the customer primarily in the when it is shown to be committed following month.
information about the groups to either: terminating the employment underlying business performance.
of current employees according Leases Examples of events, which may to a detailed formal plan without give rise to the classification of items possibility of withdrawal: or providing Leases of property, plant and as exceptional include, inter alia, equipment where the group has termination benefits as a result of an restructuring of businesses, gains offer made to encourage voluntary substantially all the risks and rewards and losses on disposal of properties, redundancy.
of ownership are classified as finance acquisition costs, impairment of leases.
Finance leases are capitalised d Holiday pay goodwill and non-recurring income.
at the leases commencement at Paid holidays are regarded as an the lower of the fair value of the b Amortisation of customer employee benefit and as such are leased property and the present contracts charged to the income statement as value of the minimum lease payments.
These are presented separately in the benefits are earned.
An accrual is Each lease payment is allocated the income statement as they arise made at the balance sheet date to between the liability and finance from acquisitions.
reflect the fair value of holidays charges so as to achieve a constant c Other operating expenses earned but not yet taken.
rate on the finance balance These comprise the groups intangible outstanding.
The corresponding lease asset amortisation.
Provisions obligations, net of finance charges, are Provisions for vacant properties, included in other long-term payables.
restructuring costs and legal claims The interest element of the finance are recognised when the group cost is charged to the income has a present legal or constructive statement over the lease period so as obligation as a result of past events to produce a constant periodic rate of and it is more likely than not that an interest on the remaining balance of outflow of resources will be required the liability for each period.
Property, to settle the obligation: and the plant and equipment acquired under amount has been reliably estimated.
finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the assets useful life A provision for onerous contracts and the lease term.
is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the group Leases where the lessor retains from a contract are lower than the substantially all the risks and rewards unavoidable cost of meeting its of ownership are classified as obligations under the contract.
Payments made under operating leases net of any Revenue recognition incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement Group revenue comprises the fair on a straight-line basis over the period value for the rendering of services, of the lease.
net of value added tax and other similar sales based taxes, rebates Dividend distribution and discounts and after eliminating sales within the group.
Revenue is Final dividend distribution to the recognised as follows: companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the groups financial a Service income statements in the period in which Income received or receivable in the dividends are approved by the respect of service income is credited companys shareholders.
Interim to revenue as and when services are dividends are recognised when paid.
rendered in respect of mats, linen, washroom and decontamination services.
Revenue is recognised on a per item basis for delivery of laundered textiles to hotels and hospitals.
Revenue for supply and laundering of workwear is recognised on a regular, periodic basis in accordance with the terms of the contract.
