Nomination Committee report NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder, On the following pages is set out the Nomination Committee Report for 2012.
The report comprises the following sections: t Committee overview t Activities during 2012 Sir Tim Wilson 6 March 2013 COMMITTEE OVERVIEW Composition The Committee is comprised entirely of Non-Executive Directors.
The current members are: t Sir Tim Wilson Chairman t Phil White t Stuart Beevor t Richard Walker t Manjit Wolstenholme t Andrew Jones At the invitation of the Committee, any other Director or other person may be invited to attend meetings of the Committee if considered desirable in assisting the Committee in fullling its role.
Role The role of the Committee is to: t Ensure that appropriate procedures are adopted and followed in the nomination, selection, training, evaluation and re-election of Directors and for succession planning, with due regard in all cases to the benets of diversity on the Board, including gender t Regularly review the structure, size, composition, skills and experience of the Board and to make recommendations with regard to any adjustments considered necessary t When it is agreed that an appointment to the Board should be made, to lead a selection process that is formal, rigorous and transparent t Be responsible for identifying, reviewing and recommending candidates for appointment to the Board.
ACTIVITIES IN 2012 The major activity of the Committee in 2012 was the selection of a candidate to replace Stuart Beevor who retires from the Board at the annual general meeting, as a Non-Executive Director.
Stuart has extensive knowledge of the contemporary real estate sector and, in order to maintain the balance of experience on the Board, it was considered appropriate to seek to recruit a replacement with similar experience.
Ordinarily, the Committee would appoint an external search consultancy to identify suitable potential Non-Executive candidates.
However, in this instance, given the extensive knowledge of the Board and its professional advisers in relation to the potential Non-Executive candidate base in the commercial real estate sector, it was agreed that efforts would, in the first instance, be made to identify a short list of potential candidates without recourse to an external search consultancy.
Those efforts were successful in producing a strong list of candidates and, following a series of meetings with potential non-executive directors, Andrew Jones was invited to join the Board, which he did on 1 February 2013.
Biographical details of Andrew Jones are set out on p. 41.
APPROVAL The Nomination Committee Report was approved by the Board on 6 March 2013 and signed on its behalf by Sir Tim Wilson.
64 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
