Other governance and statutory disclosures continued Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of the Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
As recommended by the Audit Committee, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit plc as auditor to the Company will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Annual general meeting The annual general meeting of the Company will be held at The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX at 9.30 a. m. on 16 May 2013.
Formal notice of the meeting is given on p. 108 to p. 111.
In addition to the ordinary business of the meeting, Resolution 15 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to grant the Directors authority to allot shares in the Company, and grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares of the Company, up to an aggregate of nominal value of 13,372,037 representing approximately one third of the issued share capital of the Company as at 6 March 2013.
In accordance with guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers, this resolution also grants the Directors authority to allot further equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 13,372,037, again representing approximately one third of the nominal value of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 6 March 2013.
This additional authority may only be applied to fully pre-emptive rights issues.
Resolution 16 will be proposed as a Special Resolution to authorise the Directors to allot equity securities for cash other than in accordance with statutory pre-emption rights which require a company to offer all allotments for cash first to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings, in respect of the allotment of shares in connection with any rights issue or other issue by way of rights and otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,005,805 representing approximately five per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at 6 March 2013.
The Board has no current intention of exercising either of the authorities conferred by the above resolutions.
Unless revoked, varied or extended, those authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company or the date following 15 months from the passing of the resolutions, whichever is the earlier.
The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations, increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot be less than 14 clear days.
At the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2012, shareholders authorised the calling of general meetings, other than an annual general meeting, on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Resolution 17 seeks the approval of shareholders to renew the authority to be able to call general meetings other than an annual general meeting, on 14 clear days notice.
The exibility offered by Resolution 17 will be used where, taking into account the circumstances, the Directors consider this appropriate in relation to the business of the meeting and in the interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole.
The Company undertakes to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Shareholders Rights Regulations before calling a general meeting on 14 clear days notice.
If given, the approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
By order of the Board A D Reid Secretary 6 March 2013 66 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
