Notes to the financial statements continued Section 5: Working capital continued 5.5 Transactions with other group companies During the year, the company entered into various interest free loans with its subsidiaries, the aggregate of which are disclosed in the cash flow statement.
In addition, the Company was charged by UNITE Integrated Solutions plc for corporate costs of 2.4 million 2011: 2.7 million.
As a result of these intercompany transactions, the following amounts were due to from the companys subsidiaries at the year end.
2012 2011 m m UNITE Holdings plc 74.6 76.5 LDC Holdings plc 246.9 241.2 Amounts due from group undertakings 321.5 317.7 Unilodge Holding Ltd 13.9 13.9 Unilodge Holdings UK Ltd 15.8 15.8 Amounts due to group undertakings 29.7 29.7 The Company has had a number of transactions with its joint ventures, which are disclosed in note 3.4c.
The Company has guaranteed 152 million of its subsidiary companies borrowings 2011: 235 million.
The guarantees have been entered into in the normal course of business.
A liability would only arise in the event of the subsidiary failing to fulfil its contractual obligations.
These guarantees are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 4.
104 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bu Busi sin ne ess ss Ot Oth he er r Ov Ove er rv viie ew w S St tra rat tegy egy Go Gov five ern rnan ance ce Fin Fina an nc cial ial re revie view w inf infor orma mation tion sta stat temen ements ts Section 6: Key management and employee benefits The Groups greatest resource is its staff and it works hard to develop and retain its people.
The remuneration policies in place are aimed to help recognise the contribution that UNITEs people make to the performance of the Group.
Over the next couple of pages you will find disclosures on wages and salaries and share option schemes which allow employees of the Group to take an equity interest in the Group.
6.1 Staff numbers and costs The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: Number of employees 2012 2011 Managerial and administrative 338 371 Site operatives 628 606 966 977 The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: 2012 2011 m m Wages and salaries 32.8 30.7 Social security costs 3.5 3.2 Pension costs 0.6 0.7 Fair value of share based payments 1.5 1.2 38.4 35.8 The wages and salaries costs include redundancy costs of 0.3 million 2011: 1.1 million.
Accounting policies The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
6.2 Key management personnel The Board considers that the key management personnel within the Group are those appointed to the Board.
As such, the remuneration of key management personnel is contained within the Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 63.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 105 Notes to the financial statements continued Section 6: Key management and employee benefits continued 6.3 Share based compensation A transaction is classified as a share based transaction where the Group receives services from employees and pays for these in shares or similar equity instruments.
The Group operates a number of share-based compensation schemes allowing employees to acquire shares in the Company.
a Share schemes The Group operates the following schemes: Executive share option scheme The Approved Scheme Details can be found in the Directors { Executive share option scheme The Unapproved Scheme Remuneration Report Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE Open to employees, vesting periods of three to five years, service condition Employee Share Ownership ESOT Used to award part of Directors and senior managers bonuses in shares, vest after three years continued service b Outstanding share options The table below summarises the movements in the number of share options outstanding for the Group and their average exercise price: Weighted average Number of options Weighted average Number of options exercise price thousands exercise price thousands 2012 2012 2011 2011 Outstanding at 1 January 0.85 2,375 1.92 875 Forfeited during the year 1.44 308 1.21 355 Exercised during the year 1.44 190 1.90 3 Granted during the year 0.35 1,843 0.41 1,858 Outstanding at 31 December 0.52 3,720 0.85 2,375 Exercisable at 31 December 2.22 256 1.92 439 For those options exercised in the year, the average share price during 2012 was 2.63 2011: 2.08.
For those options still outstanding, the range of exercise prices at the year end was 0p to 299p 2011: 0p to 344p and the weighted average remaining contractual life of these options was 0.3 years 2011: 0.9 years.
The Group funds the purchase of its own shares by the Employee Share Ownership Trust to meet the obligations of the LTIP and executive bonus scheme.
The purchases are shown as Own shares acquired in retained earnings.
The accounting is in accordance with the relevant standards.
No further information is given as the amounts for share based payments are immaterial.
106 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 O Ov ver ervie view w Str Strat ate eg gy y Busi Busin ne ess ss G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiinancial financial Ot Oth he er r re revie view w sta stat temen ements ts inf info or rm ma at tion ion Five year record 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Adjusted diluted net asset 350 318 295 265 306 value per share pence Net asset value per share pence 321 242 242 229 252 Adjusted net assets m 567 515 475 423 483 IFRS net assets m 516 388 388 366 320 Managed portfolio value m 2,688 2,502 2,334 2,039 1,829 Gearing adjusted % 80 84 71 92 131 including share of co investment funds % 114 126 1 15 133 174 on balance sheet % 92 122 96 1 15 180 Rental income from wholly owned assets m 79 64 64 58 58 including share of co investment funds % 111 96 89 82 78 Net portfolio contribution m 19 11 4 1 5 Adjusted profit 16 17 5 4 24 loss before tax m profit loss before tax m 126 524 35 116 Earnings per share adjusted pence 10 11 3 3 19 basic pence 78 112 26 92 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 107 Notice of annual general meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the annual general meeting of The UNITE Group plc the Company will be held at The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX at 9.30 a. m. on 16 May 2013 for the purpose of considering and, if thought t, passing the following resolutions which, in the case of resolutions numbered 1 to 15 inclusive, shall be proposed as ordinary resolutions and, in the case of resolutions numbered 16 and 17, shall be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive the audited annual accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012, together with the Directors Report and Auditors Report on those accounts and that section of the Remuneration Report subject to audit.
To confirm and declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 3p per ordinary share payable to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 19 April 2013.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2012.
To appoint Mr A Jones as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Mr P M White as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Mr M C Allan as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Mr J J Lister as a Director of the Company.
To appoint Mr R C Simpson as a Director of the Company.
To appoint Mr R S Smith as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Mrs M K Wolstenholme as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Mr R S Walker as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Sir Tim Wilson as a Director of the Company 13.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
That, in substitution for any equivalent authorities and powers granted to the Directors prior to the passing of this Resolution, the Directors be and are generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act : a to exercise all powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company, and grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares of the Company, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 13,372,037 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any allotments or grants made under paragraph b below in excess of 13,372,037: and further b to allot equity securities as dened by Section 560 1 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 26,744,074 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any allotments or grants made under paragraph a above in connection with an offer by way of rights issue: i in favour of holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of such holders are proportionate as nearly as practicable, to the respective number of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company held by them: and ii to holders of any other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors consider expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems under the laws in any territory or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever, provided that this authority shall expire unless renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting, on the date falling 15 months from the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company to be held following the passing of this Resolution, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require shares in the Company to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares be granted after such expiry and the Directors may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired.
108 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 O Ov ver ervie view w Str Strat ate eg gy y Busi Busin ne ess ss G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiinancial financial Ot Oth he er r re revie view w sta stat temen ements ts inf info or rm ma at tion ion 16.
THAT, in accordance with Section 570 1 of the Act, the Directors be and are empowered to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 1 of the Act pursuant to the general authority conferred on them by Resolution 15 above as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer or issue to or in favour of ordinary shareholders on the register on a date xed by the Directors where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all those shareholders are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on that date, but the Directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they consider expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems under the laws in any territory or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange: and b to the allotment other than under a above of equity securities having a nominal value not exceeding in aggregate 2,005,805. and this authority shall expire on the date falling 15 months from the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company to be held following the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may, before this authority expires, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after it expires and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired and provided further that this authority shall supersede and revoke all previous authorities under Section 570 1 of the Act.
That a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days' notice.
By order of the board A D Reid Secretary Dated 6 March 2013 Registered ofce: The Core 40 St Thomas Street Bristol BS1 6JX Notes 1.
A member of the Company who wishes to attend the meeting in person should arrive at the ofces of the Company, The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX in good time before the meeting, which will commence at 9.30 a. m. In order to gain admittance to the meeting, members may be required to produce their attendance card, which is attached to the form of proxy enclosed with this document, or otherwise prove their identity.
A member of the Company who is unable or does not wish to attend the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his her rights to attend and to speak and vote on his her behalf at the meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares so a member must have more than one share to be able to appoint more than one proxy.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting to represent his her appointing member.
Appointing a proxy will not prevent a member from attending in person and voting at the meeting.
A proxy must vote in accordance with any instructions given by the member by whom the proxy is appointed.
A form of proxy which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
You can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
To be valid, any form of proxy, and the original or duly certied copy of the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or authenticated, must be received by hand or by post at Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY, no later than 9.30 a. m. on 14 May 2013.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be a valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent CREST ID 3RA50 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in note 3 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 109 Notice of annual general meeting continued 6.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended.
If you would like to submit your proxy vote via the internet, you can do so by accessing our registrars website www.
You will require the control number, your unique PIN which will expire at the end of the voting period and your Shareholder Reference Number SRN, printed on the proxy card, in order to log in and submit your proxy vote electronically.
You can access this site from any internet enabled PC.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint holding the first-named being the most senior.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment in respect of the same shares, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
These rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Pursuant to Part 13 of the Companies Act 2006 and Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended, the Company species that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company at 5.00 p. m. two days before the meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Any changes to the register of members after such time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
As at 6 March 2013 the Companys issued share capital consists of 160,464,449 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company as at 6 March 2013 are 160,464,449.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of meeting or any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Members attending the meeting have the right to ask and, subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company must cause to be answered, any questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting.
The following information is available at www.
co. uk 1 the matters set out in this notice of annual general meeting: 2 the total numbers of shares in the Company in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting: 3 the totals of the voting rights that members are entitled to exercise at the meeting: and 4 members statements, members resolutions and members matters of business received by the Company after the date on which notice of the meeting was given.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under Section 527 of the Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the Company's accounts including the auditor's report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the annual general meeting: or b any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold ofce since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Company's auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
110 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 O Ov ver ervie view w Str Strat ate eg gy y Busi Busin ne ess ss G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiinancial financial Ot Oth he er r re revie view w sta stat temen ements ts inf info or rm ma at tion ion 19.
In accordance with Section 338 of the Act, a member or members of the Company may provided that the criteria set out in Section 338 3 of the Act are met require the Company to give to members notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting, provided that: a the resolution must not be, if passed, ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Company's constitution or otherwise : and b the resolution must not be defamatory of any person, frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must be authenticated by the person or persons making it, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given and must be received by the Company not later than 6 weeks before the meeting, or, if later, the time at which notice is given of the meeting.
In the foregoing sentence, the terms 'hard copy form', 'electronic form' and 'authenticated' bear their respective meanings set out in the Act in relation to a communication, or a document or information sent or supplied, to a company.
In accordance with Section 338A of the Act, a member or members of the Company may provided that the criteria set out in Section 338A 3 of the Act are met require the Company to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting a matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be included in the business of the meeting, provided that the matter is not defamatory of any person, frivolous or vexatious.
A request may be in hard copy form or electronic form, must identify the matter to be included in the business, must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated by the person or persons making it and must be received by the Company not later than 6 weeks before the meeting, or, if later, the time at which notice is given of the AGM.
In the foregoing sentence, the terms 'hard copy form', 'electronic form' and 'authenticated' bear the respective meanings set out in the Act in relation to a communication, or a document or information sent or supplied, to a company.
A member that is a company or other organisation not having a physical presence cannot attend in person but can appoint someone to represent it.
This can be done in one of two ways: either by the appointment of a proxy as described in the notes above or of a corporate representative.
Members considering the appointment of a corporate representative should check their own legal position, the Company's articles of association and the relevant provisions of the Act.
The following documents are available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company during the usual business hours on any weekday Saturday, Sunday or public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the annual general meeting and will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 9.15 a. m. on the day of the meeting until its conclusion: a copies of the executive directors' service contracts with the Company and any of its subsidiary undertakings: and b and letters of appointment of the non-executive directors.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 111 Glossary Adjusted earnings per share right of first refusal over UNITEs London The Groups share of this gross income The diluted earnings per share based development projects until such time as is shown in note 2.1 a. on adjusted profit.
its capital investment targets are met.
Total returns Adjusted, fully diluted net asset value Minimum net worth The total return to shareholders calculated per share Adjusted NAV Minimum net worth covenant measures by the growth in adjusted NAV plus interim The basic NAV per share gure is the value of the Company against an and declared final dividends.
recalculated to take account of dilutive absolute target.
UCC outstanding share options and adjusted to: Net Initial Yield NIY or Yield UNITE Capital Cities was established in t Exclude the impact of deferred tax The net operating income generated 2005 as a joint venture between UNITE t Exclude the mark to market of interest by a property expressed as a percentage and GIC Real Estate.
In 2012 we extended rate swaps of its value.
the maturity of this JV to September 2022 t Include the valuation gain not recognised alongside the formation of LSAV.
Net operating income NOI on properties held at cost.
The rental income from rental properties USAF the Fund Adjusted gearing less those operating costs directly related The UNITE UK Student Accommodation Adjusted net debt as a percentage to the property, therefore excluding Fund USAF is Europes largest fund that of adjusted net assets.
purely focuses on direct let student accommodation investment assets.
Adjusted net debt Net portfolio contribution NPC The Fund is an open-ended innite life The Groups debt, net of cash and This is an important indicator of operational vehicle which has unique buying access unamortised debt raising costs, excluding performance as it measures the income from to UNITEs portfolio.
UNITE act as Fund the mark to market of interest rates swaps.
the rental properties, net of their nancing Manager of the Fund, as well as owning costs and the Groups total non-development Adjusted net debt to property assets a significant minority stake.
The adjusted net debt as a percentage USV of the value of UNITE properties.
Net rental growth UNITE Student Village was established The annual growth in net operating income Adjusted profit in 2004 as a joint venture between UNITE less costs from a property measured on Adjusted profit is prepared on the basis and Lehman Brothers to develop large a like-for-like basis, ie, excluding impact recommended for real estate companies student village schemes of c1,000 bed of completion and disposals.
by EPRA, the European Public Real Estate spaces.
UNITE acquired the USV stake Association.
This excludes movements in the one remaining operation asset Non-core assets relating to changes in values of investment from Lehman Brothers in January 2012.
Properties which do not t with the Groups properties and interest rate swaps and the long-term investment strategy, either because UNITE letting arrangements related tax effects.
of their location or because they are let to Direct let Universities under long-term agreements.
Basis points bps Properties where short-hold tenancy A basis point is a term used to describe agreements are made directly between OCB a small percentage, usually in the context the commercial operator and the student.
UNITE successfully established a joint of a change, and equates to 0.01%.
venture with Oasis Capital Bank OCB in Lease August 2009.
The joint venture consists of Financing costs Properties which are leased to Universities three assets located in London, all of which Gross nancing costs net of interest for a number of years and have no UNITE were completed in 2010. capitalised into developments and interest management presence.
Rental properties Nominations Investment and completed properties whose Gross nancing costs Properties where short-hold tenancy construction has been completed and are This includes all interest paid by the Group, agreements are made with students, used by the Operations segment to including those capitalised into developments with the University providing a longer term generation Net Portfolio Contribution and operating lease rentals.
It includes all occupancy guarantee in respect of a receipts and payments under interest rate significant proportion of rooms.
Stabilising assets swaps whether they are effective or Properties that have recently been developed Sale and lease back ineffective under IFRS as economically and are not yet generating their optimal net Properties which have been sold to a third they all hedge interest rate exposures.
party investor then leased back to the Interest cover ratio ICR Company.
UNITE are responsible for the Total income from managed portfolio The interest cover ratio is the income management of these assets on behalf This measure indicates the overall scale of generated by a property as a multiple of the owner.
the property portfolio that the Group of the interest charge on the debt secured manages.
It comprises rental and related on the property.
income, totalling 240.2 million from properties owned by: LSAV The London Student Accommodation Joint m Venture LSAV is a new joint venture The Group 79.2 between UNITE and GIC, alongside UCC.
Third parties 0.2 Both UNITE and GIC have a 50% stake USAF 115.2 and LSAV has the same maturity date as LSAV 0.5 UCC September 2022.
It is the primary UCC 31.5 vehicle through which UNITE undertakes USV 0.3 development activity in London and it has Pre Acquisition OCB 13.3 112 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Company information Registered ofce The Core 40 St Thomas Street Bristol BS1 6JX Registered number in England 3199160 Company Secretary Andrew Reid Auditors KPMG Audit Plc 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL Financial Advisors JP Morgan Cazenove 25 Bank Street London E14 5JP Numis Securities The London Stock Exchange Building 10 Paternoster Square London EC4M 7LT Registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82 The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Financial PR Consultants FTI Consulting Holborn Gate 26 Southampton Buildings London WC2A 1PB Designed by luminous.
co. uk The UNITE Group plc The Core 40 St Thomas Street Bristol BS1 6JX Tel: 0117 302 7000 Fax: 0117 302 7400 info@unite-group.
