Overview Strategy Business Governance Financial Other review statements information Other governance and statutory disclosures Principal activities The principal activities of the Group during the year were the development and management of student residential accommodation in the United Kingdom.
Details of the Company and its principal subsidiaries are set out on p. 94.
Substantial shareholdings As at 6 March 2013 the Company had received notications from the following companies and institutions of the voting interests of themselves and their clients in 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Percentage of Shareholder Share Capital FMR LLL 9.7 Old Mutual Asset Management Limited 5.3 JP Morgan Asset Management Holdings Inc 4.9 APG Algemene Pensioen Groep NV 4.9 Perennial Investment Partners Australia Limited 4.8 Royal London Asset Management Limited 4.3 FIL Limited 3.7 Orange European Property Fund NV 3.6 Allianz SE 3.2 Share Capital At the date of this report, there are 160, 464, 449 ordinary shares of 25p each in issue, all of which are fully paid-up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
During the year, a total of 18,937 ordinary shares of 25p each were allotted and issued pursuant to the exercise of options under The UNITE Group plc Savings Related Share Option Scheme 5,976 at a price of 138.5p per share, 5,615 at a price of 162p per share, 1,013 at a price of 189.5p per share and 6,333 at a price of 221.5p per share.
In addition, 8,255 ordinary shares of 25p each were allotted and issued pursuant to the exercise of options under the Approved Scheme at a price of 129p per share and 162,790 ordinary shares of 25p each were allotted and issued pursuant to the exercise of options under the Unapproved Scheme, again at price of 129p per share.
The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, as well as the powers of the Companys Directors, are set out in the Companys articles of association.
There are no restrictions on the transfer or voting rights of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than those which may be imposed by law from time to time or as set out in the Companys articles of association.
In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, certain employees are required to seek approval to deal in the Companys shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfers of securities and or voting rights.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary, the Companys articles of association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Change of control All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding rewards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
Other than certain of the Groups banking facilities, there are no other significant agreements to which the Company is a party that affect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Nor are there any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Purchase of own shares The Directors have no authority to buy-back the Companys shares.
Details of proposals to be put to the annual general meeting in relation to the power of Directors to issue shares in the Company are set out under the heading 'annual general meeting'.
Creditor payment policy During the year, the Company maintained its policy of agreeing and abiding by supplier payment terms.
The Group has not followed any recognised code for payment practice.
As at 31 December 2012, the Groups trade creditors were equivalent to 13 days purchases 2011: 31 days.
The Company does not have any trade creditors 2011: Nil.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65
