Trading & Financial Review BERKELEYS PRINCIPAL OPERATING RISKS Risk Descriptions Mitigation ECONOMIC CONDITIONS As a property developer Berkeleys Berkeleys business strategy reects the cyclical nature of property development.
business, in the context of the wider Funds are carefully targeted at investing only in land which is underpinned by demand Housing Market, is sensitive to changes fundamentals that support a solid viability case even when markets are uncertain.
in interest rates, unemployment and Levels of committed expenditure are carefully monitored against sales secured and bank general consumer confidence.
facilities available, with the objective of keeping financial risk low to mitigate the significant economic uncertainty exists in operating risks of delivery in uncertain markets.
the UK, Europe and worldwide and this The business is committed to operating at an optimal size, with a strong balance sheet, may lead to a reduction in demand for to maintain the exibility to react swiftly, when necessary, to changes in market conditions.
housing which could impact on the Groups ability to deliver its corporate strategy.
REGULATION Adverse changes to government policy The effects of changes to government policies at all levels are closely monitored and on areas such as taxation, housing and representations made where necessary.
environmental matters could restrict the Berkeleys experienced teams are well-placed to interpret and implement new regulation ability of the Group to deliver its strategy.
at the appropriate time through direct lines of communication across the Group.
Failure to comply with laws and regulations Detailed policies and procedures are in place and these are communicated to all staff.
could expose the Group to penalties and reputational damage.
PLANNING Delays or refusals in obtaining Full detailed planning and risk assessments are performed and monitored for each site commercially viable planning permissions without planning permission, both before and after purchase.
on the Groups land holdings could result The planning status of all sites is reviewed at monthly divisional Board meetings and in the Group being unable to develop bi-monthly Main Board meetings.
the land it has purchased.
The Group works closely with local communities in respect of planning proposals and This could have a direct impact on the strong local relationships are maintained with local authorities and planning ofcers.
Groups ability to deliver its product The Group is focused on the markets of London and the South East of England in and on its profitability.
planning regimes which it understands and where it believes it therefore has a competitive advantage.
PEOPLE An inability to attract, develop, motivate Remuneration packages are constantly benchmarked against the industry to ensure they and retain talented employees could have remain competitive.
an impact on the Groups ability to deliver Succession planning is regularly reviewed at both divisional and Main Board level.
Close relationships and dialogue are maintained with key personnel.
Failure to consider the retention and succession of key management could result in a loss of knowledge and competitive advantage.
SALES An inability to match supply to demand in Detailed market demand assessments of each site are undertaken before acquisition, terms of product, location and price could and regularly during delivery of each scheme, to ensure that supply is matched to result in missed sales targets and or demand in each location.
inefficient levels of completed stock which Design, product type and product quality are all assessed on a site-by-site basis to in turn could impact on the Groups ability ensure that they meet the target market and customer aspirations in that location.
to deliver its corporate strategy.
The Group has a diverse range of developments with homes available at a broad range of property prices to appeal to a wide market.
Forward sales are used to take the risk out of the development cycle where possible, thereby justifying the financial investment in each of the Groups sites.
Completed stock levels are reviewed and debated at monthly divisional Board meetings and bi-monthly Main Board meetings.
MORTGAGE AVAILABILITY Mortgage providers have been negatively Berkeley has a broad product mix and customer base which reduces the reliance on impacted by the financial crisis and this has mortgage availability across its portfolio.
reduced their ability to provide mortgages The Group is participating in the government-backed mortgage indemnity scheme, to potential purchasers.
NewBuy, on a number of its schemes.
An inability of customers to secure sufficient Deposits are taken on all sales to mitigate the financial impact on the Group in the mortgage finance could have a direct impact event that sales do not complete due to a lack of mortgage availability.
on the Groups transaction levels.
80 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Trading & Financial Review Trading & Financial Review Risk Descriptions Mitigation SUSTAINABILITY Berkeley is hugely aware of the Vision2020 provides the framework under which the Groups approach to environmental impact of the homes and running a sustainable business is formalised.
This provides a series of communities that it builds, both during the over-arching areas of focus along with detailed commitments to be adopted construction phase and on occupation by and embraced by all staff.
A Board level Sustainability and Health & Safety Governance Committee has Failure to address sustainability issues the responsibility of setting the Groups direction in this area, to ensure that it could affect the Groups ability to acquire is aligned with the Groups strategy.
land, gain planning permission, manage Specic commitments to deliver sustainable communities, minimise the sites effectively and respond to increasing impact of the homes that Berkeley builds and to manage the environmental customer demand for sustainable homes.
impacts of Berkeleys business form the bedrock of this approach.
Sustainability assessments are built into land purchases and planning applications.
Sustainability commitments during delivery include the use of environmental performance methodology, a focus on browneld development and the monitoring of carbon emissions, amongst others.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Berkeleys operations have a direct impact A Board level Sustainability Health and Safety Governance Committee has on the Health and Safety of its people, the responsibility of setting the Groups Health and Safety strategy.
contractors and members of the public.
Dedicated Health & Safety teams are in place in each division and at Head Berkeley considers this to be an area of Ofce.
Procedures, training and reporting are all regularly reviewed to ensure critical importance.
high standards are maintained, and comprehensive accident investigation A lack of adequate procedures and systems procedures are in place.
to reduce the dangers inherent in the The Group has implemented a number of initiatives to improve Health and construction process increases the risk of Safety standards on site, with workshops held with contractors during the year.
accidents or site related catastrophes, Vision2020 incorporates commitments in the area of Health & Safety which including re and ood, which could result reinforce the Groups focus on this.
in serious injury or loss of life leading to reputational damage, financial penalties Adequate insurance is held to cover the risks inherent in large-scale and disruption to operations.
LAND AVAILABILITY An inability to source suitable land to Berkeleys strategy is to acquire land opportunistically, where it meets its maintain the Groups land bank at internal criteria for purchase.
appropriate margins in a highly competitive Land acquisition is focused on Berkeleys core markets of London and the market could impact on the Groups South East, markets which it understands and where it believes that the ability to deliver its corporate strategy.
Each land acquisition is subject to formal internal appraisal and approval processes both prior to the submission of a bid and again prior to exchange of contracts.
The Group maintains a land bank to mitigate against significant impacts from market changes or delayed build activity.
Berkeley has experienced land teams with strong market knowledge in its areas of focus.
BUILD COST AND PROGRAMME Build costs are affected by the availability of A procurement and programming strategy for each development is agreed skilled labour and the price and availability by the divisional Board before site acquisition.
Changes to these prices and A further assessment of procurement and programming is undertaken and availability could impact on the profitability agreed by the divisional Board prior to the commencement of construction.
Build cost reconciliations and build programme dates are presented and reviewed in detail at divisional cost review meetings each month.
PRODUCT QUALITY Berkeley has a reputation for the high Detailed reviews are undertaken of the product on each scheme both during standards of quality of its product.
the acquisition of the site and throughout the build process to ensure that If the Group fails to deliver against the quality of the product is maintained.
these standards, it could be exposed Customer Satisfaction surveys are undertaken on the handover of all private to reputational damage, as well as apartments, and feedback incorporated in shaping the specication and reduced sales and increased cost.
Berkeley Annual Report 2012 81 Governance GOVERNANCE BERKELEYS STRATEGY IS DEDICATED TO DELIVERING ITS LONG-TERM CORPORATE OBJECTIVES.
82 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Governance Governance Berkeley Annual Report 2012 83 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHAIRMAN AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CURRENT COMMITTEE COMPOSITION Nomination Committee A W Pidgley Chairman D Howell J Armitt V Wadley Audit Committee D Howell Chairman A C Coppin TONY PIDGLEY ROB PERRINS NICK SIMPKIN A Nimmo BSC HONS ACA ACA Co-founder of the Company Joined the Company in 1994 Joined Berkeley in 2002 and has Remuneration Committee in 1976 with Jim Farrer.
having qualied as a chartered held a number of senior finance A C Coppin Chairman He was appointed Group accountant with Ernst & Young positions including Finance J Armitt Chairman on 9 September in 1991.
He was appointed to Director of St James and Head G Barker 2009, having previously been the Group Main Board on 1 May of Finance for Berkeley Group.
the Group Managing Director 2001 on becoming Managing He joined the Board and Company Secretary since the formation of the Director of Berkeley Homes plc.
became Group Finance Director Group in 1976.
He is Chairman He became Group Finance on 10 September 2009.
A M Bradshaw of the Nomination Committee.
Director on 2 November 2001, moving to his current role as Honorary Life President Group Managing Director on Jim Farrer MRICS, along 9 September 2009. with Tony Pidgley a co-founder of Berkeley, he was Group Chairman until his retirement in 1992.
At that time he was appointed Honorary Life President.
KARL WHITEMAN SEAN ELLIS GREG FRY ACA Joined Berkeley in 1996 as Joined Berkeley in 2004 Joined the Group in 1982 and is a Construction Director and with an expertise in land currently Chairman of St George currently leads the largest and is currently Chairman PLC, having been a Director Berkeley Homes division and of St James Group.
He joined since its inception in 1986.
He chairs the Groups Sustainability the Group Main Board on was reappointed to the Group and Health & Safety Working 9 September 2010 as a Main Board on 5 September Groups.
He joined the Board Divisional Executive Director.
2011 as a Divisional Executive on 10 September 2009 as a Director, having previously been Divisional Executive Director.
a member of the Group Main Board from 1 May 1996 to 22 July 2010.
84 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Governance Governance NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SIR JOHN ARMITT VICTORIA MITCHELL DAVID HOWELL ALAN COPPIN Appointed a Non-executive Appointed a Non-executive Appointed a Non-executive Appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 October 2007.
Director on 1 May 2002 and Director and Chairman of the Director on 1 September 2006.
He is currently Chairman of the became Group Chairman on Audit Committee on 25 February He is currently a Non-executive Olympic Delivery Authority and 1 August 2007, moving to her 2004.
Previously a Main Board Director of Marshalls plc and was Chairman of the Engineering current role as Deputy Chairman Director of lastminute.
com plc, a member of both the Royal and Physical Science Research on 9 September 2009.
Currently Group Finance Director of First Air Force Board Standing Council until 31 March 2012. a Consultant Director of Savills Choice Holidays plc, Executive Committee and Air Command From 2001 to 2007 he was Chief L and P Limited, she was Chairman of Western and formerly Strike Command.
Executive of Network Rail and its previously an Executive Director Oriental plc, Chairman of EBTM Previously Hon.
Sir John is of Savills plc.
She is currently a plc Everything but the Music The Princes Foundation for the Senior Independent Director, Non-executive Director of Pam and a Non-executive Director the Built Environment and Chairman of the Groups Golding International Pty, of Nestor Healthcare Group a Non-executive Director at Sustainability and Health & Development Securities plc, plc, David is currently a Capital and Regional plc and Safety Committee and is a Lennox Investment Management Non-executive Director of two Carillion plc, Alan is Chairman member of the Remuneration LLP and London First.
David is of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
stand down from the Board at also a member of the Committee and a member the AGM on 5 September 2012.
ALISON NIMMO VERONICA WADLEY GLYN BARKER BSC HONS FCA Appointed a Non-executive Appointed a Non-executive Appointed a Non-executive Director on 5 September Director on 3 January 2012.
Alison is currently She is currently Chair of the following a 35 year career with Chief Executive of The Crown Arts Council, London and PwC, most recently as its UK Vice Estate and she was previously a National Council member Chairman.
He previously held responsible for delivering many of Arts Council England.
a number of senior posts within of the London 2012 Olympic Previously Editor of The PwC including Managing and Paralympic venues as Evening Standard, she is also Partner and Head of Assurance Director of Regeneration and an Independent Director of and also established and Design at the Olympic Delivery Times Newspapers Holdings.
ran their Transactions Services Authority.
She is a member of She is a member of the business.
Glyn is a Non-executive the Audit, Sustainability and Nomination Committee.
Director of Aviva plc and Health & Safety Committees.
Transocean Limited, Chairman Designate of the Law Firm Irwin Mitchell and a Director of the English National Opera Company.
He is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
