130 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Portfolio valuation an explanation The Groups valuation policy is theresponsibility of the Board, withadditional oversight from theBoardsValuations Committee.
Thissection sets out our valuation policy in detail and explains how wevalue investments in each of ourbusiness lines.
Policy Private Equity valuation Our policy is to value 3is investment portfolio at fair value Determining enterprise value andachieve this by valuing individual investments on an appropriate basis using a consistent approach across the To arrive at the fair value of the Groups Private Equity portfolio.
The Groups valuation policy is the responsibility investments, we first estimate the entire value of the ofthe Board and is reviewed by the Boards Valuations companywe have invested in the enterprise value.
The policy ensures that the Thisenterprise value is determined using one of a portfolio valuation is compliant with the fair value guidelines  depending on the nature, under IFRS and, in so doing, is also compliant with the  of the investment.
guidelines issued by the International Private Equity and Where possible, we use methodologies which draw Venture Capital valuation board the IPEV guidelines.
heavilyonobservable market prices, whether listed equity Thepolicy covers the Groups Private Equity, Infrastructure markets or reported merger and acquisition transactions.
and Debt Management investment valuations.
The quoted assets in our portfolio are valued at their Fair value is the underlying principle and is defined as closingbid price on the balance sheet date.
theprice at which an orderly transaction would take The majority of the rest of our portfolio, however, is placebetween market participants at the reporting date represented by unquoted investments.
These are valued, IPEV guidelines, September 2009.
Fair value is therefore inthe vast majority of cases, with reference to market anestimate and, as such, determining fair value requires comparables, or to recent reported transactions.
 are not traded on an active market, as quoted investments are, the Group adjusts theestimated enterprise value by a marketability or liquiditydiscount.
The marketability or liquidity discount is applied to the total enterprise value and we apply a higher discount rate for investments where there are material restrictions on our ability to sell at a time of our choosing.
The table on page 132 outlines in more detail the range ofvaluation methodologies available to us, as well as the inputs and adjustments necessary for each.
Overview Strategy, Business Business review Risk Corporate Governance Financial statements Portfolio and other model and KPIs responsibility information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 131 Apportioning the enterprise value Assets classified as terminal If we believe an investment has more than a 50% probability between 3i, othershareholders and of failing in the 12 months following the valuation date, lenders we value the investment on the basis of its expected Once we have estimated the enterprise value using one recoverable amount in the event of failure.
It is important of the methodologies outlined in the table on page 132, to distinguish between our investment failing and the the following steps are taken: business failing: the failure of our investment does not 1.
We subtract the value of any claims, net of free cash always mean that the business has failed, just that our balances, that are more senior to the most senior of recoverable value has dropped significantly.
This would ourinvestments: generally result in the equity and loan components of our investment being valued at nil.
The resulting attributable enterprise value is apportioned to the Groups investment, and equal ranking investments Infrastructure valuation by other parties, according to contractual terms and conditions, to arrive at a fair value of the entirety of The primary valuation methodology used for infrastructure theinvestment.
The value is then distributed amongst investments is the discounted cash flow method DCF.
thedifferent loan, equity and other financial Fairvalue is estimated by deriving the present value of .
theinvestment using reasonable assumptions of expected future cash flows and the terminal value and date, and 3.
If the value attributed to a specific shareholder loan theappropriate risk-adjusted discount rate that quantifies investment in a company is less than its par or nominal therisk inherent to the investment.
The discount rate is value, a shortfall is implied, which is recognised in our estimated with reference to the market risk-free rate, a risk valuation.
In exceptional cases, we may judge that the adjusted premium and information specific to the investment shortfall is temporary: to recognise the shortfall in such or market sector.
ascenario would lead to unrepresentative volatility and hence we may choose not to recognise the shortfall.
Currently, the Groups investment in the Infrastructure business line predominantly consists of the investment Other factors inthequoted vehicle, 3i Infrastructure plc, and the unquotedportfolio in the 3i India Infrastructure Fund.
In applying this framework, there are additional Thesevehicles use DCF as the primary method of valuing considerations that are factored into the valuation their underlying portfolio.
Debt Management valuation Impacts from structuring Structural rights are instruments convertible into equity or The Groups Debt Management business line typically cash at specific points in time or linked to specific events.
investsin traded debt instruments and the subordinated Forexample, where a majority shareholder chooses to sell, notes that it is required to hold in the debt funds which it and we have a minority interest, we may have the right to a manages.
The traded debt instruments are valued using minimum return on our investment.
anaverage of broker quotes available, reflecting the best available market observable data.
Debt instruments, in particular, may have structural rights.
Inthe valuation, it is assumed third parties, such as lenders The subordinated notes that it is required to hold in the debt orholders of convertible instruments, fully exercise any funds are also valued using average broker quotes in the first rights they might have, and that the value to the Group may instance.
Where broker quotes are unavailable or deemed therefore be reduced by such rights held by third parties.
unreliable, ie in the absence of an orderly market or where TheGroups own rights are valued on the basis they are transactions take place in a market where the motivations of exercisable on the reporting date.
buyers and sellers is not fully transparent, then the net asset value of the fund can be used to determine the valuation of the equity investment.
132 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Portfolio valuation an explanation % of portfolio valued on Methodology Description Inputs Adjustments this basis Earnings Most commonly used Private Earnings multiples are applied to the earnings of the company A marketability or 67% Private Equity Equity valuation methodology to determine the enterprise value liquiditydiscount is Used for investments which applied to the enterprise Earnings are profitable and for which value, typically between Reported earnings adjusted for non-recurring items, such we can determine a set 5% and 15%, using factors as restructuring expenses, and for significant corporate oflisted companies and such as our alignment actions, to arrive at maintainable earnings precedent transactions, with management and Most common measure is earnings before interest, tax, where relevant, with other investors and our depreciation and amortisation EBITDA  investment rights in Earnings used are usually the management accounts for thedeal structure the 12 months to the quarter end preceding the reporting period, unless data from forecasts or the latest audited accounts provides a more reliable picture of maintainable earnings Earnings multiples The earnings multiple is derived from comparable listed companies or relevant market transaction multiples We select companies in the same industry, where possible, with a similar business model and profile interms of size, products, services and customers, growth rates and, where possible, in the same geographic region We track the multiple paid at our initial investment against this set of comparable companies, taking intoaccount a relative premium or discount where the underlying risk and earnings growth rate support that relative ranking We adjust for changes in the relative performance inthe set of comparables Quoted Used for investments Closing bid price at balance sheet date No adjustments or 17% Infrastructure inlistedcompanies discounts applied Private Equity Imminent sale Used where an asset is in Contracted proceeds for the transaction, or best estimate A discount of typically 1% Infrastructure asales process, a price ofthe expected proceeds 2.5% is applied to reflect Private Equity hasbeen agreed but the any uncertain adjustments transaction has not yet settled to expected proceeds Fund Used for investments Net asset value reported by the fund manager Typically no further 1% Infrastructure inunlisted funds discount applied in Private Equity Debt addition to that applied Management bythe fund manager Specific industry Used for investments in We create a set of comparable listed companies andderive An appropriate discount 5% metrics industries which have well the implied values of the relevant metric is applied, depending on Private Equity defined metrics as bases the valuation metric used We track and adjust this metric as in the case of an earnings forvaluation eg book value multiple forinsurance underwriters, orregulated asset bases Comparable companies are selected using the same criteria forutilities as described for the earnings methodology Discounted Appropriate for businesses with Long-term cash flows are discounted at a rate which Discount already implicit 8% CashFlow long-term stable cash flows, isbenchmarked against market data, where possible, in the discount rate Infrastructure typically in infrastructure oradjusted from the rate at the initial investment based on applied to long-term Private Equity changes in the risk profile of the investment cashflows no further discounts applied Broker quotes Used to value debt instruments Broker quotes obtained from banks which trade the specific No discount is applied 1% Debt Management instruments concerned Infrastructure Net assets Used for businesses that are Assets are valued at the best estimate of the proceeds in a A discount is applied to 0% Private Equity loss making, or where the liquidation scenario reflect the uncertainty probability of liquidation is high over the ultimate outcome Other Used where elements of a Values of separate elements prepared on one of the No further discount 2% Private Equity business are valued on methodologies listed above isapplied different bases For a small proportion of our smaller investments less than 3% of the portfolio, the valuation is determined by a more mechanical approach using information from the latest audited accounts.
Equity shares are valued at the higher of an earnings or net assets methodology.
Fixed income shares and loan investments are measured using amortised cost and any implied impairment, in line with IFRS.
Consistent with IPEV guidelines, all equity investments are held at fair value using the most appropriate methodology and no investments are held at historical cost.
