Financials and otherinformation 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 79 Investment policy The Company aims to build a diversied portfolio of equity For most investments, the Company seeks to obtain representation investments in entities owning infrastructure businesses and assets.
on the board of directors of the investee company or equivalent The Company seeks investment opportunities globally, but with a governing body and in cases where it acquires a majority equity focus on Europe, North America and Asia.
interest in a business, that interest may also be a controlling interest.
The Companys equity investments will often comprise share capital No investment made by the Company will represent more than 20% and related shareholder loans or other financial instruments that of the Companys gross assets, including cash holdings, at the time are not shares but that, in combination with shares, are similar in of the making of the investment.
It is expected that most individual substance.
The Company may also invest in junior or mezzanine investments will exceed 50 million.
In some cases, the total amount debt in infrastructure businesses or assets.
required for an individual transaction may exceed the maximum amount that the Company is permitted to commit to a single Most of the Companys investments are in unquoted companies.
In such circumstances, the Company may consider However, the Company may also invest in entities owning entering into co-investment arrangements with 3i Group or other infrastructure businesses and assets whose shares or other investors who may also be significant shareholders, pursuant to instruments are listed on any stock exchange, irrespective of whether which 3i Group and its subsidiaries or such other investors may they cease to be listed after completion of the investment, if the co-invest on the same financial and economic terms as the Company.
Directors judge that such an investment is consistent with the The suitability of any such co-investment arrangements will be Companys investment objectives.
The Company will, in any case, assessed on a  basis and would be subject invest no more than 15% of its total gross assets in other investment to both Board and, where applicable, 3i Group and its subsidiaries companies or investment trusts which are listed on the Official List.
Depending on the size of the relevant investment and The Company may also consider investing in other fund structures the identity of the relevant co-investor, such a co-investment in the event that it considers, on receipt of advice from the arrangement may be subject to the related party transaction Investment Adviser, that that is the most appropriate and effective provisions contained in the Listing Rules and may therefore require means of investing, which may be advised or managed either by the shareholder consent.
Investment Adviser or a third party.
If the Company invests in another The Companys Articles require its outstanding borrowings, including fund advised or managed by 3i Group, the relevant proportion of any any financial guarantees to support subsequent obligations, to be advisory or management fees payable by the investee fund to 3i plc limited to 50% of the gross assets of the Group valuing investments will be deducted from the annual advisory fee payable under the on the basis included in the Groups accounts.
Investment Advisory Agreement and the relevant proportion of any performance fee will be deducted from the annual performance fee, In accordance with Listing Rules requirements, the Company will only if payable, under the Investment Advisory Agreement.
For the make a material change to its investment policy with the approval avoidance of doubt, there will be no similar set-off arrangement of shareholders.
where any such fund is advised or managed by a third party.
