80 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Portfolio valuation methodology A description of the methodology used to value the investment DCF portfolio of 3i Infrastructure and its subsidiaries the Group is DCF is the primary basis for valuation.
In using the DCF basis, fair set out below in order to provide more detailed information than is value is estimated by deriving the present value of the investment included within the accounting policies and the Investment Advisers using reasonable assumptions and estimation of expected future review for the valuation of the portfolio.
The methodology complies in cash ows and the terminal value and date, and the appropriate all material aspects with the International Private Equity and Venture risk-adjusted discount rate that quanties the risk inherent to the Capital valuation guidelines which are endorsed by the British investment.
The discount rate will be estimated for each investment Private Equity and Venture Capital Association and the European derived from the market risk-free rate, a risk-adjusted premium and Private Equity and Venture Capital Association.
information specic to the investment or market sector.
Basis of valuation LP share of fund net assets Investments are reported at the Directors estimate of fair value at the Where the Group has made investments into other infrastructure reporting date.
Fair value represents the amount for which an asset funds, the value of the investment will be derived from the could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties in an Groups share of net assets of the fund based on the most recent arms length transaction.
reliable financial information available from the fund.
Where the underlying investments within a fund are valued on a DCF basis, General the discount rate applied may be adjusted by the Company to reect its assessment of the most appropriate discount rate for the nature In estimating fair value, the Directors seek to use a methodology that of assets held in the fund.
is appropriate in light of the nature, facts and circumstances of the investment and its materiality in the context of the overall portfolio.
The methodology that is the most appropriate may consequently Sales basis include adjustments based on informed and experience-based The expected sale proceeds methodology will be used in cases where judgments, and will also consider the nature of the industry and offers have been received as part of an investment sales process.
Methodologies are applied consistently from period to period except where a change would result in a better estimation This may either support the value derived from another methodology of fair value.
Given the uncertainties inherent in estimating fair value, or may be used as the valuation.
A marketability discount is applied a degree of caution is applied in exercising judgments and making to the expected sale proceeds to derive the valuation where necessary estimates.
Quoted investments Cost less fair value adjustment Quoted equity investments are valued at closing bid price at the Any investment in a company that has failed or, in the view of reporting date.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting the Board, is expected to fail within the next 12 months, has the Standards, no discount is applied for liquidity of the stock or any equity shares valued at nil and the xed income shares and loan dealing restrictions.
instruments valued at the lower of cost and net recoverable amount.
Quoted debt investments will be valued using quoted prices provided by third-party broker information where reliable or will be held at cost less fair value adjustments.
Unquoted investments Unquoted investments are valued using one of the following methodologies: Discounted Cash Flow DCF Limited Partnership share of fund net assets Sales basis: expected sales proceeds Cost less any fair value adjustments required Information for shareholders Financial calendar Warning to shareholders Ex-dividend date for final dividend 20 June 2012 boilerroomscams Record date 22 June 2012 Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, Annual General Meeting 10 July 2012 or an inated price for shares they own.
These calls come from Final dividend expected to be paid 13 July 2012 fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are mostly based abroad.
Half-yearly results November 2012 While high profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
The Financial Services Authority FSA has found most share fraud Registrars victims are experienced investors who lose an average of 20,000, For shareholder services, including notifying changes of address, witharound 200m lost in the UK each year.
the registrar details are as follows: Protect yourself Capita Registrars Jersey Limited If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, 12 Castle Street a premium price for shares you own, or free company or research St. Helier reports, you should take these steps before handing over any money: Jersey JE2 3RT 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you.
Channel Islands e-mail: registrars@capita.
Check the FSA Register at www.
uk fsaregister to ensure Telephone: 44 0 1534 632310 or the theyare authorised.
Use the details on the FSA Register to contact the rm.
Call the FSA Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234 if there are no contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
For full up-to-date investor relations information including the latest share price, recent reports, results presentations and financial news, 5.
Search our list of unauthorised rms and individuals to avoid doing please visit our investor relations website www.
If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications electronically 6.
Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
in future, including your annual and half-yearly reports and notices of If you use an unauthorised rm to buy or sell shares or other meetings, please go to investments, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman www.
com e-comms Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things for details of how to register.
Frequently used registrars forms may be found on our website at Report a scam www.
com e-comms If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FSA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you 3i Infrastructure plc can nd out about the latest investment scams.
You can also call the Registered office: Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234.
22 Grenville Street St. Helier Jersey JE4 8PX Channel Islands Tel: 44 0 1534 711 444 Fax: 44 0 1534 609 333 Registered in Jersey No.
95682 Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Printed by Pureprint Group who are a CarbonNeutral printer certied to ISO 14001 environmental management systemand registered to EMAS the EcoManagement AuditScheme.
Printed using vegetableoil based inks.
The report is printed on Amadeus 50% Silk which is FSCcertied and contains 50% recycled waste and 50%virgin bre.
FSC Forest Stewardship Council This ensures that there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the nished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management system against which an organisation can be accredited by a third party.
3i Infrastructure plc 22 Grenville Street, St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands JE4 8PX Telephone 44 0 1534 711 444 Fax 44 0 1534 609 333 www.
com M72212 Annual report online To receive shareholder communications electronically in future, including your annual and half-yearly reports and notices of meetings, please go to: www.
com e-comms for details of how to register
