62 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 significant accounting policies 3i Infrastructure plc the Company is a company incorporated in  are significant to the consolidated financial Jersey, Channel Islands.
The consolidated financial statements for statements include: theyear to 31 March 2012 comprise the financial statements of the i Valuation of the investment portfolio The majority of assets in Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
theinvestment portfolio are valued on a discounted cash ow basis The Companies Jersey Law 1991 does not require the directors which requires assumptions to be made regarding future cash ows ofacompany to present separate financial statements where and the discount rate to be applied to these cash ows.
Refer to Note consolidated financial statements are presented and therefore 8 and Note 10 for further details of the sensitivity of the carrying thenancial results and position of the Company are not presented value of these investments to the assumptions that have been made.
intheconsolidated financial statements of the Group.
ii Assessment for impairment The Group must make certain The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors estimates regarding the recoverability of loans and receivables when on 8 May 2012. assessing whether these financial assets meet the criteria for impairment against the current carrying value.
Refer to Note 2 and Statement of compliance Note 8 for further details of assessments made during theyear.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Standards issued but not yet effective International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and their interpretations as issued by the International As at 31 March 2012, the following new or amended standards had Accounting Standards Board.
been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
These financial statements have also been prepared in accordance In 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9, Financial Instruments Classication with and in compliance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991. and Measurement, with an expanded and amended version covering additional requirements for financial liabilities issued during 2010.
Basis of preparation The standard is effective prospectively for accounting periods commencing 1 January 2015 or later and is therefore not applicable The financial statements of the Group are presented in sterling, the for the current accounting period.
On adoption, IFRS 9 will require functional currency of the Company and the Group, rounded to the theGroup to review the classication of certain financial instruments nearest hundred thousand pounds 0.1 million except where while allowing the Group to retain the fair value measurement otherwise indicated.
The Group is in the process of assessing the full impact The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS ofthese requirements.
requires the Board to make judgments, estimates and assumptions During 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets Statements, IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12, Disclosure and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated ofInterests in Other Entities, IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement.
assumptions are based on experience and other factors that are Eachofthese standards is applicable for periods commencing believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of onorafter 1 January 2013. which form the basis to determine carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual On adoption, of IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12, the Group will be results may differ from these estimates.
required to review the entities that it classies as subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, and the related disclosures required in The presentation of the financial statements has changed from the respect of each of these types of investments.
The Directors of the prior year as, in compliance with Jersey law, the financial results Company are currently assessing the changes required to the andposition of the Company have not been disclosed.
presentation of the Groups financial statements and disclosures.
The following amendments to the standards below are not expected Key estimates and judgments to have a significant impact on the Group once they become effective: The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS IAS 27, Separate Financial Statements effective for accounting requires the Directors to exercise judgment in the process of applying periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013 and IAS 28, the accounting policies dened below.
The following policies are Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures effective for areas where a higher degree of judgment has been applied in the accounting periods commencing on or after 1 July 2012. preparation of the financial statements.
IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements applicable for accounting i Basis of consolidation The Group holds significant stakes in periods commencing on or after 1 July 2012 and IAS 19, Employee themajority of its investee companies.
The Group must exercise Benets applicable for accounting periods commencing on or after judgment in the level of control of the underlying investee company 1 January 2013. that is obtained and consider the need to classify certain investee companies as associates, joint ventures or subsidiary undertakings.
IFRS 1, First Time Adoption of IFRS applicable prospectively for accounting periods commencing on 1 July 2011. ii Functional currency The Group has certain subsidiaries that conduct the majority of their business operations in currencies other IFRS 7, Financial Instruments Disclosures applicable prospectively than sterling.
Judgment has been exercised in determining the for accounting periods commencing on 1 July 2011. appropriate functional currency of these subsidiary undertakings.
IAS 12, Income Taxes applicable prospectively for accounting periods The adoption of certain accounting policies by the Group also requires commencing on 1 January 2012. the use of certain critical accounting estimates in determining the information to be disclosed in the financial statements.
Financials and otherinformation 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 63 v Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests reect the Interpretations issued but not yet effective proportion of the capital of subsidiary undertakings of the Group that The following new and amended interpretation has been issued is not held by entities within the Group.
The proportion of the net by International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee.
assets and profit of the Group that is attributable to non-controlling The following interpretation is not expected to have a significant interests is shown as a separate component within the statement of impact on the Group.
comprehensive income and the balance sheet.
Movements in the net assets attributable to non-controlling interests during the year arising IFRIC interpretation 20, Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of from investment activity, distributions payable to non-controlling aSurface Mine, was issued in 2011 but has not yet been endorsed interests or movements in the proportion of capital held by nonby the EU.
It is applicable prospectively for accounting periods controlling interests are shown directly in equity through the commencing 1 January 2013 or later, and is therefore not applicable statement of changes in equity.
for the current accounting period.
On adoption, it will not have any impact on the Companys financial reporting.
B Exchange differences A Basis of consolidation i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in currencies different from the functional currency of the subsidiary of the Group i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
entering into the transaction are translated at the exchange rate Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to denominated in currencies different to the functional currency of obtain benefit from its activities.
The financial results of subsidiaries each Group entity at the financial reporting date are translated to the are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign that control commences until the date that control ceases.
exchange differences arising on translation to the functional currency ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
significant inuence, but not control, over the financial and operating Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of policies.
Investments that are held as part of the Groups investment historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair value even though rate at the date of the transactions.
Non-monetary assets and the Group may have significant inuence over those companies.
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair This treatment is permitted by IAS 28, Investment in Associates, value are translated to the functional currency using exchange rates which allows investments held by venture capital organisations to ruling at the date the fair value was determined.
be excluded from its scope where those investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and ii Financial statements of non-sterling operations The assets accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value and liabilities of operations whose functional currency is not recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the period.
sterling, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, The Group has no interests in associates through which it carries are translated to sterling at exchange rates ruling at the financial outits business.
The revenues and expenses of these operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates iii Joint ventures Interests in joint ventures that are held as part ruling at the date of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising of the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the balance sheet onretranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of at fair value.
This treatment is permitted by IAS 31 Interests in Joint equity, the translation reserve, and are released upon disposal of Ventures, which allows interests held by venture capital organisations thenon-sterling operation.
to be excluded from its scope where those investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in C Investment portfolio fair value recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in i Recognition and measurement Investments are recognised and the period.
The Group has no interests in joint ventures through which derecognised on a date where the purchase or sale of an investment it carries out its business.
is under a contract whose terms require the delivery or settlement of iv Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances, the investment.
The Group manages its investments with a view to and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising proting from the receipt of investment income and obtaining capital from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the appreciation from changes in the fair value of equity investments.
Therefore, all quoted investments and unquoted equity investments are designated as at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition and subsequently carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
Loan investments are classied as loans and receivables and subsequently carried in the balance sheet at amortised cost less impairment.
All investments are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration given and held at this value until it is appropriate to measure fair value on a different basis, applying the Groups valuation policy.
Acquisition costs are attributed to equity investments and recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
64 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 significant accounting policies continued ii Income D Fees a Realised profits over value on the disposal of investments is the i Fees Fees payable represent fees incurred in the process of difference between the fair value of the consideration receivable acquiring an investment and are measured on the accruals basis.
less any directly attributable costs, on the sale of equity and the repayment of loans and receivables, and its fair value at the start of ii Advisory fee An annual advisory fee is payable to 3i plc based the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange on the Gross Investment Value of the Company.
The fee is payable rates in force at the date of disposal: and are recognised in the quarterly in advance and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
Further explanations are provided in Note 19. b Unrealised profits on the revaluation of investments is the iii Performance fee 3i plc is entitled to a performance fee movement in the fair value of investments between the start and based on the Adjusted Total Return per ordinary share generated in end of the accounting period, or the investment acquisition date and the period in excess of a performance hurdle.
The fee is payable the end of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the annually in arrears and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
exchange rates in force at the end of the period: and are recognised in Further explanations are provided in Note 19. the statement of comprehensive income.
iv Finance costs Finance costs associated with loans and c Portfolio income is that portion of income that is directly related to borrowings are recognised on an accruals basis using the effective the return from individual investments.
It is recognised to the extent interest method.
that it is probable that there will be an economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
The following specic recognition E Treasury assets and liabilities criteria must be met before the income is recognised: Short-term treasury assets and shortand long-term treasury Dividends from equity investments are recognised in the statement liabilities are used to manage cash ows and the overall costs of of comprehensive income when the shareholders rights to receive borrowing.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the payment have been established with the exception of dividends balance sheet when the relevant Group entity becomes a party to the paid out of pre-acquisition reserves that are recognised by adjusting contractual provisions of the instrument.
the fair value of the equity investment upon acquisition: i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the Income from loans and receivables and debt held at fair value balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term through profit or loss is recognised as it accrues by reference to deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash comprise cash and short-term deposits as dened above.
Interest ows through the expected life of the financial asset to the assets receivable on cash and cash equivalents is recognised on an carrying value or principal amount: accrualsbasis.
Fees receivable represent amounts earned on completion of ii Bank loans, loan notes and borrowings Loans and borrowings underlying investment transactions and are recognised on an are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, accruals basis once entitlement to the revenue has been net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
recognition, these are subsequently measured at amortised cost iii Impairment of assets held as loans and receivables using the effective interest method, which is the rate that exactly Allnancialassets held as loans and receivables are assessed for discounts the estimated future cash ows through the expected life impairment on both an individual and a collective basis.
The amount of the liabilities.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account of the impairment is measured as the difference between the any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
carrying value of the asset and the net present value of the expected iii Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial future cash ows expected to arise from each asset, based on the instruments are used to manage the risk associated with foreign effective interest rate of each asset.
The amount of the resultant loss currency uctuations of portfolio income, the valuation of the is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
If the investment portfolio and changes in interest rates on borrowings.
impairment analysis demonstrates that the conditions giving rise This is achieved by the use of forward foreign currency contracts and toapreviously recognised impairment are no longer prevalent, a interest rate swaps.
Such instruments are used for the sole purpose reversal of the impairment loss is recognised in the statement of of efficient portfolio management.
All derivative financial instruments comprehensive income.
are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Financials and otherinformation 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 65 Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value I Income taxes on the contract date and subsequently re-measured to the fair value Income taxes represent the sum of the tax currently payable, at each reporting date.
All changes in the fair value of derivative withholding taxes suffered and deferred tax.
Tax is charged or financial instruments are taken to the statement of comprehensive credited in the statement of comprehensive income except to the income.
The maturity prole of derivative contracts is measured extent that it relates to an amount recognised in the statement of relative to the financial contract settlement date of each contract changes in equity when it is recognised directly in this statement.
andthe fair value of the derivative contracts is disclosed accordingly.
Realised gains over fair value on the settlement of The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the period.
derivative financial instruments are the difference between the fair This may differ from the profit included in the consolidated statement value of the consideration receivable and the fair value at the start of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or ofthe accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further rates in force at the date of disposal: and are recognised in the excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups statement of comprehensive income.
liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the financial reporting date.
F Other assets Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities Assets, other than those specically accounted for under a separate inthe financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used policy, are stated at their consideration receivable less impairment inthe computation of taxable profit temporary differences, and losses.
The carrying value of such assets or liabilities is considered isaccounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
approximate to their fair value.
All assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication ofimpairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated based on expected discounted future cash ows.
Any change in levels of impairment is recognised directly inthestatement of comprehensive income.
An impairment loss is reversed at subsequent financial reporting dates to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed its carrying value, had no impairment been recognised.
G Other liabilities Liabilities, other than those specically accounted for under aseparate policy, are stated based on the amounts which are considered to be payable in respect of goods or services received up to the financial reporting date.
The carrying value of other liabilities is considered to be approximate to their fair value.
H Equity and reserves i Share capital Share capital issued by the Company including theconversion of warrants is recognised at the fair value of proceeds received and is credited to the stated capital account.
Direct issue costs net of tax are deducted from the fair value of the proceedsreceived.
ii Equity and reserves The stated capital account of the Company represents the cumulative proceeds recognised from share issues or new equity issued on the conversion of warrants made by the Company net of issue costs and reduced by any amount that has been transferred to distributable reserves in previous years.
Share capital is treated as an equity instrument, on the basis that no contractual obligation exists for the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets to the holder of the instrument.
The retained reserve represents the distributable reserves of the Company.
The retained reserve incorporates the cumulative retained profits of the Company after the payment of dividends plus any amount that has been transferred from the stated capital account of the Company.
iii Dividends payable Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction from retained reserves in the period in which the Companys obligation to make the dividend payment arises.
