Accounting policies Basis of preparation Standards not affecting the reported results The financial statements have been prepared and approved nor the financial position by the directors in accordance with International Financial The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations Reporting Standards endorsed by the EU adopted IFRS.
have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on amounts reported in these The financial statements have been prepared on the historical financial statements.
cost basis, except that certain of the Groups financial instruments are stated at their fair values and the measurement Effective date of long-term employee benefits at present value of the 'Prepayments of a obligation less fair value of any assets held to settle the minimum funding obligation.
The principal accounting policies, which have been IFRIC 14 requirement' 1 January 2011 consistently applied, unless otherwise stated, are set out below.
'Related party In publishing these financial statements, the Company is taking IAS 24 revised disclosures' 1 January 2011 advantage of the exemption provided by section 408 of the Amendments to 'Transfer of financial Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income IFRS7 assets' 1 July 2011 statement and related notes that form part of the approved financial statements.
New standards and interpretations not applied Going concern The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the The directors have, at the time of approving the financial following standards, which are relevant to the Group's reporting statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and but which have not yet been applied and have an effective date the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational after the date of these financial statements: existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to Endorsed by the EU and available for early adoption: adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is included in the directors' Effective date report unaudited on page 64.
Amendments to 'Financial statement IAS 1 June 2011 presentation' 1 July 2012 Accounting estimates and judgements Preparation of the financial statements necessitates the use Standards and interpretations not endorsed: of estimates, assumptions and judgements, which affect the reported values of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at 'Financial the balance sheet date as well as affecting the reported income Instruments: and expenses for the year.
Although the estimates are based IFRS 9 October Classification and on managements knowledge and judgement of information 2010 Measurement' 1 January 2015 and financial data, the actual outcome may differ from these Amendments to 'Deferred Tax: estimates.
The key assumptions which affect these results for IAS 12 December recovery of the year and the balances as at the year-end are specifically 2010 underlying assets' 1 January 2012 identified, where appropriate, in the following notes to the 'Consolidated Group financial statements: IFRS 10 May 2011 financial statements' 1 January 2013 a Periods used for amortisation of intangible assets IFRS 11 May 2011 'Joint arrangements' 1 January 2013 note 12 'Disclosure of Interest in Other b Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets IFRS 12 May 2011 Entities' 1 January 2013 note 12 'Fair Value c Deferred tax assets note 15 IFRS 13 May 2011 Measurement' 1 January 2013 d Provisions - note 27 Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 e Pensions note 32 December 2011 'Transition guidance' 1 January 2013 Amendments to 'Offsetting financial IFRS 7 December assets and financial 2011 liabilities' 1 January 2013 www.
com 67 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement Amendments to 'Offsetting financial by the Group of an acquirees share-based payment awards IAS 32 December assets and financial are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based 2011 liabilities' 1 January 2014 Payments: and Annual 'Improvements to Improvements 2011 IFRS 1, IAS 1, IAS 16, assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for May 2012 IAS 32, IAS 34' 1 January 2013 sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in The directors are still assessing the impact of these standards on accordance with that Standard.
the Group's financial results in the period of initial application.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the Basis of consolidation combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts The consolidated financial information contained within these for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those financial statements incorporates the results, cash flows and provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries for period, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to the period to 30 September 2012.
Subsidiaries are entities reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances controlled by the Company and are included from the date that that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have control commences until the date that control ceases.
Control affected the amounts recognised at that date.
exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to The measurement period is the period from the date of govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information obtain benefits from its activities.
about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised Revenue gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that impairment.
economic benefits will flow to the Group and such revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is recognised as services are Business combinations provided and includes management fees, transaction fees and Purchases of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using performance fees.
The consideration for each acquisition Commissions and similar expenses payable to intermediaries is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the acquisition are recognised when services are provided.
date of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity Initial income from the sale of shares in open end investment instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the companies is taken to the balance sheet and amortised over the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income period of the asset management service, which is estimated statement as incurred.
based on the Groups experience of the average holding periods Where applicable, consideration for an acquisition includes by investors.
any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number arrangement, measured at its fair value at acquisition date.
of clients where the actual performance of the clients Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the assets exceeds defined benchmarks by an agreed level of cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period outperformance over a set time period.
Performance fees adjustments see below.
All other subsequent changes in the are recognised when the quantum of the fee can be reliably fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or estimated and it is probable that the fee will be received.
liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRS.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified Finance revenue as equity are not recognised.
Finance revenue comprises interest and dividends.
Interest The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent income is recognised using the effective interest rate method liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS as it accrues.
Dividend income is recognised when the Groups 3 Revised 2008 are recognised at their fair values at the right to receive payment is established which, in the case of acquisition date, except that: listed securities, is the ex-dividend date.
deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively: 68 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Finance costs Other employee benefits Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings Bonus payments recognised using the effective interest rate method.
They also These are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive include non-utilisation fees charged on the undrawn portion of obligation to make such payments as a result of past events and a the revolving credit facility.
reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
Share based payments Leases The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share All Group leases are operating leases, being leases where based payments to certain employees.
valuation approach, the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of assumptions and schemes are disclosed in note 22. ownership of the leased asset.
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are Rental payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the the lease.
Lease incentives received by the Group are recognised grant date.
as a reduction in the rental expense, recognised on a straight The fair value determined at the grant date of the equityline basis over the term of the lease.
settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line Rental income from sub-leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the service period to vesting, based on the Group's basis over the term of the relevant sub-lease.
estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the Pension costs number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The impact The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in a Group personal pension scheme.
In addition, overseas profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects subsidiaries make contributions to various trade and state the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to defined contribution schemes.
Contributions to these defined equity reserves.
contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement as they become payable under the rules For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised of the schemes.
for the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the The Group also operates a number of legacy defined benefit fair value of the liability.
At each balance sheet date until the pension schemes which arose on acquisitions, one of which liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value is operated by the Company.
All schemes are closed to new of the liability is remeasured, with any changes in fair value membership and to future service accruals.
The Groups net recognised in profit or loss for the year.
obligation in respect of these schemes is calculated separately Employee Benefits Trust for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit The Group has an Employee Benefits Trust EBT which owns that members have earned in return for their service in prior shares in the Company for the purposes of administering periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present the Groups LTIP and deferred share schemes.
The EBT value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
is consolidated into the Group and Company's financial The benefits are discounted at a rate equal to the yield on statements, with any shares held by the EBT deducted from high credit rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates equity.
Any consideration received for such shares is recognised approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the within retained earnings.
No gain or loss is recognised in the projected unit credit method.
income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
The surplus or deficit in respect of defined benefit schemes is expressed as the excess or shortfall of the fair value of the assets of the scheme compared to the present value of the scheme Taxation liabilities and is recognised as an asset or liability of the Group Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and or Company.
Tax is recognised in the income statement Interest costs on the liability, expected return on plan assets except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in and the costs of curtailments and settlements are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable profit Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in other for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group or respect of previous years.
Company, the recognised asset is limited to the present value Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities contributions to the plan.
com 69 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED in the financial statements and the corresponding basis used for amount, the asset is written down to its recoverable amount, tax purposes.
being the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Any impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method and is calculated at the tax rates substantively enacted An item of property, plant & equipment is derecognised upon that are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the disposal or when no further economic benefits are expected liability settled.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised proceeds and the carrying value of the asset is included in the to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be income statement in the year the asset is derecognised.
available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised, except: Intangible assets in respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences Goodwill associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the Goodwill, representing the excess of the cost of acquisition over timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, controlled and it is probable that they will not reverse in liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised in the foreseeable future.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Management contracts and distribution agreements where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from Intangible assets, such as management contracts and the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction distribution agreements acquired as part of a business that: combination, are capitalised where it is probable that future economic benefits attributable to the assets will flow to the is not a business combination: and Group and the fair value of the assets can be measured reliably.
at the time of the transaction, affects neither Management contracts and distribution agreements accounting profit nor loss.
are recorded initially at fair value and then amortised, if appropriate, over their useful lives.
The fair value at the Property, plant & equipment date of acquisition is calculated using discounted cash flow Property, plant & equipment is stated at cost less accumulated methodology and represents the valuation of the net residual depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
income stream arising from the management contracts or Expenditure on property, plant & equipment is capitalised on distribution agreements in place at the date of acquisition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised The contracts are included in the balance sheet as an when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits intangible asset.
attributable to the item and the cost of the item can be The useful lives of management contracts in respect of certain measured reliably.
All other expenditure is recognised as an open end funds, which have no limit of time or termination expense in the income statement as incurred.
provisions, are considered to be indefinite and are therefore not Property, plant & equipment is depreciated so as to write off subject to amortisation.
The indefinite nature of these contracts the cost of assets, on a straight line basis, over their estimated is re-assessed on an annual basis to ensure that the policy useful lives as follows: remains appropriate.
The Group tests for impairment of these assets annually, or more frequently if there is an indication that Heritable property: 50 years the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The recoverable Leasehold property: over the period of the lease amount is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Management contracts in respect of segregated mandates Property improvements: shorter of five years or the period and certain open end funds are considered to have a finite life of the lease and are therefore amortised on a straight line basis over their Computers, fixtures and fittings: three to ten years estimated average contract term of between two and ten years, with amortisation charged to the income statement.
The useful Motor vehicles: four years lives of distribution agreements are determined by the expiry Depreciation is recognised as an expense in the income date of the agreement.
Software The carrying value of these assets is reviewed at each reporting Purchased intangible assets have a finite life and are stated at date to consider whether there is any indication that the value cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
of any asset may be impaired: if any such indication exists and Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight where the carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable 70 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 line basis according to the useful economic life of the intangible carried at fair value in the balance sheet and gains or losses are asset which, for software, is estimated at five years.
Subsequent taken to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only The following assets and liabilities are classified as financial when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the instruments at fair value through profit or loss: specific asset to which it relates.
Current assets All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
At each reporting Assets backing investment contract liabilities date, an assessment is made as to whether there is any Stock of units and shares indication that an asset in use may be impaired.
If any such Seed capital indication exists and the carrying values exceed the estimated Other investments recoverable amount, the asset is written down to its recoverable Current liabilities amount.
The recoverable amount is the greater of the fair value Investment contract liabilities less costs to sell and value in use.
Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair value in Impairment the balance sheet.
Movements in fair value are taken to the fair value reserve until derecognition of the asset, at which time the The Group performs annual impairment reviews in respect of cumulative amount dealt with through this reserve is recognised goodwill and intangible fixed assets with indefinite lives.
The in the income statement.
Group carries out impairment reviews in respect of intangible fixed assets with definite lives, property, plant & equipment and Where there is objective evidence that an available for sale other assets, including fixed asset investments, whenever events financial asset is impaired, the cumulative impairment loss or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount is reclassified from equity to profit and loss with subsequent may not be recoverable.
movements recognised in profit and loss.
The following assets are designated as available for sale: An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cashNon-current assets generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The Other investments recoverable amount is the higher of its value in use and its fair Loans and receivables and other financial liabilities are value less costs to sell.
recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there Convertible bonds that can be converted to share capital at has been a change in the estimates used to determine the the option of the holder, where the number of shares issued recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the does not vary with changes in their fair value, are accounted for extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the as compound financial instruments with a liability and equity carrying amount that would have been determined, net component.
Transaction costs that relate to the issue of a of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had compound financial instrument are allocated to the liability and been recognised.
equity components in proportion to the allocation of proceeds.
The equity component of the convertible bonds is calculated Financial instruments as the excess of the issue proceeds over the present value of Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, the future interest and principal payments, discounted at the in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or market rate of interest applicable to similar liabilities that do loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
They are categorised not have a conversion option.
The interest expense recognised as described below.
in the income statement is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
The fair value of financial instruments that are actively traded on organised financial markets is determined by reference The Group has adopted trade date accounting.
Accordingly, to market bid prices at the close of business on the balance a financial investment is recognised on the date the Group sheet date.
For investments where there is no active market, commits to its purchase and derecognised on the date on which the fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These the Group commits to its sale.
techniques include recent arms length market transactions, reference to the current market value of another financial Cash and cash equivalents instrument which is substantially the same, discounted cash Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits flow analysis and option pricing models.
and investments in money market instruments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are Financial investments at fair value through profit or loss include repayable on demand are included as a component of cash investments acquired principally for the purpose of selling in and cash equivalents for the purposes of the statement of the short term or if so designated by management.
com 71 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Investment contracts Foreign currencies The Group sells unit linked life and pension contracts through The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, its insurance subsidiary, Aberdeen Asset Management Life and the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Management fees earned from these entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and contracts are accounted for as described in the accounting items included in the financial statements of each entity are policy for revenue.
measured in that functional currency.
L&P is consolidated in the Group financial statements on a Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the line-by-line basis.
Unit linked policyholder assets described functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of as assets backing investment contract liabilities held by L&P the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and related policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value, with and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated changes in fair value taken to profit or loss.
at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences arising are taken to the income statement.
Amounts received from and paid to investors under these Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost contracts are treated as deposits received or paid and therefore in a foreign currency are translated to the functional currency not recorded in the income statement.
Charges to investors due using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction and so no under these contracts are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities At the balance sheet date the value of these contracts is stated stated at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the at an amount equal to the fair value of the net assets held to exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Where fair match the contractual obligations.
value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected in the income statement, the corresponding exchange movements Investments in subsidiaries are also recognised in the income statement.
Where fair value In the Company balance sheet, investments in subsidiaries are movements in assets and liabilities are reflected directly in carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
other comprehensive income, the corresponding exchange movements are also recognised directly in other Equity instruments comprehensive income.
Perpetual subordinated capital securities The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to The 7.9% perpetual subordinated capital securities are classified sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
as an element of equity as the securities are irredeemable, The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated except at the Companys option, and coupon payments are to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates discretionary.
Coupon payments, net of attributable tax, are ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences recognised as distributions within equity.
arising are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, all of Dividends the accumulated foreign exchange differences in respect of that Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised on the date of operation are recycled to the profit and loss account.
payment or, if subject to approval, the date approved by shareholders.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
No provision is established where a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
72 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
