Where we operate We have the scale to provide global coverage of financial markets, yet we are flexible enough to focus on each and every portfolio decision.
We have teams of skilled investment professionals across a range of investment strategies including equities, fixed income, property and solutions to serve our institutional and retail clients.
Europe, Middle Asia Pacific Americas Singapore is the Asian headquarters Philadelphia is our hub for North East & Africa of the Group and is home to most America and includes fixed income, The British Isles accounts for 30% of our of our Asian fund managers covering US equity and property teams.
Our clients by AuM, some 54.7 billion.
Our the main asset classes as well as wholesale distribution team now has headquarters are in Aberdeen, where substantial marketing, client servicing presence in the largest metropolitan we locate many Group functions.
We have opened largest office is in London and it is the celebrated the twentieth anniversary of an office in New York, which is intended investment centre for GEM, UK and the Singapore office in 2012, reflecting as a clear statement to existing and European equities, fixed income and fund our long and successful track record in potential clients about our growing of alternatives teams.
Edinburgh is the the region.
presence and commitment to the investment centre for our global equity US market.
Other full service offices are in Bangkok, team and the multi asset team.
Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur, Sydney and We manage almost 17% of our AuM We have a significant presence across Tokyo.
Our Taiwan sales office services on behalf of clients throughout the Continental Europe with 13 offices in the retail market.
Americas and have developed a strong 12 countries.
Europe, excluding UK, platform on which to service institutional Asian clients account for around 12% accounts for over 33% of Group AuM.
of our AuM and our investments in Luxembourg is the domicile for the Asian securities, of which equities, The Toronto office services our Aberdeen Global fund range.
fixed income and property are core burgeoning Canadian client base, while The Middle East and Africa are important competencies for the Group.
So Paulo is a research office for our sources of institutional funds and we emerging markets equity and debt have a strong client base which we teams.
Our Americas team also cover service from London.
Around 8% of Latin American clients investing in our our AuM is managed for institutional Luxembourg fund range.
and sovereign wealth entities in those regions.
4 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 UK Europe excl.
UK Amsterdam Luxembourg Aberdeen Head office Brussels Milan Edinburgh Budapest Oslo Jersey Copenhagen Paris London Frankfurt Stockholm Geneva Zurich Helsinki Net revenue 489.6m 2011: 436.8m Europe, Middle East & Africa Americas Asia Pacific New York Bangkok Shanghai Philadelphia Hong Kong Singapore So Paulo Kuala Lumpur Sydney Toronto Melbourne Taipei Seoul Tokyo Net revenue Net revenue 63.1m 316.5m 2011: 37.2m 2011: 310.0m www.
