2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Financial Statements Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Pages 58 100 Registered Ofce Share Dealing Betfair Group plc If you wish to buy or sell shares in the Company you can do this by using Waterfront the services of a stockbroker or high street bank or through telephone Hammersmith Embankment or online dealing services.
The Companys Registrar, Computershare Chancellors Road access on Winslow Road offer a telephone and online service, further information can be found London W6 9HP at www-uk.
com Please note the following when contacting Computershare: Registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC and The Pavilions Bridgwater Road your valid share certicate at the time of sale.
Bristol BS13 8AE 0870 702 0000 Please note the price of shares can go down as well as up, and you are www.
com not guaranteed to get back the amount you originally invested.
If you are in any doubt you should contact an independent financial adviser.
Please contact Computershare quoting your shareholder reference Details of stockbrokers in the UK can be found via the Association of number on your share certicate or dividend tax voucher for advice Private Client Investment Managers and Stockbrokers APCIMS on regarding any change of name or address, transfer of shares or loss 44 0 20 7448 7100 or at www.
Computershare will also be able to respond to general queries such as the number of shares you hold or ShareGift payment details for dividends.
If you have only a small number of shares which would cost more for you to sell than they are worth, you may wish to consider donating Amalgamation of Accounts them to the charity ShareGift Registered Charity 1052686 which Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of Company mailings owing to specialises in accepting such shares as donations.
The relevant stock multiple accounts in their name should contact Computershare to transfer form may be obtained from the Companys registrar request their accounts be amalgamated.
There are no implications for Capital Gains Tax purposes no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is also Dividend Mandates possible to obtain income tax relief.
Further information about We encourage shareholders to have their dividends paid directly into ShareGift may be obtained on 020 7930 3737 or from their bank account.
This method of payment removes the risk of delay www.
or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures your account is credited on the due date.
Tax vouchers are provided by Computershare.
Professional Advisers To take advantage of this convenient method of payment contact Computershare or visit www-uk.
Auditors Electronic Communications KPMG Audit Plc Using the Companys corporate website as a method of communicating 15 Canada Square with shareholders the Company is able to distribute messages to London E14 5GL shareholders instantaneously.
Receiving the Companys communications electronically allows the Company to communicate Principal Bankers with its shareholders in a more environmentally friendly, cost effective Royal Bank of Scotland plc and timely manner.
You can to elect to receive email notications by 280 Bishopsgate contacting Computershare or by registering with Investor Centre at London EC2M 4RB www-uk.
Principal Solicitors Scams and frauds Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer LLP Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited 65 Fleet Street communications, such as: London EC4Y 1HS If you receive any unsolicited advice, make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and check that they are appropriately authorised by the FSA by visiting www.
More information on protecting your investment can be found at www.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 99 Financial Statements Investor Relations Betfair Group plc website The Companys corporate website provides shareholders with a broad range of information including investor information such as the Companys financial statements, current and historic share prices, AGM materials, events and governance information.
You may visit the investor website at http: corporate.
Financial Calendar 2012 Final Results 29 June 2012 Ex-dividend date 5 September 2012 Record date 7 September 2012 2013 Q1 Interim Management Statement 11 September 2012 Annual General Meeting 11 September 2012 Payment of final dividend 3 October 2012 2013 H1 Interim Management Statement 13 December 2012 Provisional date Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 100 Find out more about Betfair Group plc Betfair Online Here you will nd the latest information on the following: http: corporate.
com This annual report is printed on FSC certi ed material.
This product is based inks were used during production.
Both the paper mill and printer involved in the production support the growth of responsible forest management and are both accredited to ISO 14001 which speci es a process for continuous environmental improvement.
Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140. www.
com Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Betfair Group plc Waterfront Hammersmith Embankment Chancellors Road access on Winslow Road London W6 9HP, England United Kingdom For general enquiries please contact: Email: info@betfair.
