Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors are required by law to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are also required to prepare a Directors Report, Business Review, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement.
The Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report includes information required by the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with these requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Annual Report is published on www.
co. uk, which is the website maintained by the Companys Manager.
The work undertaken by the Auditor does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the website and, accordingly, the Auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Declaration Each of the Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: a the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and b the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
On behalf of the Board Professor Paul Marsh Chairman 29 January 2013 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2012
