Shareholder Information Introduction Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc ASCoT is an Investment Trust whose shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 31 December 2012, it is the largest trust, based on net assets, within its sub-sector of UK Smaller Company Investment Trusts.
Shareholder register enquiries All administrative enquiries relating to Shareholders such as queries concerning holdings, dividend payments, notification of change of address, loss of certificate or to be placed on a mailing list should be addressed to the Companys registrars: Shareholder Services Department, Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 0LA.
Tel: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday.
com Payment of dividends The best way to ensure that dividends are received as quickly as possible is to instruct the Companys registrars, whose address is given above, to pay them directly into a bank account: tax vouchers are then mailed to Shareholders separately.
This method also avoids the risk of dividend cheques being delayed or lost in the post.
The Company also operates a Dividend Re-investment Plan to allow Shareholders to use their cash dividends to buy shares easily and at a low cost via the Companys registrars from whom the necessary forms are available.
Sources of further information The prices of the Ordinary Shares are quoted daily in the Financial Times, The Herald, The Telegraph and The Scotsman.
The price, together with the Net Asset Values and other financial data, can be found on the TrustNet website at www.
Other websites containing useful information on the Company are www.
Company performance and other relevant information are available on the Managers website at www.
co. uk and are updated monthly.
How to invest The Companys Ordinary Shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
They can be bought or sold by placing an order with a stockbroker, by asking a professional adviser to do so, or through most banks.
The Companys Managers, Aberforth Partners LLP, do not offer any packaged products such as ISAs, PEPs, Savings Schemes or Pension Plans.
Security Codes SEDOL Bloomberg Reuters Ordinary Shares of 1p 0006655 ASL LN ASL.
L Continuation Vote The Company has no fixed duration.
However, in accordance with the Articles of Association, an ordinary resolution will be proposed at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and at every third subsequent Annual General Meeting that the Company continues to manage its affairs as an investment trust.
ISA Status The Companys Ordinary Shares are eligible for inclusion in the Stocks and Shares component of an Individual Savings Account ISA.
AIC The Company is a member of The Association of Investment Companies which produces a detailed Monthly Information Service on the majority of investment trusts.
This can be obtained by contacting The Association of Investment Companies, 9th Floor, 24 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4YY Website: www.
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 49 Shareholder Information Financial Calendar Results For the half year to 30 June announced July For the full year to 31 December announced January Ordinary Share Dividends First Interim Ex-dividend July August Payable September Second Interim Ex-dividend January February Payable February Interim Report Published July Annual Report and Accounts Published January Annual General Meeting March Publication of Net Asset Values Daily via the Managers website Glossary Terms Discount is the amount by which the stockmarket price per Ordinary Share is lower than the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
Ongoing Charges is the total cost of investment management fees and other operating expenses as a percentage of the average published net asset value over the period calculated per AIC guidelines.
Gearing represents borrowings by an investment trust to buy investments if the Managers expect stockmarkets ro rise, with a view to making a greater return on the money borrowed than the cost of the borrowing.
If stockmarkets rise, gearing can incresase the Companys returns, but, if they fall, losses will be greater.
Market Capitalisation of a Company is calculated by multiplying the stockmarket price per Ordinary Share by the total number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Net Asset Value, also described as Shareholders funds, is the value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose include borrowings as well as current liabilities.
The Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share is calculated by dividing this amount by the total number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Net Asset Value Total Return represents the theoretical return on Shareholders funds per share assuming that net dividends gross dividends prior to 2 July 1997 paid to Shareholders were reinvested in the Net Asset Value at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Premium is the amount by which the stockmarket price per Ordinary Share exceeds the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
The premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
