Shareholder information 145 LEGAL NOTICE Certain statements included in this Annual Explanatory note for US investors relating Report and Accounts contain forward-looking togas and oil reserves andresources information concerning BG Groups strategy, BG Group continues voluntarily to use operations, financial performance or condition, theUnited States Securities and Exchange outlook, growth opportunities or circumstances Commission SEC definition of proved reserves in the countries, sectors or markets in to report proved gas and oil reserves in this whichthe Group operates.
By their nature, Annual Report and Accounts.
BG Group also forward-looking statements involve risk and voluntarily adopted the SEC definition of uncertainty because they depend on future probable reserves in 2009 and that is used, circumstances, and relate to events, not all where appropriate, in the report.
For further ofwhich are within the Companys control or details of BG Groups proved reserves as at can be predicted by the Company.
Although 31December 2012, and related supplemental the Company believes that the expectations gas and oil information, see Supplementary reflected in such forward-looking statements information gas and oil, on page 128. are reasonable, no assurance can be given Thisreport also contains additional information thatsuch expectations will prove to have been about other BG Group gas and oil reserves correct.
Actual results could differ materially andresources that would not be permitted from those set out in the forward-looking inSEC filings.
For an explanation of terms used statements.
For a description of factors that inconnection with such additional reserves may affect BG Groups business, financial and resources information, refer to page 128. performance or results of operations, weurgeyou to look at the Principal risks and uncertainties included in this Annual Report and Accounts, see pages 32 to 37.
No partofthese results or this report constitutes, orshall be taken to constitute, an invitation orinducement to invest in BG Group plc or anyother entity, and must not be relied upon in any way in connection with any investment decision.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
References in this report to other reports ormaterials, such as a website address, have been provided to direct the reader to other sources of BG Group information which maybe of interest.
Neither the content of BGGroups website nor any website accessible byhyperlinks to BG Groups website nor any additional materials contained or accessible thereon, are incorporated in, or form part of, this report.
BG Group is subject to the regulatory requirements of the Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom.
BG Group plc 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT United Kingdom www.
com Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 Designed and produced by Addison, www.
co. uk Printed in the UK by Pureprint using their and environmental printing technology, andvegetable inks were used throughout.
Both manufacturing mill andtheprinter are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are Forest StewardshipCouncil FSC chain-of-custody certified.
This Annual Report and Accounts has been printed on UPM Fine, apaperproduced using wood fibre from fully sustainable forests with FSC certification.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free and themanufacturing mill holds the ISO14001 and the EMAS  management.
