04 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com WHERE WE OPERATE BG GROUP HAS INTERESTS IN MORE THAN 20COUNTRIES ON FIVE CONTINENTS.
Exploration and Production Liquefaction LNG Shipping & Marketing BG Group manages its business on an integrated basis across the Americas, Europe, Exploration and Production Upstream Africa, Central and South Asia, andAustralia.
Liquefaction Upstream In addition, theGroup has aGlobalEnergy Marketing and Shipping GEMS business unit LNG Shipping & Marketing and a central functional unit, BG Advance.
GEMS develops and implements BG Groups strategy for the marketing and optimisation of all commodity streams in support of the Groups overall strategy of connecting competitively priced resources tohigh-value markets.
Exploration and Production E&P Lique ed Natural Gas LNG BG Advance is the centre of technical capability and expertise for BG Group and supports the Transmission and Distribution T&D Groups assets in seeking to ensure high levels Power Generation of safety and asset integrity.
It also assists in Norway preserving technical standards and commercial governance through assurance, capturing best Kazakhstan practice and promoting functional excellence.
United Kingdom BGAdvance responsibilities also include Group-wide field development planning, project delivery, technology development, IT strategy anddelivery, andcontracting and procurementservices.
United States of America Japan Tunisia Business segments Areas of BG Group has reorganised its business Palestinian Authority China segments such that the previous Exploration andProduction E&P segment has been combined with the liquefaction operations Egypt Thailand associated with integrated liquefied natural gas LNG projects, previously included in the Trinidad and Tobago LNG segment.
These now form the Upstream business segment.
The remaining businesses Kenya comprising the LNG segment, primarily encompassing themarketing and optimisation India Singapore ofLNG, and including interests in regasification Tanzania plants, have been renamed LNG Shipping Brazil &Marketing.
Bolivia Until the fourth quarter of 2012, Transmission Madagascar andDistribution T&D was a standalone Australia business segment.
In light of BG Groups disposal of Comgs and the agreement to Chile Uruguay sell Gujarat Gas Company Limited during 2012, theGroup has discontinued the T&D segment and reallocated the remaining T&Dbusinesses to the Othersegment.
Formore information see page 28. Business review Where we operate continued 05 UPSTREAM LNG SHIPPING & MARKETING BGGroup explores for, develops, produces andmarkets gas and oil BG Group purchases, ships, markets and sells LNG.
The LNG Shipping around the world.
TheGroup uses its technical, commercial andgas & Marketing segment covers theseactivities, as well as the Groups chain skills to deliver projects atacompetitive cost and to maximise interests and capacity inregasification facilities.
TheUpstream business segment covers exploration and production activities plusliquefaction operations associated with integrated LNG projects.
Total operating profit business performance Total operating profit business performance $5 464m 0.4% $2 577m 13% 2011 $5 440m 2011 $2 282m For more information see page 20 For more information see page 24 Exploration and Production E&P Lique ed Natural Gas LNG Transmission and Distribution T&D Power Generation Norway Kazakhstan United Kingdom United States of America Japan Tunisia Areas of Palestinian Authority China Egypt Thailand Trinidad and Tobago Kenya India Singapore Tanzania Brazil Bolivia Madagascar Australia Chile Uruguay For a reconciliation between business performance and totalresults, see note 1, page 93 andnote 9, page 103.
2011 results have been restated to reflect the presentation ofthemajority of the businesses that comprised the T&D segment as discontinued operations see note 7, page 102 and the change in the remaining reporting segments from E&P and LNG to Upstream and LNG Shipping & Marketing.
BG Groups Tokyo office opened in February 2013.
Exclusive right to supply only.
