140 Shareholder information Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com PRESENTATION OF NON-GAAP MEASURES BG Group publishes certain additional valuebeing recorded in the income statement.
costsand tax on the face of the income information in a non-statutory format in These movements in fair value, together with any statement.
Given the relevance of these order to provide readers with an increased unrealised gains and losses associated with businesses withinBG Group, the results of joint insight into the underlying performance discontinued hedge accounting relationships ventures and associates are presented before ofthe business.
The measures the Group that continue to represent economic hedges, interest and tax, and after tax.
aredisclosed separately as disposals, provides additional information on the source re-measurements and impairments.
For a reconciliation Business performance between operating profit and earnings, Business performance excludes BG Group also uses financial instruments, including and excluding the results of joint  and disposals, including derivatives, to manage foreign ventures and associates, see note 1, page 93.  and impairments exchange and interest rate exposure.
These seebelow as exclusion of these items instruments are required to be recognised Exchange rates and prices provides a clear and consistent presentation atfair value or amortised cost on the balance BG Group may also disclose certain information, ofthe underlying operating performance sheet in accordance with IAS 39.
Most of as indicated, at constant US$ UK exchange ofthe Groups ongoing business.
theseinstruments have been designated either rates and upstream prices.
Thepresentation ashedges of foreign exchange movements ofresults in this manner isintended to provide BG Group uses commodity instruments associated with the Groups net investments additional information toexplain further the tomanage price exposures associated with inforeign operations, or as hedges of interest underlying trends in thebusiness.
The disclosure itsmarketing and optimisation activity.
Where these instruments represent re-calculates thecurrent year profit on the Thisactivity enables the Group to take economic hedges but cannot be designated basis that the US$ UK exchange rate and the advantage of commodity price movements.
ashedges under IAS 39, unrealised movements upstream commodity prices were the same as Itisconsidered more appropriate to include in fair value, together with foreign exchange in theprevious year, providing a comparable bothunrealised and realised gains and movements associated with the underlying baseinrespect of these two factors.
lossesarisingfrom the mark-to-market borrowings and foreign exchange movements ofderivatives associated with this activity on monetary items that form part of the Net borrowings or funds and return inBusiness performance.
Groups net investment in foreign operations, onaverage capital employed arerecorded in the income statement and BG Group provides a reconciliation of net Disposals, certain re-measurements disclosed separately as disposals, reborrowings and an analysis of the amounts andimpairments measurements and impairments.
included within net borrowings as this is an BG Groups commercial arrangements for important liquidity measure for the Group.
marketing gas include the use of long-term Realised gains and losses relating to the gassales contracts.
While the activity instruments referred to above are included Return on average capital employed surrounding these contracts involves the inBusiness performance.
This presentation represents profit before tax excluding physical delivery of gas, certain gas sales best reflects the underlying performance of disposals, re-measurements and impairments contracts are classified as derivatives under the business since it distinguishes between plus net interest payable on net borrowings, the rules of International Accounting Standard the temporary timing differences associated asa percentage of average capital employed.
IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition with re-measurements under IAS 39 rules Further information on these measures is and Measurement, issued by the International andactual realised gains and losses.
Accounting Standards Board, and are required to be measured at fair value at the balance BG Group has also separately identified profits sheet date.
Unrealised gains and losses and losses associated with the disposal of onthese contracts reflect the comparison non-current assets, impairments of non-current between current market gas prices and the assets and certain other exceptional items, actual prices to be realised under the gas asthey require separate disclosure in order salescontracts and are disclosed separately as toprovide a clearer understanding of disposals, re-measurements and impairments.
BG Group also uses financial instruments, For a reconciliation between the overall including derivatives, to manage certain resultsand Business performance and priceexposures in respect of optimising the detailsof disposals, re-measurements and timing and location of its physical gas and LNG impairments, see note 1, page 93, note 4, sales commitments.
These instruments are page100 and note 9, page 103. also required to be measured at fair value at the balance sheet date under IAS 39 and where Joint ventures and associates practical have been designated as formal Under International Financial Reporting hedges.
However, IAS 39 does not always allow Standards, the results from jointly controlled the matching offair values totheeconomically entities joint ventures and associates, hedged valueof the related commodity, accounted for under the equity method, resulting inunrealised movements in fair arerequired to be presented net of finance
