142 Shareholder information Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION MANAGING YOUR SHAREHOLDING Dividends Electronic communications Dividends are announced in US Dollars The Companies Act 2006, and the Articles of BGGroup ordinary shares are listed on the butarepaid to holders of ordinary shares Association of BGGroup plc, allow BG Groups London Stock Exchange and trade under inPounds Sterling.
Dividends to holders website to be used to communicate with thesymbol BG.
L. ofADRs are paid in US Dollars.
shareholders, provided that shareholders have agreed to thisor are deemed to have agreed BGGroups shareholder register is The Pound Sterling amount payable per share tothis.
Shareholders may receive notification maintained by our registrar, Equiniti.
will be fixed at the same time as the US Dollar by emailor by post that documents are Forqueries relating toyour shareholding, dividend is announced.
The rate of exchange available to view on the website.
Using please contact Equiniti: used to determine the Pound Sterling equivalent electronic communications reduces printing, amount is theaverage of the daily spot rates for paper andpostage costs and has a positive Telephone: 0 871 384 2064 the three business days prior to the business impact ontheenvironment.
44 121 415 7029 outside UK day before the announcement.
Lines are open from 8.30 am This year, BG Group will invite shareholders to5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
Dividends will be paid on the same day who currently receive hard copy communications Website: www.
co. uk toholders of ordinary shares and ADRs.
toconfirm if they wish to continue to receive Online: https: help.
co. uk communications in hard copy in the future.
From here, you will be able Dividend payments directly Shareholders who wish to receive hard copy toemail your query securely into your bank account documents in the future should complete Address: Equiniti, Aspect House, Dividend payments on ordinary shares can be theform enclosed with their annual report Spencer Road, Lancing, paid directly into your UK bank or building society and return it to Equiniti.
Shareholders who West Sussex BN99 6DA, account onthe payment date.
Direct dividend donotrespond by Friday 24 May 2013 will UK payments help BGGroup improve its efficiency by bedeemed tohave consented to receiving reducing postage, printing and cheque clearance electronic communication via the Groups BGGroup American Depositary Receipts costs.
They also help BGGroup trace shareholders website and willreceive hard copy notification ADRs are listed on the US over-the-counter forwhom the Groupdoes not have acurrent when documents are available to be viewed.
market known as OTCQX International address.
To register for this service, contact Premier and trade under the symbol BRGYY.
Equiniti or download aform from our website Shareholders who have received notification by going towww.
com registrar ofavailability of a document on the BGGroups ADR register is maintained Companyswebsite are entitled to request byourADR depositary bank, Deutsche Equiniti offers an overseas payments fromEquiniti, free ofcharge, a hard copy Bank TrustCompany Americas: servicetooverseas shareholders in more than ofanysuch document.
Under the service, canalsorevoke their consent to receive Telephone: 1 800 937 5449 shareholders may elect to receive their BGGroup  at any time US residents toll free dividends in their local currency.
1 718 921 8124 outside USA administration fee, holders of ordinary shares Website: www.
com can have their dividends automatically converted Duplicate documents Email: db@amstock.
com from Pounds Sterling into their local currency A number of our shareholders receive duplicate Address: Deutsche Bank Trust Company and paid into their bank account.
For documentation as a result of having more Americas, furtherdetails, contact Equiniti or visit thanone account on the register.
If this c o American Stock Transfer www.
co. uk appliesto your shareholdings, you may elect & Trust Company, tohave your accounts combined by 6201 15th Avenue, Consolidated tax vouchers contactingEquiniti.
Brooklyn NY11219, Shareholders who have elected to have their USA dividends paid directly into their bank account Voting electronically receive just one tax voucher each year covering All shareholders can appoint proxies for the both the interim and final dividend payments.
co. uk For those shareholders who have made suchan Alternatively, shareholders who have already election, a consolidated tax voucher isenclosed registered withShareview canappoint a proxy with this report and covers all dividends paid byloggingon to www.
co. uk during the UK 2012 13 tax year.
Ifyou have more than one shareholder accountin the same name s, you will receive aseparate tax voucher in respect of those shareholdings in addition tothe one enclosed.
Shareholders wishing to receive a tax voucher in respect of each dividend payment should contact Equiniti.
Calls to this number are charged at 8 pence per minute from aBT landline.
Call charges from other networks may vary.
Shareholder information Shareholder information continued 143 Gifting your shares BG GROUP WEBSITE SHAREVIEW To transfer your shares to another member of www.
co. uk your family as a gift, please contact Equiniti for agift transfer form.
If you have a small number Visit www.
com investors This is a free, secure online site where youcan: ofshares and the dealing costs or minimum to findout more information on the: access information about your shareholding, feemake it uneconomical to sell them, you may AGM: including balance movements: like to donate them to charity through ShareGift, latest financial results: see an indicative value of your shareholding: acharity administered byThe Orr Mackintosh reports: view information on recent Foundation.
ContactEquiniti fora ShareGift share price: dividendpayments: transfer form.
Information isalso available on financialcalendar: and update your records if you change your theShareGiftwebsite at www.
nameoraddress: set up a dividend mandate or change BGGroup corporate individual Youcan also find out how to receive future yourexisting mandate details: and savings accounts ISAs shareholder communications electronically, sign up to receive communications by email.
and can access dividend calculators, change Telephone: 0151 237 2160 ofaddress and stock transfer forms, as well To register for this service, visit Website: www.
co. uk asfrequently asked shareholder questions.
co. uk you will need your Address: Investec Wealth &Investment shareholder reference number, which can Limited, ThePlaza, 100 Old Hall Street, befound on your dividend tax voucher Liverpool L3 9AB oronyour proxy form.
Low-cost share dealing services Information on a range of low-cost sharedealing services is available from Equinition0845 603 7037 or at www.
com dealing Share fraud warning SHAREHOLDER PROFILE Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited Analysis of shareholders Number of % of total Number % of ordinary phone calls or correspondence concerning As at 31 December 2012 shareholders shareholders of shares shares investment matters.
These are typically from Nominees and institutional investors 14 638 2.23 3 327 918 914 91.81 overseas-based brokers who target UK Individuals 582 408 97.77 286 216 621 8.19 shareholders, offering to sell them what often Total 597 046 100.00 3 614 135 535 100.00 turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in UK or overseas investments.
These operations Range of shareholdings Number of % of total Number % of ordinary are commonly known as boiler room scams.
uk fsaregister to ensure they are authorised: GROUP FINANCIAL CALENDAR use the details on the FSA Register to contact the firm: Event Type Date call the FSA Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234 2012 final dividend Ex-dividend 17 Apr 2013 if there are no contact details on the Register or 2012 final dividend Record date 19 Apr 2013 you are told they are out of date: and First quarter 2013 results Announcement 2 May 2013 Strategy Presentation Presentation 14 May 2013 search the FSAs list of unauthorised firms 2013 Annual General Meeting Meeting 23 May 2013 andindividuals to avoid doing business with.
a 2012 final dividend Dividend payment UK and US ADR 31 May 2013 b Second quarter 2013 results Announcement 26 July 2013 If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell b 2013 interim dividend Ex-dividend 7 Aug 2013 shares or other investments, you will not have b 2013 interim dividend Record date 9 Aug 2013 access to the Financial Ombudsman Service a b 2013 interim dividend Dividend payment UK and US ADR 6 Sep 2013 orFinancial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
a Following the move to declare all dividends in US Dollars, both ordinary share and ADR dividends will be paid on the same day.
Actual dates will be confirmed on the BGGroup website in due course.
Report a scam If you are approached about a share scam, BGGROUP IS NOT BRITISH GAS youshould tell the FSA using the share fraud BGGroup wasformed following the and operated by Centrica plc.
Any British reporting form at www.
uk scams, demergersof British Gas andBG plc.
Gasservice or shareholder enquiries must where you can find out about the latest Twoother companies operate asa result bedirected toCentrica plc, notBGGroup.
You can also call the FSA ofthe demergers: Centrica plc andNational Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234.
BGGroup is not British Gas, the UK More information, including contact information ofany share dealing facilities that BGGroup supplier ofgas, electricity and home services.
for Centrica andNational Grid, can be found endorses will be included in theGroups mailings The British Gas business intheUK is owned atwww.
com demerger or made available at www.
