58 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 Investments in property are initially recognised at cost and Cash and cash equivalents then valued at fair value based on an independent professional Cash and cash equivalents are defined as short term, highly valuation at the reporting date, with changes in fair value liquid investments that are readily convertible to known recognised through the income statement.
Disposals of amounts of cash.
investment property are recognised when contracts for sale have Other receivables been exchanged and the sale has been completed.
Other receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their In respect of unquoted instruments, or where the market for nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established by irrecoverable amounts.
using valuation techniques, which may include using recent arms length market transactions between knowledgeable, willing Office premises parties, if available, reference to the current fair value of another Office premises are valued every three years by chartered instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow surveyors on the basis of market value in accordance with the analysis and option pricing models.
Where there is a valuation RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards.
No depreciation has technique commonly used by market participants to price the been charged on these assets as, in the opinion of the Board, instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to provide any provision for depreciation would be immaterial.
reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market transactions, that technique is utilised.
Where no reliable fair value can be Other fixed assets estimated for such unquoted equity instruments, they are carried Other fixed assets are held at cost less accumulated at cost, subject to any provision for impairment.
depreciation, which is charged to write off the value of the Investments in subsidiary companies are valued in the Companys asset over three years.
accounts at the Directors estimate of their fair value, using the guidelines and methodologies on valuation published by the Intangible assets International Private Equity and Venture Capital Association.
The external costs associated with the development and Valuation of mineral rights, included in unlisted investments is based procurement of significant technology systems are capitalised upon the gross income received from the asset in the previous where it is probable that the expected future economic benefit twelve months multiplied by appropriate factors for gas and oil.
of that system will flow to the entity.
They are stated at cost less Mineral rights are included in unlisted investments.
On the completion of each project Foreign exchange gains and losses for fair-value designated amortisation is charged so as to write off the value of these assets investments are included within the changes in its fair value.
over periods up to five years.
Derivative financial instruments Impairment The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying changes in market prices, foreign currency exchange rates and amounts of its intangible assets to determine whether there is any interest rates.
Derivative transactions which the Group may enter indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If include interest rate futures and swaps.
The Group may also use any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is credit derivatives, for example buying or selling protection on estimated to determine the extent of any impairment loss if any.
credit default swaps in order to manage credit risk.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than Credit derivatives are used as a way of managing credit risk to its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced counterparties, for effective portfolio management through to the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised hedging and investment purposes, within the Alliance Trust immediately in the income statement, unless the relevant asset is Investment Funds in particular the Monthly Income Bond Fund and carried at a re-valued amount, in which case the reversal of the Dynamic Bond Fund which are consolidated into the Group figures.
impairment is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value Financial liabilities and equity on the date on which the derivative contract is entered into Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The fair value of according to the substance of the contractual arrangements forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity dates.
a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all Changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments are of its liabilities.
recognised in the Income Statement.
The effective portion of change in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and Bank borrowings qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, recognised immediately in profit or loss.
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption
