Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 | 57 Share based payments Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to The Group operates two share based payment schemes, the the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP and the Long Term against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The cost of the AESOP is recognised as a Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary revenue cost in the year.
The fair value of options granted to differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or from employees under the LTIP is recognised as staff costs, with a the initial recognition other than in a business combination of corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The tax profit nor the accounting profit.
amount recognised as an expense may be adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
For share based Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary compensation schemes settled by the Company a recharge equal differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates to the cost during the year is made to subsidiary companies.
and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is Investment incentive plan probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the The Investment Annual Incentive Plan is a discretionary plan for foreseeable future.
members of the investment team.
It consists of matching awards The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each which are based upon the proportion of annual bonus set aside in balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer the scheme by the participants either in the form of cash or units probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all in the funds which they manage.
The awards are settled in cash or part of the asset to be recovered.
at the end of a three year performance period subject to meeting Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to predefined performance targets.
apply in the year when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except Pension costs when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in Employer contributions to pension arrangements for staff are which case the deferred tax is also recorded within equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally Contributions in respect of the defined benefit scheme are enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax calculated by reference to actuarial valuations carried out for liabilities and where they relate to income taxes levied by the the Trustees of the scheme at intervals of not more than three same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current years, and represent a charge to cover the accruing liabilities on tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Neither the Company or the Group recognise deferred tax assets Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of or liabilities on capital profits or losses on the basis that the comprehensive income in the year in which they occur.
investment trust status of the Company means no tax is due on the capital profits or losses of the Company.
Taxation The Company carries on its business as an investment trust and Financial instruments conducts its affairs so as to qualify as such under the provisions of Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the The tax expense predominantly represents the sum of the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group will only withholding tax suffered on foreign dividends.
offset financial assets and financial liabilities if it has a legally The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
enforceable right of set off and intends to settle on a net basis.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income Investments statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for date where a purchase or sale is made under a contract whose current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or terms require delivery within the time frame established by the substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against Investments are principally designated as fair value through profit capital returns in the supplementary information in the income and loss upon initial recognition not including transaction costs.
statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable Listed investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented value, which is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending in the revenue return column of the income statement, then no on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Listed investments include Collective Investment Schemes authorised in the UK.
These are valued at closing prices.
