90 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 Information for shareholders Information held on the Companys Register of Members is, Incorporation by law, information to which the public may, for a proper Alliance Trust PLC is incorporated in Scotland with the purpose, have access and the Company cannot prevent any registered number 1731. person inspecting it or having copies of it for such purpose, The Companys Register of Members is held at on payment of the statutory fee.
Computershare Investor Services PLC, Lochside House, 7 Lochside Avenue, Edinburgh Park, Edinburgh EH12 9DJ.
Electronic Communications If you hold your shares in your own name, we are able to General Enquiries send you annual reports and notices of meetings electronically If you have an enquiry about the Company, please contact instead of in paper format.
If you wish to register for this the Company Secretary at our registered office: service please log on to www.
htm which will provide you with a link to our registrars website.
8 West Marketgait, Dundee DD1 1QN Taxation Tel: 01382 321000 If you are in any doubt about your liability to tax arising Fax: 01382 321185 from a shareholding in the Company you should seek Email: investor@alliancetrust.
For security and compliance monitoring purposes telephone calls may be recorded.
Income Tax Dividends paid by the Company carry a tax credit at 10% of Investor Relations the gross dividend.
Dividends are paid net of the tax credit.
Our Head of Investor Relations can be contacted at our registered office detailed above.
If you hold your shares in your own name, the tax voucher which you need for your tax records will be sent to the Our website www.
co. uk contains information address we have for you on the register maintained by about the Company, including daily share price and net Computershare.
The Registrar will send a consolidated tax asset value.
The Investor Relations section of the website voucher to members after the final dividend during the tax contains the terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, year is paid.
Nomination and Board Risk Committees.
If your dividends are received by a nominee, such as your Registrars stockbrokers nominee, you must contact that person for the tax voucher.
If you invest in the Company through Our registrars are: Alliance Trust Savings, it will automatically supply you with Computershare Investor Services PLC a consolidated income tax voucher for income received for PO Box 82, The Pavilions, you in the Investment Dealing Account.
Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH Capital Gains Tax Change of address notifications and registration enquiries for shareholdings registered in your own name should be sent to For investors who purchased shares prior to 31 March the Companys registrars at the above address, which should 1982, the cost of those shares for capital gains tax purposes also be contacted if you would like dividends on shares is deemed to be the price of the share on that date.
The registered in your own name to be sent to your bank or market value of each Alliance Trust PLC ordinary 25p share building society account.
You may check your holdings and on that date was 2.85 which, when adjusted for the split view other information about Alliance Trust shares registered on a 10 for 1 basis on 21 June 2006, gives an equivalent in your own name at www.
The market value of each Second Alliance Trust PLC ordinary 25p share on 31 March 1982 Data Protection was 2.35.
Holders of Second Alliance Trust PLC shares received 8.7453 ordinary 2.5p shares for each 25p ordinary The Company is a data controller as defined under the share they held on 20 June 2006 and are treated as though Data Protection Act 1998.
Information received from they acquired these shares at the same time and at the same or about shareholders or investors for example from a cost as the Second Alliance Trust shares they previously stockbroker, whether by telephone or in writing, by fax or held.
This gives an equivalent value of 0.269 per share.
by any other electronic or digital means of communication may be processed.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 | 91 Share Investment Bogus telephone calls Alliance Trust invests primarily in equities and fixed income We have become aware of a numbers of telephone calls and aims to generate capital growth and a progressively being made to shareholders wherein the caller offers to rising dividend from its portfolio of investments.
The shares buy the recipients shares at a price significantly above the in the Trust may be suitable for private investors in the current market price.
We suspect that these calls are bogus UK,  private clients and institutional and to that end we have alerted the Financial Services investors who seek income and the potential for and who Authority FSA of the names of the companies involved.
We understand and are willing to accept the risks of exposure are prohibited from advising shareholders on whether to to equities and who seek a combination of capital and buy or to sell shares in Alliance Trust PLC, but recommend income return.
Private investors should consider consulting that if you wish to sell your shares you only deal with a an independent financial adviser who specialises in advising financial services firm that is authorised by the FSA.
on the acquisition of shares and other securities before acquiring shares.
Annual General Meeting The 125th Annual General Meeting of the Company will Investors should be capable of evaluating the risks and be held at 11.00am on Friday 3 May 2013 at the Apex City merits of such an investment and should have sufficient Quay Hotel, Dundee.
The Notice of Meeting, detailing the resources to bear any loss that may result.
business of the meeting, is sent to all shareholders.
Risks Financial Calendar If you wish to acquire shares in the Company, you should Proposed dividend payment dates for the financial year to take professional advice as to whether an investment in our 31 December 2013 are on or around: shares is suitable for you.
You should be aware that: t OWFTUNFOU TIPVME CF NBEF GPS UIF MPOH UFSN 1 July 2013 30 September 2013 t 5IF QSJDF PG B TIBSF XJMM CF BGGFDUFE CZ UIF TVQQMZ BOE 31 December 2013 demand for it and may not fully represent the underlying 31 March 2014 value of the assets of the Company.
The price generally stands below the net asset value of the Company Investor Forums at a discount but it may also stand above it at a premium.
Your capital return will depend upon the We are pleased to announce that we will be holding two movement of the discount premium over the period you investor presentations during 2013: own the share, as well as the capital performance of the 3 May 2013 Companys own assets Apex Hotel, Dundee, following the Annual General Meeting t 5IF BTTFUT PXOFE CZ UIF $PNQBOZ NBZ IBWF FYQPTVSF 10 September 2013 to currencies other than Sterling.
Changes in market Victoria Plaza Hotel, London movements and in rates of exchange may cause the value of your investment to go up or down Details of these and future events can be found at www.
t 1BTU QFSGPSNBODF JT OPU B HVJEF UP UIF GVUVSF 8IBU ZPV get back will depend on investment performance.
You may not get back the amount you invest.
