56 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 Any required changes will be applicable to the financial Special dividends receivable are treated as repayment of capital statements of the Company and Group for the year ended or as income depending on the facts of each particular case.
31 December 2013 and future years and are expected to impact Underwriting commission is recognised as earned.
the Company and Groups accounting for financial assets and Savings and pension plan transaction charges and set-up fees liabilities and the disclosures thereof.
are accounted for on the date on which the underlying The IASB issued Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, transaction occurs.
Annual charges are applied over the year to IFRS 12 and IAS 27 in October 2012.
This is due to be adopted which they relate.
by the European Union by the end of 2013 when the Directors Expenses connected with rental income and mineral rights are will consider the implications for the financial statements of the included as administrative expenses.
Foreign currencies The directors do not believe that the adoption of the other Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are recorded at standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial the rates of exchange applicable to the dates of the transactions.
statements of the Company or the Group in future periods.
At each balance sheet date, monetary items and non-monetary assets and liabilities that are fair valued and are denominated Basis of consolidation in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation statements of the Company and entities controlled by the are included as capital net profit or loss for the year where Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
investments are classified as fair value through profit or loss.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an invested entity so as to Expenses obtain benefits from its activities.
Where the Company has an All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In respect of investment of over 50% of the issued share capital of an Open the analysis between revenue and capital items presented within Ended Investment Company OEIC, the Company will treat the income statement, all expenses have been presented as the OEIC as a subsidiary.
Third party investment in the OEICs is revenue items except as follows: recognised in the balance sheet as a liability.
Net gains losses t &YQFOTFT XIJDI BSF JODJEFOUBM UP UIF BDRVJTJUJPO PG BO attributable to these investors are treated as finance costs in the investment are included within the cost of that investment.
income statement and are disclosed in note 5 on page 62 of the financial statements.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, t &YQFOTFT XIJDI BSF JODJEFOUBM UP UIF EJTQPTBM PG BO JOWFTUNFOU income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
are deducted from the disposal proceeds of the investment.
"t ""OOVBM CPOVT BOE ODFOUJWF 1MBO DPTUT XIJDI SFMBUF UP UIF Presentation of income statement achievement of investment manager performance objectives In order better to reflect the activities of an investment trust and and total shareholder return and net asset value performance in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary objectives are allocated against capital profits and those that information which analyses the income statement between items relate to the achievement of other corporate targets or job of a revenue and capital nature has been presented along with performance objectives against revenue profits save for those the income statement."
Net capital returns are not distributed by costs associated with the fixed income bond fund which are all way of a dividend.
t 5IF %JSFDUPST IBWF EFUFSNJOFE UP BMMPDBUF UXP UIJSET PG UIF Revenue recognition cost of bank indebtedness incurred to finance investment Dividend income from investments is recognised when the against capital profits with the balance being allocated against Company or Groups rights to receive payment have been revenue profits save for those costs associated with the fixed established, normally the ex-dividend date.
income bond fund which are all allocated to revenue costs.
Where the Group has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of cash dividend Operating leases foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of Charges for operating leases are debited to the income statement shares received over the amount of cash dividend foregone is on an accruals basis.
Note 26 Operating lease commitments recognised as a capital gain in the income statement.
discloses the commitments to pay charges for leases expiring Rental income from investment property and income from within 1, between 2-5 years and over 5 years.
mineral rights is recognised on a time apportioned basis.
Interest income is accrued on a time apportioned basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
