Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 | 55 Basis of accounting Notes The same accounting policies, presentations and methods of 1.
General Information computation are followed in these financial statements as were applied in the Groups last annual audited financial statements.
Alliance Trust PLC was incorporated in the United Kingdom under Both the parent Company financial statements and the Group the Companies Acts 1862-1886.
The address of the registered financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis office is given on page 90.
The nature of the Groups operations in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and its principal activities are a global investment trust.
IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRSs.
Last year the Companys financial year end changed to The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost 31 December 2011.
The following notes refer to the year ended basis, except that investments and investment properties are stated 31 December 2012 and the comparatives which are in brackets at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out for the 11 months to 31 December 2011. below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Financial Statements of Critical accounting estimates and judgements Investment Trust Companies for investment trusts issued by the The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2003 the exercise of judgement both in application of accounting as revised in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements policies which are set out below and in the selection of of IFRS, then the Directors have sought to prepare the financial assumptions used in the calculation of estimates.
These estimates statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the and judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are SORP.
The Group and the Company have prepared the financial continually evaluated based on historical experience and other statements under the SORP save for the matters noted below.
However, actual results may differ from these estimates.
The Company allocates direct costs, including expenses incidental The most significantly affected components of the financial to the purchase and sale of investments and incentive awards statements and associated critical judgements are as follows: deemed to be performance related pursuant to the SORP against capital profits.
However, the Company treatment varies with the Valuation of unlisted investments recommendation of the SORP which states that either a proportion Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently of all indirect expenditure or no indirect expenditure is allocated traded are stated at Directors best estimate of fair value.
The Company allocates indirect expenditure arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised against revenue profits save that two thirds of the costs of bank valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length indebtedness, an indirect cost, are allocated against capital profits transactions in the same or similar instruments.
Investments in save for the costs associated with seeding the fixed income bond subsidiary companies are valued in the Companys accounts at fund which are all charged to revenue.
The allocation of the costs the Directors estimate of their fair value, using the guidelines of bank indebtedness reflects the long term return expected from and methodologies on valuation published by the International the Companys investment portfolio.
Private Equity and Venture Capital Association.
With respect specifically to investments in private equity, whether through Adopted IFRSs funds or partnerships, the Directors rely on unaudited valuations of No amendments were made to any applicable IFRS for the year the underlying investments as supplied by the managers of those ended 31 December 2012. funds or partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles IFRSs not yet applied applied by the managers to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the above policies.
The following standards and interpretations which have been adopted by the European Union are not effective for the year Defined benefit scheme ended 31 December 2012 and have not been applied in The estimation of the expected cash flows used in the calculation preparing the financial statements but are relevant to the financial of the defined benefit scheme liabilities includes a number of statements of the Group and the Company: assumptions around mortality and inflation rates applicable to IFRS 7 Amendments to Financial instruments disclosure in defined benefits.
More detail is given in note 25 of the financial relation to off setting financial assets and liabilities.
The Directors take actuarial advice when selecting IFRS 9 Classification and measurement of financial instruments these assumptions and when selecting the discount rate used to IFRS10 Accounting for consolidated financial statements calculate the defined benefit scheme surplus deficit.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interest in Other entities 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies IFRS 13 Fair Value measurement IAS 1 Amendments to presentation and classification of Other The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt Comprehensive Income the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements for IAS 19 Amendments to Employee Benefits additional the reasons set out on page 47. disclosure and clarifications IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
