Simplicity Focusing our efforts on the things that matter most.
In a world of increasing complexity and for a business of such size and geographic diversity as BHP Billiton, the environment in which we operate will invariably change over time.
Having clear sight on those things that matter most helps us to stay true to our strategy and deliver value to our shareholders.
Ferrous and Coal Our Manganese CSG produces a combination of ores and alloys Our Ferrous and Coal business comprises long-life, low-cost, from sites in Australia and South Africa.
Our focus on Simplicity and the execution operating performance and improved plant availability at both of our simple, diversified upstream strategy, in conjunction GEMCO, in Australia, and Hotazel, in South Africa, underpinned with these resources, will create strong and predictable growth annual ore production and sales records in FY2012.
of iron ore, metallurgical coal and manganese.
The Group has been quick to respond to falling prices in the Our Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO operations involve an downstream manganese alloy industry and has acted decisively integrated system of mines and more than 1,000 kilometres of rail by closing energy intensive silicomanganese alloy production infrastructure and port facilities in the Pilbara region of northern capacity in South Africa and by temporarily closing capacity Western Australia.
In WAIO, all of our major growth projects at TEMCO, Australia.
After extensive stakeholder consultation remain on schedule and budget.
Completion of the Port Hedland and the identification of significant cost reduction opportunities, Inner Harbour Expansion project in the second half of CY2012 in May 2012, Manganese announced TEMCO would restart, will deliver additional car dumper and ship-loader capacity.
with full production expected in September.
This project will allow production to be ramped-up to 220 million Non-Ferrous tonnes per year 100 per cent basis with the commissioning BHP Billitons Non-Ferrous business comprises our Base of the Jimblebar mine in the first quarter of CY2014.
Metals, Diamonds and Specialty Products and Uranium Our Metallurgical Coal Customer Sector Group CSG is the businesses.
We manage large mineral resource basins across worlds largest supplier of seaborne metallurgical coal.
We have these businesses where multiple expansion options are more assets in two major resource basins in Australia: the Bowen attractive than investing in isolated deposits.
Basin in Central Queensland and the Illawarra region of New In our Base Metals CSG, our portfolio of large, low-cost mining South Wales.
operations includes the Escondida mine in Chile, the worlds Our Queensland Coal business has been severely constrained largest single producer of copper.
We also own 33.75 per cent by industrial action over the past year and heavy rainfall of Antamina, a large, low-cost, long-life copper zinc mine over an extended period.
A strong Australian dollar, general in Peru.
Opened in 2001, its reserves are expected to support inflationary pressure and soft demand have placed additional mining at current rates for a further 16 years.
Our wholly owned pressure on operating margins in this business.
In response to Cannington mine in North West Queensland, Australia, is one these challenges, we have chosen to delay the not yet commenced of the worlds largest producers of silver.
Our wholly owned 2.5 million tonne per annum expansion of the Peak Downs mine.
Pampa Norte Cerro Colorado and Spence operations produce The 5.5 million tonne per annum Caval Ridge mine and the Hay copper cathode.
In FY2012, the decision was made to resume Point Stage Three Expansion remain on schedule and will deliver sulphide mining and milling operations at the Pinto Valley Mine first production in CY2014.
The capacity of our Queensland Coal located in Arizona, United States.
business is expected to rise substantially by the end of CY2014 as all other projects remain on schedule and budget.
26 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2012 BHP Billiton established strong momentum in its Base Metals Our greenfield discovery effort through Minerals Exploration business in the June 2012 quarter.
Escondida copper production ensures a standardised approach to identifying and acquiring increased by 22 per cent from the March 2012 quarter as mining potential giant resources, while our brownfields exploration activities progressed towards higher grade ore, while quarterly within current basins continues to focus on delineation drilling material mined, mill throughput and copper production records programs near our existing mines.
at Antamina added to the strong finish to the year.
Annual Aluminium and Nickel copper production, however, declined marginally in FY2012 In FY2012, our focus on Simplicity saw us consolidate our as lower grades and industrial action constrained performance Stainless Steel Materials and Aluminium businesses into at Escondida for the first nine months of the year.
The combination provides appropriate scale Escondida copper production is forecast to increase by within the BHP Billiton portfolio, as well as simplifying the approximately 20 per cent in FY2013.
Successful completion of functional structure of the business to assist in our efforts both the Escondida Ore Access and Laguna Seca Debottlenecking to make it a more efficient and competitive organisation.
projects is expected to drive Escondida copper production to over Our Aluminium portfolio is focused on operational excellence 1.3 million tonnes 100 per cent basis in FY2015.
Development and safely ramping-up to its maximum technical capabilities.
of Escondida Organic Growth Project 1 and the Oxide Leach Area It comprises assets at three stages of the aluminium value Project is expected to sustain Escondida copper production chain: mining bauxite, refining bauxite into alumina and at an elevated level for the remainder of this decade.
smelting alumina into aluminium metal.
The Worsley Efficiency In our Uranium CSG, Olympic Dam contributed strongly to and Growth project delivered first alumina production during the copper production result, while uranium production was FY2012, and full production is on track to be achieved within also stable.
the original ramp-up schedule of 1216 months.
Our Hillside smelter is on track for full production recovery during FY2013.
Our Diamonds and Specialty Products CSG operates our diamonds business and the exploration and development Despite a challenging environment, in FY2012 the Nickel portfolio of a potash business.
The business is conducting a review delivered on its cost optimisation initiatives, achieving substantial of the diamonds business.
On 7 September 2012, we announced cost reductions.
Our Nickel West Asset consists of an integrated the sale of our non-operated interest in Richards Bay Minerals, system of nickel-bearing sulphide mines, concentrators, a smelter in South Africa, to Rio Tinto was complete.
At EKATI, in Canada, and a refinery.
In FY2012, the successful completion of the Talc diamond production fell as a result of grade decline, consistent Redesign project at Nickel Wests Mt Keith operation provided with the mine plan.
a basis to temporarily reduce mining activity through the accessing of stockpiled high-talc ore. Our potash strategy is to build a material industry position over the long term.
We continue advancing the Jansen Potash Cerro Matoso, our lateritic nickel ore deposit in Colombia, Project, a greenfield potash project, in Saskatchewan, Canada.
is a low-cost ferronickel producer and successfully completed Jansen progressed into the feasibility study phase an advanced its Line 1 furnace replacement in FY2012.
stage of our project approvals process in February 2011.
