1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.6.
6 Customer Sector Group summary continued Group and unallocated items This category represents corporate activities, including Group Treasury, Freight, Transport and Logistics operations.
Year ended 30 June 2012 compared with year ended 30 June 2011 The Underlying EBIT expense for Group and Unallocated in FY2012 decreased by US$157 million to US$248 million.
Higher corporate and information technology costs were more than offset by a foreign exchange related restatement and partial release of the Newcastle steelworks rehabilitation provision.
Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year ended 30 June 2010 The Underlying EBIT expense for Group and Unallocated decreased by US$136 million in FY2011 to US$405 million.
The weaker US dollar and inflation had an unfavourable impact on Underlying EBIT of US$105 million.
Self insurance claims related to the Clark Shaft incident at Olympic Dam reduced Underlying EBIT in the prior period by US$297 million.
7 Third party sales We differentiate sales of our production from sales of third party products due to the significant difference in profit margin earned on these sales.
The table below shows the breakdown between our production and third party products.
2 Operating profit divided by revenue.
We engage in third party trading for the following reasons: Production variability and occasional shortfalls from our own assets means that we sometimes source third party materials to ensure a steady supply of product to our customers.
To optimise our supply chain outcomes, we may buy physical product from third parties.
In order to support development of more liquid markets, we will sometimes source third party physical product and manage risk through both the physical and financial markets.
3.7 Liquidity and capital resources As a result of our record production volumes and record prices in many of our key commodities over the past several years, we have generated very strong cash flows throughout our operations.
Despite the changing economic and market conditions, our net operating cash flow in the year ended 30 June 2012 of US$24.4 billion reflected the strong cash generating capacity of the business throughout the economic cycle.
These cash flows have been fundamental to our ability to internally fund our existing operations, maintain a pipeline of growth projects and return capital to shareholders through dividends and, in prior years, share buy-backs.
Our priority for cash is to reinvest in the business.
In line with our strategy, we have grown our business rapidly and consistently through project developments and acquisitions.
Through a combination of borrowings and payments to shareholders, we manage our balance sheet with the goal of maintaining levels of gearing that we believe optimise our costs of capital and return on capital employed.
Net operating cash flows are our principal source of cash.
We also raise funds from the debt markets to manage our liquidity position and to refinance existing debt.
Our liquidity position is supported by our strong and stable credit rating and committed debt facilities.
