1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Questions can be registered prior to the meeting by completing the 5.2 Shareholder engagement relevant form accompanying the Notice of Meeting.
Shareholders Part of the Boards commitment to high-quality governance can also email the Group at investor.
is expressed through the approach we take to engaging and Questions can be lodged ahead of the meeting and the answers communicating with shareholders.
We encourage shareholders to the most frequently asked questions are posted to our website.
to make their views known to us.
Key members of management, including the CEO and CFO, are Our shareholders are based across the globe.
Outside of the present and available to answer questions.
The External Auditor Annual General Meeting AGM, the Board uses a range of formal attends the AGMs and is also available to answer questions.
and informal communication channels to understand shareholder Proceedings at shareholder meetings are webcast live from our views to ensure it can represent shareholders in governing website.
Copies of the speeches delivered by the Chairman and the business.
Regular proactive engagement with institutional CEO to the AGMs are released to the stock exchanges and posted shareholders and investor representative organisations takes to our website.
A summary of proceedings and the outcome of place in Australia, South Africa, the United Kingdom and voting on the items of business are released to the relevant stock the United States.
This is led by: exchanges and posted to our website as soon as they are available The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretariat team following the completion of the BHP Billiton Limited meeting.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman and Senior Independent Director governance and remuneration.
5.3 Role and responsibilities of the Board The Chief Executive Officer CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO, The Boards role is to represent the shareholders.
It is accountable management and Investor Relations team strategy, financial to them for creating and delivering value through the effective and operating performance.
Important briefings are webcast governance of the business.
This role requires a high-performing live from our website.
Board, with all Directors contributing to the Boards collective In addition, shareholders can contact us at any time through decision-making processes.
our Investor Relations team, with contact details available The Board Governance Document is a statement of the practices on our website.
and processes the Board has adopted to discharge its responsibilities.
Feedback from shareholders is regularly reported to the Board.
It includes the processes the Board has implemented to undertake Shareholder and analyst feedback is shared with the Board through its own tasks and activities: the matters it has reserved for its own the Chairman, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consideration and decision-making: the authority it has delegated also the Senior Independent Director, other Directors, the CEO to the CEO, including the limits on the way in which the CEO can and the CFO.
In addition, the Investor Relations team provides execute that authority: and provides guidance on the relationship regular reports to the Board on shareholder feedback and analysis.
between the Board and the CEO.
This approach provides a robust mechanism to ensure Directors The Board Governance Document also specifies the role are aware of issues raised and have a good understanding of the Chairman, the membership of the Board and the role of current shareholder views.
and conduct of Non-executive Directors.
Further information Annual General Meeting is at sections 5.4 to 5.7.
The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions of the Board.
Our Dual Listed Company DLC structure means that we hold two The Board Governance Document is available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com home aboutus ourcompany AGMs each year.
The AGMs are important dates in the BHP Billiton calendar.
In October each year, the BHP Billiton Plc meeting is held Pages governance.
in the United Kingdom, and in November, the BHP Billiton Limited meeting is held in Australia.
These meetings provide an update for Allocation of decision-making authority shareholders on the Groups performance and offer an opportunity The matters that the Board has specifically reserved for its for shareholders to ask questions and vote.
Shareholders vote decision are: on important matters affecting the business, including the election the appointment of the CEO and approval of the appointments of Directors, any changes to our constitutional documents, the of direct reports to the CEO: receipt of annual financial statements and incentive arrangements approval of the overall strategy and annual budgets of the business: for the Executive Director.
Shareholders may appoint proxies determination of matters in accordance with the approved electronically through our website, and the Notice of Meeting delegations of authority: describes how this can be done.
As described above, a key part of our approach to governance is that shareholders views are formal determinations that are required by the Groups constitutional documents, by statute or by other external heard and understood.
The AGM provides an important forum to enable this.
SHAREHOLDER FEEDBACK Regular investor meetings CHAIRMAN SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Correspondence BOARD Regular investor meetings CEO, CFO, MANAGEMENT AND INVESTOR RELATIONS Correspondence Annual General Meeting AGM BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 111
