1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report We transport concentrate from Leinster, Mt Keith and Kambalda 2.2.
6 Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group to our Kalgoorlie smelter, where it is processed into nickel matte, Our Stainless Steel Materials CSG is primarily a supplier of nickel to containing approximately 67 per cent nickel.
In FY2012, we the stainless steel industry.
Nickel is an important component of the exported approximately 48 per cent of our nickel matte production.
most commonly used types of stainless steel.
We also supply nickel We processed the remaining nickel matte at our Kwinana nickel to other markets, including the specialty alloy, foundry, chemicals refinery, which produces nickel metal in the form of LME grade and refractory material industries.
We are the worlds fifth-largest briquettes, and nickel powder together with a range of saleable producer of nickel and we sell our nickel products under a mix of by-products.
long-term, medium-term and spot volume contracts, with prices linked to the LME nickel price.
Nickel West production in FY2012 was 109 kt of contained nickel.
Our nickel business comprises two Assets: During FY2012, the Nickel West Kwinana hydrogen plant was successfully commissioned following a restriction in hydrogen Nickel West supply, which impacted production of nickel metal from the Nickel West is the name for our wholly owned Western Australian Kwinana nickel refinery.
nickel asset, which consists of an integrated system of mines, concentrators, a smelter and a refinery.
We mine nickel-bearing Cerro Matoso sulphide ore at our Mt Keith, Leinster and Cliffs Operations north Cerro Matoso, our 99.94 per cent owned nickel asset in Colombia, of Kalgoorlie.
We operate concentrator plants at Mt Keith and combines a lateritic nickel ore deposit with a ferronickel smelter.
at Leinster, which also concentrate ore from Cliffs.
Leinster and Cerro Matoso is the worlds second-largest producer of ferronickel Mt Keith have reserve lives of eight and 13 years, respectively, and is one of the lowest-cost producers of ferronickel.
The smelter both have options for further expansion.
The Mt Keith Talc Redesign produces high-purity, low-carbon ferronickel granules.
Cerro Matoso project, which enables the processing of talc bearing ore, was has an estimated current reserve life of 32 years.
Production in successfully commissioned in December 2011.
Cliffs is a high-grade FY2012 was 48.9 kt of nickel in ferronickel form following the underground mine with a reserve life of three years.
successful early completion of the planned furnace replacement.
We also operate the Kambalda concentrator south of Kalgoorlie, Cerro Matoso operates under mining concessions that are due where we source ore through tolling and concentrate purchase to expire on 30 September 2012 and has applied, in accordance arrangements with third parties in the Kambalda region.
We also with the law and its contracts, for an extension of these mining have purchase agreements in place for the direct purchase concessions.
If this extension is not granted, Cerro Matoso has an of concentrate, which we re-pulp, dry and blend with other underlying agreement with the Colombian Government that grants concentrate processed at Kambalda.
it the rights to continue mining and producing through to 2029 under a mining arrangement, with a further extension of 15 years possible.
Information on Stainless Steel Materials mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserve tables see section 2.13.2.
Mine Type & Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Use Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source & Condition Nickel Mt Keith Western Private road 100% BHP Billiton Leases over Officially Open-cut On-site third Concentration Australia the land from commissioned party gas-fired plant with a Nickel Disseminated Western Australian 1995 by WMC turbines nominal capacity: concentrate textured magmatic Government 11.5 mtpa of ore transported by Mt Keith was nickel-sulphide Natural gas road to Leinster Key leases expire acquired as part mineralisation, sourced and nickel operations 20132033 of acquisition of associated with a transported for drying and WMC in 2005 metamorphosed under separate Renewals at on-shipping ultramafic intrusion long-term government contracts discretion Leinster Western Public road 100% BHP Billiton Leases over Production Underground and On-site third Concentration Australia the land from commenced 1979 open-cut party gas-fired plant with a Nickel Western Australian turbines nominal capacity: concentrate Leinster was Steeply dipping Government 3 mtpa of ore shipped by road acquired as part disseminated and Natural gas and rail to Key leases expire of acquisition of massive textured sourced and Kalgoorlie nickel 20132031 WMC in 2005 nickel-sulphide transported smelter mineralisation, under separate Renewals at associated with long-term government metamorphosed contracts discretion ultramafic lava flows and intrusions Cliffs Western Private road 100% BHP Billiton Leases over Production Underground Supplied from Mine site Australia the land from commenced 2008 Mt Keith Nickel ore Steeply dipping Western Australian transported by Cliffs was massive textured Government road to Leinster acquired as part nickel-sulphide nickel operations Key leases expire of acquisition mineralisation, for further 20252028 of WMC in 2005 associated with processing metamorphosed Renewals at ultramafic government lava flows discretion BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 29
