2 Information on the Company continued NWS Other Persephone Greater Western Flank 2 2.2.
2 Petroleum Customer Sector Group continued Planning is underway for the development of the Persephone field South Africa and Greater Western Flank 2.
The Persephone field is located near In September 2010, we entered into exploration agreements for existing NWS infrastructure, approximately eight kilometres northeast two blocks offshore South Africa.
We own and operate a 60 per cent of the North Rankin A platform.
Greater Western Flank 2 represents interest in Block 3A 4A, and a 90 per cent interest in block 3B 4B.
the second phase of development of the core Greater Western The remaining interest in Block 3A 4A is held by PetroSA 30 per cent Flank fields, behind the GWF-A development, which are located to and Sasol Petroleum International 10 per cent.
Global Offshore Oil the southwest of the existing Goodwyn A platform.
Woodside is the Exploration South Africa holds a 10 per cent interest in Block 3B 4B.
operator and we own a 16.67 per cent share of both Persephone The minimum work program includes the drilling of one exploration and Greater Western Flank 2. well within each block.
United States Trinidad and Tobago Shenzi Water Injection We have a 45 per cent interest in the Greater Angostura Joint Venture with our partners Total 30 per cent interest and Chaoyang The Shenzi Water Injection program includes drilling and completion of five water injection wells and provides facilities to inject up 25 per cent interest.
In July 2011, the Canteen North 1 well was drilled within the producing Block 2c area.
The well encountered to 125 Mbbl d of water at 7,000 pounds per square inch psi.
The program was approved as part of the original sanctioned hydrocarbons and was plugged and abandoned.
The fault block is being evaluated to determine development potential.
Shenzi project which began production in 2009 to supplement aquifer pressure for additional recovery.
To date, Water Injector Drilling WI #1 has been drilled and completed and WI #2 has been drilled.
The number of wells in the process of being drilled including Planning for the completion of WI #2 and drilling of WI #3 is underway.
temporarily suspended wells and excluding wells drilled and Atlantis South Water Injection completed in FY2012 as of 30 June 2012 was as follows: The Atlantis South Water Injection project is in the execution phase Exploratory wells Development Wells Total and involves drilling four subsea water injectors, tying them into 1 1 1 the existing infrastructure and commissioning the 75 Mbbl d Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net of water injection facilities.
This water injection project mitigates Australia natural production decline due to low aquifer pressure.
BP is the United States 4 2 305 136 309 138 operator and we hold a 44 per cent working interest.
Other 1 1 1 1 Mad Dog Phase 2 Total 4 2 306 137 310 139 In April 2012, we announced approval for US$708 million BHP Billiton share in pre-commitment funding for the Mad Dog 1 Represents our share of the gross well count.
The Mad Dog Phase 2 project is in response to the Other significant activities successful Mad Dog South appraisal well, which confirmed significant hydrocarbons in the southern portion of the Mad Dog field.
Mad Dog Australia Phase 2 will be a spar development with all subsea production and Browse injection wells and includes water injection capability to provide The Browse LNG Development comprises development of support to the east, west and south of the field.
the Torosa, Brecknock and Calliance gas fields, which were discovered in 1971, 1979, and 2000, respectively.
The fields are Delivery commitments located approximately 440 kilometres north-northwest of Broome, We have delivery commitments of natural gas and LNG of Western Australia in water depths up to 800 metres.
Evaluation approximately 3,286 billion cubic feet through 2031 72 per cent of the in-place resources continues together with definition of Australia and 28 per cent Other and crude, condensate and NGL the on and offshore facilities required to extract hydrocarbons commitments of 532.7 million barrels through 2023 94 per cent and produce and export LNG.
United States, five per cent Australia and one per cent Other.
We have sufficient proved reserves and production capacity Woodside is the operator and we own 8.33 per cent of the East to fulfil these delivery commitments.
Further information can Browse resources and 20 per cent of West Browse.
Longford The Longford Gas Conditioning Plant LGCP Project will enable 2.2.
3 Aluminium Customer Sector Group the production of Turrum reserves plus the production of Kipper Our Aluminium CSG is a portfolio of assets at three stages of the and other undeveloped high-carbon dioxide content resources.
aluminium value chain: mining bauxite, refining bauxite into alumina, The project scope includes a carbon dioxide extraction facility, and smelting alumina into aluminium metal.
We are the worlds brownfield tie-ins, an electrical upgrade and multiple supporting eighth-largest producer of aluminium, with total production in utilities.
Esso is the operator of LGCP, owning a 50 per cent FY2012 of 1.2 million tonnes Mt of aluminium.
We also produced interest and BHP Billiton owns the remaining 50 per cent.
12.8 Mt of bauxite and 4.2 Mt of alumina.
Scarborough During FY2012, we consumed 34 per cent of our alumina production in our aluminium smelters and sold the balance to other smelters.
Development planning for the large Scarborough gas field offshore Western Australia is in progress.
We continue to evaluate Our alumina sales are a mixture of long-term contract sales at LME-linked prices and spot sales at negotiated prices.
Prices for development options for a LNG plant and offshore production facilities.
Esso is the operator of the WA-1-R lease and we hold our aluminium sales are generally linked to prevailing LME prices.
We are the operator and have Boddington Worsley a 100 per cent working interest in the WA-346-P block.
Boddington Worsley is an integrated bauxite mining alumina Greater Western FlankA refining operation.
The Boddington bauxite mine in Western Australia supplies bauxite ore to the Worsley alumina refinery via The Greater Western FlankA GWFA gas project was approved a 62-kilometre long conveying system.
We own 86 per cent of the by the Board in November 2011 to recover gas from the near field mine and the refinery.
It is our sole integrated bauxite mining alumina Goodwyn H and Tidepole fields.
The project consists of a five well refining asset.
Worsley, one of the largest and lowest-cost refineries subsea tie-back of the Goodwyn H and Tidepole fields to the Goodwyn in the world, is currently in the ramp-up phase of a major expansion A platform.
The Goodwyn A platform is located in 130 metres of see Development projects below.
Our share of Worsleys FY2012 water, approximately 130 kilometres offshore from Karratha on the production was 2.9 Mt of alumina.
Worsleys export customers northwest coast of Australia.
The development is estimated to have include our own Hillside, Bayside and Mozal smelters in southern the potential to provide gross sales of 30 MMboe BHP Billiton share, Africa.
Boddington has a reserve life of 18 years.
including condensate and liquefied gas.
Woodside is the operator and we own a 16.67 per cent share.
22 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report per annum ktpa makes it the largest aluminium smelter in the 2.2.
3 Aluminium Customer Sector Group continued southern hemisphere.
Following the mothballing of the potlines Minerao Rio do Norte B and C in support of a national energy conservation scheme, We own 14.8 per cent of Minerao Rio do Norte MRN, Bayside has reduced smelting capacity to approximately 95 ktpa which owns and operates a large bauxite mine in Brazil.
Hillside imports alumina from our Worsley refinery.
Alumar Both Hillside and Bayside source power from Eskom, the South Alumar is an integrated alumina refinery aluminium smelter.
African state utility, under long-term contracts with prices linked We own 36 per cent of the Alumar refinery and 40 per cent of the to the LME price of aluminium except for Hillside Potline 3, smelter.
The operations, and their the price of which is linked to the South African and US producer integrated port facility, are located at So Lus in the Maranho price indices.
Potline capacity was impacted as a result of major province of Brazil.
Alumar sources bauxite from MRN.
During FY2012, unplanned outage in the March 2012 quarter.
approximately 27 per cent of Alumars alumina production was used Mozal to feed the smelter, while the remainder was exported.
Our share We own 47.1 per cent of and operate the Mozal aluminium smelter of Alumars FY2012 saleable production was 1,235 kilotonnes kt in Mozambique, which has a total capacity of approximately of alumina and 170 kt of aluminium.
Mozal sources power generated by Hydro Cahora Basa Hillside and Bayside via Motraco, a transmission joint venture between Eskom and Our Hillside and Bayside smelters are located at Richards Bay, the national electricity utilities of Mozambique and Swaziland.
Hillsides capacity of approximately 715 kilotonnes Our share of Mozals FY2012 production was 264 kt.
Information on Aluminium mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserve tables see section 2.13.2.
Mine Type & Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source Use & Condition Bauxite Boddington bauxite mine Boddington, Public road BHP Billiton 86% BHP Billiton Mining leases from Opened 1983 Open-cut JV owned Crushing plant 123 km Ore transported Worsley Western Australia powerline Nominal capacity: Sojitz Alumina Significantly Surficial southeast of to Worsley Alumina Government expire connected 19 mtpa bauxite extended 2000 gibbsite-rich 4% Perth, Western alumina refinery Pty Ltd over the period to Worsley lateritic Japan Alumina Australia by a 62 km 20142032, all alumina weathering Associates 10% conveyor with 21-year refinery site of Darling Ownership renewal available Range rocks structure of 2 sub-leases from operator as per Alcoa of Australia Worsley JV Minerao Rio do Norte Porto Sealed road and BHP Billiton MRN Mining rights Production Open-cut On-site fuel Crushing facilities, Trombetas, rail connects 14.8% granted by Brazilian commenced oil generators long distance Lateritic Par, Brazil mine area with Government until 1979 conveyors, Alcoa and weathering Porto Trombetas reserves exhausted wash plant affiliates 18.2% Expanded 2003 of nepheline village, accessed Vale 40% syenite occurring Nominal capacity: by air or river Rio Tinto primarily as 18 mtpa washed Alcan 12% gibbsite in a clay bauxite matrix overlain Votorantim 10% Village and airport by clay sediments Hydro 5% Drying and ship loading facilities near Porto Trombetas Information on Aluminium smelters and refineries Smelter, Refinery Title, Leases Nominal Production or Processing Plant Location Ownership Operator or Options Product Capacity Power Source Aluminium and alumina Hillside Aluminium smelter Richards Bay, 100% BHP Billiton Freehold title Standard 715 ktpa primary Eskom national 200 km north to property, aluminium ingots aluminium power supplier under of Durban, plant, equipment long-term contracts KwaZulu-Natal Leases over Contract prices for province, harbour facilities Hillside 1 and 2 linked South Africa to LME aluminium price Prices for Hillside 3 linked to SA and US producer price index Bayside Aluminium smelter Richards Bay, 100% BHP Billiton Freehold title Primary aluminium, 95 ktpa primary Eskom, under 200 km north to property, slab products aluminium on long-term contract of Durban, plant, equipment remaining Potline A Contract price linked South Africa to LME aluminium price BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 23
