D E L E G A T I O N 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.13.4 Sustainability Committee Report Role and focus The Sustainability Committee met seven times during the year.
Information on meeting attendance by Committee members The role of the Sustainability Committee is to assist the Board is included in the table in section 5.11. in its oversight of: the effectiveness of the Groups strategies, policies During the year, the Sustainability Committee continued to and systems associated with Health, Safety, Environment assist the Board in its oversight of HSEC issues and performance.
and Community HSEC matters: This included consideration of strategic environmental issues, our compliance with applicable legal and regulatory HSEC audits and trends, and identifying and implementing findings requirements associated with HSEC matters: from accidents and other incidents.
The Committee considered climate change scenarios and the actions being taken to manage our performance in relation to HSEC matters: the implications of climate change regulation.
The Committee the performance and leadership of the HSEC function: reviewed and recommended to the Board the approval of the HSEC risks and the performance requirements described annual Sustainability Report for publication.
The Sustainability in our Group Level Documents GLDs to control HSEC risks: Report identifies our targets for HSEC matters and our performance our annual Sustainability Report: against those targets, with an emphasis on fact based measurement communication to shareholders regarding the work and quality data in setting targets.
The Committee reviewed and of the Committee on behalf of the Board.
recommended to the Board the public targets for FY2013FY2017.
Finally, the Committee oversaw the appointment of a new Head Our approach to sustainability is reflected in Our BHP Billiton of HSEC, with the appointment continuing the Groups practice Charter, which defines our values, purpose and how we measure of bringing an asset president with deep operational experience success, and in our sustainable development policy, which defines into this key role.
our public commitments to safety, health and environmental and social responsibility.
Further information is set out in the Groups Sustainability Report.
The Committee provides oversight of the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report A copy of the Sustainability Report and further by management, including oversight of internal control systems information can be found on our website at relevant to the preparation of the Sustainability Report.
com home aboutus sustainability Pages default.
The role of the Sustainability Committee in the context of BHP Billitons broader governance framework is summarised Sustainability Committee members during the year in the diagram below.
Name Status BHP Billiton governance structure Sustainability Committee John Schubert Chairman Member for whole period SHAREHOLDERS Malcolm Broomhead Member for whole period Keith Rumble Member for whole period Committee evaluation During FY2011, the Committee retained the services of an external adviser to assist with an assessment of the Committees effectiveness, and this review continued into FY2012.
The Committee also reviewed its performance in accordance with its terms of reference.
As a result of this evaluation, the Committee is satisfied it has met its terms of reference.
Sustainable development governance Our approach to HSEC and sustainable development governance is characterised by: the Sustainability Committee overseeing material HSEC matters and risks across the Group: business line management having primary responsibility and accountability for HSEC performance: the HSEC function providing advice and guidance directly, as well as through a series of networks across the business: seeking input and insight from external experts such as our Forum for Corporate Responsibility: clear links between remuneration and HSEC performance.
