2 Information on the Company continued and a series of liquefied natural gas LNG expansion phases supplying 2.2 Business overview LNG to buyers in Japan, Korea and China under a series of long-term 2.2.
The project also produces LPG and condensate.
Since 29 June 2001, we have operated under a Dual Listed Company We are also a joint venture participant in four nearby oil fields.
Under the DLC structure, the two parent companies, Both the North West Shelf gas and oil ventures are operated BHP Billiton Limited formerly BHP Limited and before that by Woodside.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Australia operated formerly Billiton Plc operate as a single economic entity, run by a unified Board and management team.
More details of the DLC We operate two oil fields offshore Western Australia and one gas structure are located under section 2.10 of this Report.
BHP Billiton Limited was incorporated in 1885 and is registered The Pyrenees oil development consists of three fields, two of which in Australia with ABN 49 004 028 077.
BHP Billiton Plc was Crosby and Stickle are located in blocks WA-42-L 71.43 per cent incorporated in 1996 and is registered in England and Wales interest, while the third Ravensworth straddles blocks WA-42-L with registration number 3196209.
Successive predecessor and WA-43-L 40 per cent interest.
The project uses a FPSO facility.
entities to BHP Billiton Plc have operated since 1860.
The Stybarrow operation 50 per cent BHP Billiton share is an oil The registered office of BHP Billiton Limited is 180 Lonsdale Street, development located offshore Western Australia.
The project uses Melbourne, Victoria 3000, Australia, and its telephone number a FPSO facility.
is 1300 55 47 57 within Australia or 61 3 9609 3333 outside The Minerva operation 90 per cent BHP Billiton share is a gas Australia.
The registered office of BHP Billiton Plc is Neathouse field located offshore Victoria.
The operation consists of two subsea Place, London SW1V 1BH, United Kingdom, and its telephone producing wells which pipe gas onshore to a processing plant.
Our agent for service in the The gas is delivered into a pipeline and sold domestically.
United States is Maria Isabel Reuter at 1360 Post Oak Boulevard, Gulf of Mexico Suite 150, Houston, TX 77056.
We operate two fields in the Gulf of Mexico Neptune and Shenzi 2.2.
2 Petroleum Customer Sector Group and hold non-operating interests in a further three fields Atlantis, Our Petroleum Customer Sector Group CSG comprises a base Mad Dog and Genesis.
We divested our interest in the West Cameron of onshore and offshore operations that are located in six countries and Starlifter areas in June 2012.
We also own 25 per cent and throughout the world.
We explore for significant upstream 22 per cent, respectively, of the companies that own and operate opportunities around the world.
the Caesar oil pipeline and the Cleopatra gas pipeline which transport oil and gas from the Green Canyon area, where a number Petroleum continues to invest through economic cycles and maintains of our fields are located, to connecting pipelines that transport a long-term view.
The acquisition of Petrohawk Energy Corporation product to the mainland.
We deliver our oil production to refineries was completed in FY2012 at a purchase price of US$12.0 billion, along the Gulf Coast of the United States.
excluding the assumption of net debt of US$3.8 billion, and provided us with operating positions in the Eagle Ford, Haynesville and Onshore US Permian fields in the United States.
Combined with our interests in We operate in four shale fields located onshore in the United States the Fayetteville field, acquired from Chesapeake Energy Corporation Fayetteville, Eagle Ford, Haynesville and Permian.
in the third quarter of FY2011, oil and gas operations in these fields constitute our Onshore US business.
We will continue to evaluate The combined leasehold acreage of the Onshore US fields other commercial opportunities for growth, including through is approximately 1.6 million net acres in the states of Texas, acquisitions, in the future.
Our ownership interests range from less than one per cent to 100 per cent.
Working interest will During FY2012, total production increased by 40 per cent from change due to events such as a partys non-consent election, the prior year to 222.3 million barrels of oil equivalent MMboe.
or through farm-ins and farm-outs with other parties.
Production from our Onshore US business, strong uptime performance from existing operated assets and the first full year of production In FY2012, the Onshore US business delivered 6.9 million barrels of crude oil and condensates, 448 billion cubic feet of natural gas from the Angostura gas facility Trinidad and Tobago largely offset reduced production caused by maintenance activity and adverse and 4.0 million barrels of natural gas liquids.
Our Onshore US total production increased by 80 MMboe from 6 MMboe in FY2011 to weather at our non-operated offshore Gulf of Mexico, United States, and North West Shelf, Australia, fields and natural field decline 86 MMboe in FY2012, which more than accounted for the 63 MMboe increase in total production.
at our operated Pyrenees facility.
We remain committed to organic growth opportunities through Due to the low price of US natural gas in FY2012, the capital exploration, using the latest seismic and geophysical technology expenditure in the Onshore US business in the second half to locate new resources and yield results.
In FY2012, we executed of the financial year was focused on the liquids-rich Eagle Ford a major international drilling campaign focused on proven basins and Permian fields, both in Texas.
Consequently, we reduced the in Southeast Asia, Western Australia and the Gulf of Mexico.
development of the dry gas assets in Haynesville and Fayetteville fields in the second half of FY2012.
The mix of liquids and gas Our production operations are as follows: development opportunities in all four fields provides us with the Bass Strait flexibility to adjust our onshore development program towards Together with our 5050 joint venture partner, Esso Australia those operations with the highest return on investment.
a subsidiary of ExxonMobil, we have been producing oil and gas Liverpool Bay and Bruce Keith from Bass Strait, off the south-eastern coast of Australia, for over The Liverpool Bay, United Kingdom, integrated development 40 years, having participated in the original discovery of hydrocarbons consists of five producing offshore gas and oil fields in the Irish in 1965.
We dispatch the majority of our Bass Strait crude oil and Sea, the Point of Ayr onshore processing plant in north Wales, condensate production to refineries along the east coast of and associated infrastructure.
We deliver the Liverpool Bay Australia.
Gas is piped onshore to our Longford processing facility, gas by pipeline to E. ONs Connahs Quay power station.
from which we sell our production to domestic distributors under contracts with periodic price reviews.
We own 46.1 per cent of and operate Liverpool Bay.
We also hold a 16 per cent non-operating interest in the Bruce oil and gas field North West Shelf in the North Sea and operate the Keith field 31.83 per cent share, We are a joint venture participant in the North West Shelf Project a subsea tie-back, which is processed via the Bruce platform facilities.
The North West Shelf Project was developed in phases: the domestic gas phase supplies gas to the Western Australian domestic market mainly under long-term contracts, 16 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012
