11 Shareholder information continued 11.5 American Depositary Receipts fees and charges We have American Depositary Receipts ADR programs for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
Depositary fees Citibank serves as the depositary bank for both of our ADR programs.
ADR holders agree to the terms in the deposit agreement filed with the SEC for depositing ADSs or surrendering shares for cancellation and for certain services as provided by Citibank.
Holders are required to pay all fees for general depositary services provided by Citibank in each of our ADR programs, as set forth in the tables below.
Standard depositary fees: Depositary service Fee payable by the ADR holders Issuance of ADSs upon deposit of Shares Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof issued Delivery of Deposited Securities against surrender of ADSs Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof surrendered Distribution of Cash Distributions No fee Corporate actions depositary fees: Depositary service Fee payable by the ADR holders Cash Distributions i. e. sale of rights, other entitlements, return of capital Up to US$2.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof held Distribution of ADSs pursuant to exercise of rights to purchase additional ADSs.
Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof held Excludes stock dividends and stock splits Distribution of securities other than ADSs or rights to purchase additional ADSs Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof held i. e. spin-off shares Distribution of ADSs pursuant to an ADR ratio change in which shares are not distributed No fee Fees payable by the Depositary to the Issuer iii an estate the income of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its source: or Citibank has provided BHP Billiton net reimbursement of US$1.6 million in FY2012 for ADR program-related expenses iv a trust: for both of BHP Billitons ADR programs FY2011 US$2.0 million.
a if a court within the US is able to exercise primary supervision ADR program-related expenses include legal and accounting over its administration and one or more US persons have the fees, listing fees, expenses related to investor relations in the authority to control all of its substantial decisions: or United States, fees payable to service providers for the distribution b that has made a valid election to be treated as a US person of material to ADR holders, expenses of Citibank as administrator for tax purposes.
of the ADS Direct Plan and expenses to remain in compliance This discussion of material tax consequences for US holders is based with applicable laws.
on the Australian, UK, US and South African laws currently in effect, Citibank has further agreed to waive other ADR program-related the published practice of tax authorities in those jurisdictions and expenses for FY2012 amounting to less than US$0.02 million the double taxation treaties and conventions currently in existence.
which are associated with the administration of the ADR programs These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
US holders in BHP Billiton Limited Our ADR programs trade on the NYSE under the stock tickers a Australian taxation BHP and BBL for the BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc In this section, references to resident and non-resident refer programs respectively.
As of 30 June 2012, there were 102,897,776 to residence status for Australian income tax purposes.
shares outstanding in the BHP Billiton Limited ADR program and 27,817,326 shares outstanding in the BHP Billiton Plc ADR program.
Dividends Both of the ADR programs have a 2:1 ordinary shares to ADR ratio.
Dividends including other distributions treated as dividends for Australian tax purposes paid by BHP Billiton Limited to an Australian resident US holder, or whose holding is effectively 11.6 Taxation connected with: The taxation discussion below describes the material Australian, a permanent establishment in Australia: or UK and US federal income tax consequences to a US holder a fixed base in Australia from which they perform personal services: of owning BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares or ADSs or may be subject to income tax.
BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares or ADSs.
The discussion below also outlines the potential South African tax issues for US holders Under the Tax Convention between Australia and the US as to the Avoidance of Double Taxation the Australian Tax Treaty, dividends of BHP Billiton Plc shares that are listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE.
paid by BHP Billiton Limited to a non-resident US holder who or which is eligible for treaty benefits therein and whose holding: The following discussion is not relevant to non-US holders is not effectively connected with a permanent establishment of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares or ADSs or BHP Billiton Plc in Australia: or ordinary shares or ADSs.
By its nature the commentary below is in the case of a non-resident US holder who performs independent of a general nature and we recommend that holders of ordinary personal services from a fixed base situated therein, is not shares or ADSs consult their own tax advisers regarding the connected with that fixed base: Australian, UK, South African and US federal, state and local tax and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary shares may be subject to Australian withholding tax at a rate not exceeding 15 per cent of such gross dividend.
For such and ADSs in their particular circumstances.
a non-resident: For purposes of this commentary, a US holder is a beneficial owner where fully franked dividends are paid to non-residents they are of ordinary shares or ADSs who is, for US federal income tax purposes: not subject to withholding tax.
The payment of Australian income i a citizen or resident alien of the US: tax by BHP Billiton Limited generates a franking credit for the ii a corporation or other entity treated as a corporation for company.
Broadly, an amount of tax paid by the company flows US federal income tax purposes that is created or organised through to shareholders as a franking credit when the company under the laws of the US or any political subdivision thereof: pays a dividend which is franked by the company.
272 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information Stamp duty, gift, estate and inheritance tax 11.6 Taxation continued Australia does not impose any stamp duty, gift, estate dividends paid to non-residents of Australia are also exempt or inheritance taxes in relation to gifts of shares or ADSs from withholding tax to the extent to which such dividends are or upon the death of a shareholder.
declared by BHP Billiton Limited to be conduit foreign income b US taxation CFI.
CFI is made up of certain amounts that are earned by BHP Billiton Limited that are not subject to tax in Australia, This section describes the material US federal income tax such as dividends remitted to Australia by foreign subsidiaries.
consequences to a US holder of owning ordinary shares or ADSs.
It applies only to ordinary shares or ADSs that are held as capital any part of a dividend paid to a US holder that is not franked assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to a holder and is not CFI will generally be subject to Australian withholding of ordinary shares or ADSs that is a member of a special class tax unless a specific exemption applies.
of holders subject to special rules, including a dealer in securities, Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs a trader in securities that elects to use a mark-to-market method A US holder who or which is a resident of Australia other than of accounting for its securities holdings, a tax-exempt organisation, certain temporary residents may be liable for income tax on any a life insurance company, a person liable for alternative minimum tax, profit on disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs, or Australian capital a person who actually or constructively owns 10 per cent or more of gains tax on any gain on disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs the voting stock of BHP Billiton Limited, a person that holds ordinary acquired after 19 September 1985. shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or conversion transaction, a person that purchases or sells ordinary shares or Income or other tax is payable on any profit on disposal of ordinary ADSs as part of a wash sale for tax purposes, or a person whose shares or ADSs held by non-resident US holder where the profit is functional currency is not the US dollar.
of an income nature and sourced in Australia, or the sale is subject to Australian capital gains tax because the ordinary shares or ADSs If a partnership holds the ordinary shares or ADSs, the US federal are taxable Australian property.
income tax treatment of a partner generally will depend on the status of the partner and the tax treatment of the partnership.
If the profit on sale is of an income nature, and the non-resident US A partner in a partnership holding the ordinary shares or ADSs holder is subject to the Australian Tax Treaty, the non-resident US should consult its tax adviser with regard to the US federal income holder should note that under the Australian Tax Treaty, Australia tax treatment of an investment in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
reserves the right to tax certain income, including: business profits of an enterprise attributable to a permanent This section is part based on the representations of the Depositary establishment situated in Australia through which the enterprise and the assumption that each obligation in the deposit agreement carries on business in Australia: and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with income from the alienation of property that forms part of the its terms.
business property of a permanent establishment an enterprise has In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a holder of ADSs will in Australia, or pertains to a fixed base available to a non-resident be treated as the owner of the ordinary shares represented by those US holder in Australia for the purpose of performing independent ADSs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs for ordinary personal services: shares, generally will not be subject to US federal income tax.
income derived from the disposition of shares in a company, Dividends the assets of which consist wholly or principally of real property Under US federal income tax laws and subject to the passive foreign which includes rights to exploit or to explore for natural resources investment company PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder must situated in Australia, whether such assets are held directly, or include in its gross income the amount of any dividend paid by indirectly through one or more interposed entities.
BHP Billiton Limited out of its current or accumulated earnings and The Australian Government has announced proposals to exempt profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes plus any certain categories of non-resident investors from tax on profits Australian tax withheld from the dividend payment even though of an income nature on disposals of portfolio interests in Australian the holder does not receive it.
The dividend is taxable to the holder public companies, including where ordinary shares or ADSs are held when the holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the Depositary, through a non-resident managed fund, with effect from 1 July 2011 in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the dividend.
However, these reforms are not yet law.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder on shares or ADSs If the profit on sale is not of an income nature, there will be no in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2013 will be taxable liability to tax unless capital gains tax applies.
Australian capital at the rate applicable to long-term capital gains generally at a rate gains tax will not generally apply to a disposal of the ordinary shares of 15 per cent provided that the US holder holds the shares or ADSs or ADSs by a non-resident US holder unless the shares or ADSs have for more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days been acquired after 19 September 1985 and: before the ex-dividend date and does not enter into certain risk the ordinary shares or ADSs have been used by the US holder reduction transactions with respect to the shares or ADSs during in carrying on a trade or business through a permanent the abovementioned holding period.
In addition, a non-corporate establishment in Australia: or US holder that elects to treat the dividend income as investment the US holder together with associates directly or indirectly income pursuant to Section 163 d 4 of the US Internal Revenue owns or owned 10 per cent or more of the issued share capital Code will not be eligible for the reduced rate of taxation.
In the case of BHP Billiton Limited at the time of the disposal or throughout of a corporate US holder, dividends on shares and ADSs are taxed a 12-month period during the two years prior to the time of as ordinary income and will not be eligible for the dividends received disposal and, at the time of the disposal, the sum of the market deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends values of BHP Billiton Limiteds assets that are taxable Australian received from other US corporations.
real property held directly or through interposed entities exceeds Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and the sum of the market values of BHP Billiton Limiteds assets profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will held directly or through interposed entities that are not taxable be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the Australian real property at that time real property, for these holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares purposes, includes mining, quarrying or prospecting rights or ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain.
in respect of minerals, petroleum or quarry materials situated in Australia : or The amount of any cash distribution paid in any foreign currency will be equal to the US dollar value of such currency, calculated the US holder is an individual who elected on becoming by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date such distribution a non-resident of Australia to continue to have the ordinary is received by the US holder or, in the case of ADSs, by the Depositary, shares or ADSs subject to Australian capital gains tax.
regardless of whether and when the foreign currency is in fact converted into US dollars.
If the foreign currency is converted into BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 273 11 Shareholder information continued taxable at rates applicable to ordinary income.
Assuming the shares 11.6 Taxation continued or ADSs are marketable stock, a US holder may mitigate the adverse US dollars on the date received, the US holder generally should tax consequences described above by electing to be taxed annually not recognise foreign currency gain or loss on such conversion.
on a mark-to-market basis with respect to such shares or ADSs.
If the foreign currency is not converted into US dollars on the date US Holders in BHP Billiton Plc received, the US holder will have a basis in the foreign currency a UK taxation equal to its US dollar value on the date received, and generally will recognise foreign currency gain or loss on a subsequent conversion Dividends or other disposal of such currency.
Such foreign currency gain or loss Under UK law, no UK tax is required to be withheld at source generally will be treated as US source ordinary income or loss.
from dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs.
Subject to certain limitations, Australian tax withheld in accordance Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs with the Australian Treaty and paid over to Australia will be creditable US holders will not be liable for UK tax on capital gains realised against an individuals US federal income tax liability.
Special rules on disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs unless: apply in determining the foreign tax credit limitation with respect they are resident or ordinarily resident in the UK: or to dividends that are taxed at the capital gains rate.
To the extent they carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a refund of the tax withheld is available to a US holder under a branch or agency for the year in which the disposal occurs Australian law or under the Australian Treaty, the amount of tax and the shares or ADSs have been used, held or acquired for withheld that is refundable will not be eligible for credit against the the purposes of such trade or profession or vocation, branch holders US federal income tax liability.
A US holder that does not elect or agency.
In the case of a trade, the term branch includes to claim a US foreign tax credit may instead claim a deduction for a permanent establishment.
Australian income tax withheld, but only for a taxable year in which the US holder elects to do so with respect to all foreign income taxes An individual who ceases to be a resident in the UK for tax purposes paid or accrued in such taxable year.
while owning shares or ADSs and then disposes of those shares or ADSs while not a UK resident may become subject to UK tax on capital Dividends will be income from sources outside the US, and generally gains if he she subsequently becomes treated as a UK resident again will be passive category income or, for certain taxpayers, general before five complete UK tax years of non-UK residence have elapsed category income, which are treated separately from each other from the date he she left the UK.
In this situation US holders will for the purpose of computing the foreign tax credit allowable to generally be entitled to claim US tax paid on such a disposition a US holder.
In general, a taxpayers ability to use foreign tax credits as a credit against any corresponding UK tax payable.
may be limited and is dependent on the particular circumstances.
US holders should consult their own tax advisers with respect UK inheritance tax to these matters.
Under the current UKUS Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty, ordinary shares or ADSs held by a US holder who is domiciled for the purposes Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs of the UKUS Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty in the US, and is not for Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder who sells the purposes of the UKUS Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty a national or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will recognise of the UK, will generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax on a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to the individuals death or on a chargeable gift of the ordinary shares the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised or ADSs during the individuals lifetime, provided that any applicable and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in those ordinary US federal gift or estate tax liability is paid, unless the ordinary shares or ADSs.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from shares or ADSs are part of the business property of a permanent sources within the US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
establishment of the individual in the UK or, in the case of The capital gain of a non-corporate US holder is generally taxed a shareholder who performs independent personal services, pertain at preferential rates where the holder has a holding period greater to a fixed base situated in the UK.
Where the ordinary shares or ADSs than 12 months in the shares or ADSs sold.
There are limitations have been placed in trust by a settlor who, at the time of settlement, on the deductibility of capital losses.
was a US resident shareholder, the ordinary shares or ADSs will The US dollar value of any foreign currency received upon a sale generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax unless the settlor, or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs will be calculated at the time of settlement, was not domiciled in the US and was a UK by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date of sale or other national.
In the exceptional case where the ordinary shares or ADSs disposal or, in the case of a cash basis or electing accrual basis are subject to both UK inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate taxpayer, on the settlement date.
A US holder will have a tax basis tax, the UKUS Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty generally provides in the foreign currency received equal to that US dollar amount, and for double taxation to be relieved by means of credit relief.
generally will recognise foreign currency gain or loss on a subsequent UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax conversion or other disposal of the foreign currency.
This foreign Under applicable legislation, UK stamp duty or stamp duty currency gain or loss generally will be treated as US source ordinary reserve tax SDRT is, subject to certain exemptions, payable income or loss.
on any issue or transfer of shares to the Depositary or their Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules nominee where those shares are for inclusion in the ADR program We do not believe that the BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares at a rate of 1.5 per cent of their price if issued, the amount or ADSs will be treated as stock of a PFIC for US federal income tax of any consideration provided if transferred on sale or their purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is made value if transferred for no consideration.
However, from 1 October annually at the end of the year and thus may be subject to change.
2009, this 1.5 per cent charge has generally ceased to apply to If BHP Billiton Limited were treated as a PFIC, any gain realised on the issues of shares into EU depositary receipt systems and into EU sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would in general clearance systems.
Further, the First-tier Tribunal has recently held not be treated as a capital gain.
Instead, a US holder would be treated that the 1.5 per cent SDRT charge on a transfer of shares to an as if it had realised such gain and certain excess distributions rateably issuer of American Depositary Receipts ADRs as an integral part over its holding period for the ordinary shares or ADSs and would of a fresh capital raising was incompatible with European Union be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which law.
Her Majestys Revenue and Customs has confirmed that it will the gain was allocated, together with an interest charge in respect no longer seek to impose the 1.5 per cent SDRT charge on the issue of the tax attributable to each such year.
In addition, dividends of shares to a depositary receipt issuer or a clearance service outside received with respect to ordinary shares or ADSs would not be eligible the European Union.
The law in this area may still be susceptible for the special tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income to change.
We recommend advice should be sought in relation if BHP Billiton Limited were a PFIC either in the taxable year of the to paying the 1.5 per cent SDRT or stamp duty charge in distribution or the preceding taxable year, but instead would be any circumstances.
274 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and 11.6 Taxation continued profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADS.
No UK stamp treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the holders duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADS provided that the tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares or ADSs instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all times outside and thereafter as a capital gain.
Transfers of ordinary shares to persons other than the The amount of any cash distribution paid in any foreign currency Depositary or their nominee will give rise to stamp duty or SDRT will be equal to the US dollar value of such currency, calculated at the time of transfer.
The relevant rate is currently 0.5 per cent by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date such distribution of the amount payable for the shares.
The purchaser normally pays is received by the US holder or, in the case of ADSs, by the Depositary, the stamp duty or SDRT.
regardless of whether and when the foreign currency is in fact Special rules apply to transactions involving intermediates converted into US dollars.
If the foreign currency is converted into and stock lending.
US dollars on the date received, the US holder generally should not recognise foreign currency gain or loss on such conversion.
If the b US taxation foreign currency is not converted into US dollars on the date received, This section describes the material US federal income tax the US holder will have a basis in the foreign currency equal to its consequences to a US holder of owning ordinary shares or ADSs.
US dollar value on the date received, and generally will recognise It applies only to ordinary shares or ADSs that are held as capital foreign currency gain or loss on a subsequent conversion or other assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to a holder disposal of such currency.
Such foreign currency gain or loss of ordinary shares or ADSs that is a member of a special class generally will be treated as US source ordinary income or loss.
of holders subject to special rules, including a dealer in securities, a trader in securities who elects to use a mark-to-market method Dividends will be income from sources outside the US, and generally of accounting for its securities holdings, a tax-exempt organisation, will be passive category income or, for certain taxpayers, general a life insurance company, a person liable for alternative minimum tax, category income, which are treated separately from each other a person who actually or constructively owns 10 per cent or more for the purpose of computing the foreign tax credit allowable to of the voting stock of BHP Billiton Plc, a person that holds ordinary a US holder.
In general, a taxpayers ability to use foreign tax credits shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or conversion may be limited and is dependent on the particular circumstances.
transaction, a person that purchases or sells ordinary shares or US holders should consult their own tax advisers with respect ADSs as part of a wash sale for tax purposes, or a person whose to these matters.
functional currency is not the US dollar.
Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs If a partnership holds the ordinary shares or ADSs, the US federal Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder who sells income tax treatment of a partner generally will depend on the or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will recognise status of the partner and the tax treatment of the partnership.
a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal A partner in a partnership holding the ordinary shares or ADSs to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount should consult its tax adviser with regard to the US federal income realised and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, tax treatment of an investment in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
in those ordinary shares or ADSs.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax credit This section is in part based on the representations of the Depositary limitation purposes.
The capital gain of a non-corporate US holder and the assumption that each obligation in the deposit agreement is generally taxed at preferential rates where the holder has and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with a holding period greater than 12 months in the shares or ADSs its terms.
There are limitations on the deductibility of capital losses.
In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a holder of ADSs The US dollar value of any foreign currency received upon a sale will be treated as the owner of the ordinary shares represented or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs will be calculated by those ADSs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date of sale or other for ordinary shares generally will not be subject to US federal disposal or, in the case of a cash basis or electing accrual basis income tax.
taxpayer, on the settlement date.
A US holder will have a tax basis Dividends in the foreign currency received equal to that US dollar amount, and Under US federal income tax laws and subject to the PFIC rules generally will recognise foreign currency gain or loss on a subsequent discussed below, a US holder must include in its gross income the conversion or other disposal of the foreign currency.
This foreign gross amount of any dividend paid by BHP Billiton Plc out of its currency gain or loss generally will be treated as US source ordinary current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for income or loss.
US federal income tax purposes.
The dividend is taxable to the holder Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules when the holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the Depositary, We do not believe that the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the dividend.
or ADSs will be treated as stock of a PFIC for US federal income Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder on shares or ADSs tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2013 will be taxable is made annually at the end of the year and thus may be subject at the rate applicable to long-term capital gains generally at a rate to change.
If BHP Billiton Plc were treated as a PFIC, any gain of 15 per cent provided that the US holder holds the shares or ADSs realised on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or for more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days ADSs would in general not be treated as a capital gain.
Instead, before the ex-dividend date, and does not enter into certain risk a US holder would be treated as if it had realised such gain and reduction transactions with respect to the shares or ADSs during certain excess distributions ratably over its holding period for the abovementioned holding period.
In addition, a non-corporate the ordinary shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax US holder that elects to treat the dividend income as investment rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated, income pursuant to Section 163 d 4 of the Internal Revenue Code together with an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable will not be eligible for the reduced rate of taxation.
In the case to each such year.
In addition, dividends received with respect to of a corporate US holder, dividends on shares and ADSs are taxed ordinary shares or ADSs would not be eligible for the special tax as ordinary income and will not be eligible for the dividends received rates applicable to qualified dividend income if BHP Billiton Plc deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends were a PFIC either in the taxable year of the distribution or the received from other US corporations.
preceding taxable year, but instead would be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary income.
Assuming the shares or ADSs are marketable stock, a US holder may mitigate the adverse tax consequences described above by electing to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to such shares or ADSs.
