10 Glossary Cost and freight CFR... named port of destination 10.1 Non-mining terms The seller must pay the costs and freight necessary to bring the goods A$ to the named port of destination, but the risk of loss of or damage Australian dollars being the currency of the Commonwealth to the goods, as well as any additional costs due to events occurring of Australia.
after the time the goods have been delivered on board the vessel, All Publishers Index API is transferred from the seller to the buyer when the goods pass the ships rail in the port of shipment.
The CFR term requires the seller Thermal coal price index as published by Argus Media and IHS McCloskey for: to clear the goods for shipment.
Northwestern Europe CIF  API 2 : Co-Investment Plan CIP South Africa FOB Richards Bay API 4 : Legacy employee share scheme.
Community investment American Depositary Receipt ADR Contributions made to support communities in which we operate or Instruments that trade on the NYSE.
Our contributions to community programs comprise cash, in-kind support and administration costs.
Our targeted level American Depositary Share ADS of contribution is one per cent of pre-tax profit calculated on the An American Depositary Share is a share issued under a deposit average of the previous three years pre-tax profit.
agreement that has been created to permit US-resident investors to hold shares in non-US companies and trade them on the stock Customer Sector Group CSG exchanges in the US.
One ADS is equal to two BHP Billiton Limited A product-based global business unit.
or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares.
ADSs are evidenced by American CY20XX Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, which are the instruments that trade Refers to the calendar year ending 31 December 20XX, on the NYSE.
where XX is the two-digit number of the year.
Australian Securities and Investments Commission ASIC Deferred share The Australian Government agency that enforces laws relating A nil-priced option or a conditional right to acquire a share to companies, securities, financial services and credit in order issued under the rules of the GIS.
to protect consumers, investors and creditors.
Dividend Record Date Australian Securities Exchange ASX The date, determined by a companys board of directors, ASX is a multi-asset class vertically integrated exchange group by when an investor must be recorded as an owner of shares that functions as a market operator, clearing house and payments in order to qualify for a forthcoming dividend.
It oversees compliance with its operating rules, promotes standards of corporate governance among Australias DLC listed companies and helps educate retail investors.
Australian Tax Treaty DLC merger Tax Convention between Australia and the United States as to the The Dual Listed Company merger between BHP Billiton Limited Avoidance of Double Taxation.
and BHP Billiton Plc on 29 June 2001.
BHP Billiton DLC structure Being both companies in the dual listed company structure, The corporate structure resulting from the DLC merger.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
Employee Share Plan ESP BHP Billiton Limited share A legacy employee share plan that commenced under the A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Limited.
jurisdiction of BHP Limited prior to the formation of BHP Billiton.
BHP Billiton Limited shareholders Expected value The holders of BHP Billiton Limited shares.
Expected value of a share incentive the average outcome weighted by probability.
This measure takes into account the difficulty of BHP Billiton Limited special voting share achieving performance conditions and the correlation between A single voting share issued to facilitate joint voting by these and share price appreciation.
The valuation methodology shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited on Joint Electorate Actions.
also takes into account factors such as volatility and forfeiture risk.
BHP Billiton Plc equalisation share Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI A share that has been authorised to be issued to enable An international initiative dedicated to the enhancement a distribution to be made by BHP Billiton Plc Group to the of transparency around the payments of taxes and royalties BHP Billiton Limited Group should this be required under derived from resource development.
the terms of the DLC merger.
Free on board FOB... named port of shipment BHP Billiton Plc 5.5 per cent preference share The seller delivers when the goods pass the ships rail at the named Shares that have the right to repayment of the amount paid port of shipment.
This means that the buyer has to bear all costs up on the nominal value and any unpaid dividends in priority and risks of loss of or damage to the goods from that point.
The FOB of any other class of shares in BHP Billiton Plc on a return term requires the seller to clear the goods for export.
This term can of capital or winding up.
be used only for sea or inland waterway transport.
BHP Billiton Plc share Free prior informed consent FPIC A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Plc.
A principle requiring that individuals and communities should be BHP Billiton Plc shareholders informed in appropriate, accessible language about projects that The holders of BHP Billiton Plc shares.
might take place on their land.
It also guarantees that they are given the opportunity to give or withhold their consent to BHP Billiton Plc special voting share a project before it commences.
A single voting share issued to facilitate joint voting by shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc on Joint Electorate Actions.
FY20XX Refers to the financial year ending 30 June 20XX, where XX is the Board two-digit number for the year.
The Board of Directors of BHP Billiton.
GAAP CEO Generally accepted accounting principles.
Gearing Gearing is defined as the ratio of net debt to net debt plus net assets.
262 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information Occupational exposure limit OEL 10.1 Non-mining terms continued The concentration of a substance or agent, exposure to which, Greenhouse Gas GHG according to current knowledge, should not cause adverse health For BHP Billiton reporting purposes, these are the aggregate effects nor cause undue discomfort to nearly all workers.
anthropogenic carbon dioxide equivalent emissions of carbon dioxide Occupational illness CO, methane CH, nitrous oxide N O, hydrofluorocarbons 2 4 2 An occupational illness is an illness that occurs as a consequence HFCs, perfluorocarbons PFCs and sulphur hexafluoride SF.
6 of work-related activities or exposure.
It includes acute or chronic Group illnesses or diseases, which may be caused by inhalation, BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their subsidiaries.
absorption, ingestion or direct contact.
Group Function Option Group Functions act as agents of the Group Management Committee A right to acquire a share on payment of an exercise price issued GMC.
They operate under a defined set of mandates that relate to: under the rules of the GIS.
the governance of BHP Billiton: OSHA the CEO limits established by the BHP Billiton Board: United States Government Occupational Safety and the activities necessary to improve the effectiveness of the Group.
Group Incentive Scheme GIS Performance share A short-term incentive plan under which annual incentives are A nil-priced option or a conditional right to acquire a share, subject provided through a mix of cash and employee equity.
The GIS to a Performance Hurdle, issued under the rules of the LTIP.
is currently applicable only to members of the GMC.
Performance share plan PSP Group Level Document GLD An employee share plan that commenced under the jurisdiction of The documents that give effect to the mandatory requirements BHP Limited or Billiton Plc and prior to the formation of BHP Billiton.
arising from the BHP Billiton Operating Model as approved by Legacy share scheme.
They describe the mandatory minimum performance Project investment requirements and accountabilities for definitive business obligations, Total budgeted capital expenditure on growth projects under processes, functions and activities across BHP Billiton.
2 Growth projects, Group Management Committee GMC for a full listing of these growth projects.
The executive management group within BHP Billiton as determined Quality-of-life indicators by the CEO.
Its role is defined by the GMC Terms of Reference.
Measures of peoples overall well-being including material well-being International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS standard of living and non-material components such as the quality Accounting standards as issued by the International Accounting of the environment, national security, personal safety, and political Standards Board.
JSE Quoted Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
In the context of American Depositary Shares ADS and JV listed investments, the term quoted means traded on the relevant exchange.
Resource Endowment initiative REi Key Management Personnel KMP Persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing An initiative of the International Council on Mining and Metals to enhance industrys socio-economic contribution to the countries and and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly including Executive Directors, and Non-executive Directors.
communities where organisations such as BHP Billiton operate, by better understanding the factors that either inhibit or promote social Key Performance Indicator KPI and economic development linked to large-scale mining projects.
Used to measure the performance of the Group, individual Restricted Share Scheme RSS businesses and executives in any one year.
London Metal Exchange LME A London exchange which trades metals e. g. lead, zinc, Return on capital employed ROCE Return on capital employed is calculated as earnings from operations, aluminium and nickel in forward and option markets.
excluding exceptional items and net finance costs after tax, Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP divided by average capital employed.
Average capital employed A long-term incentive plan under which awards are provided in the is calculated as net assets less net debt.
form of employee equity, with a relative TSR performance hurdle Shareplus that must be met over a five-year period before the awards vest.
The LTIP is currently applicable only to members of the GMC.
All employee share purchase plan.
LSE Significant environmental incident A significant environmental incident is an occurrence that has London Stock Exchange.
resulted in or had the potential to cause significant environmental Major capital projects harm.
Our definition of significant is conservative to ensure all Projects where the investment commitment exceeds the Group learnings are captured from relevant health, safety, environment approval threshold, or complexity or associated reputational risk and community HSEC incidents.
Such an incident is rated at level 3 or exposure necessitates review at a Group level and within the or above on the BHP Billiton HSEC Consequence Severity Table which Group investment process.
may be viewed at our website, w w w. bhpbilliton.
Market value SME regd member The market value based on closing prices, or, in instances when an Registered member of the Society of Mining, Metallurgy executive exercises and sells shares, the actual sale price achieved.
New York Mercantile Exchange NYMEX STRATE A New York physical futures exchange which trades energy Share Transactions Totally Electronic is a South African electronic commodities i. e. crude oil and natural gas and precious metals settlement and depository system for dematerialised equities.
in futures and options markets.
NYSE New York Stock Exchange.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 263 10 Glossary continued Coking coal 10.1 Non-mining terms continued Used in the manufacture of coke, which is used in the steelmaking Total recordable injury frequency TRIF process by virtue of its carbonisation properties.
Coking coal may The sum of fatalities lost-time cases restricted work cases also be referred to as metallurgical coal.
medical treatment cases x 1,000,000 actual hours worked.
Competent Person Stated in units of per million hours worked.
We adopt the United A Competent Person is a person who is a member or fellow States Government Occupational Safety and Health Administration of The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy or guidelines for the recording and reporting of occupational injury of The Australian Institute of Geoscientists or of a Recognised and illnesses.
Excludes non-operated assets and our Onshore US Overseas Professional Organisation included in a list promulgated business as explained in section 2.8. from time to time.
JORC Code, 2004 Total shareholder return TSR Condensate TSR measures the return delivered to shareholders over a certain A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in gaseous form in natural period through the change in share price and any dividends paid.
underground reservoirs, but which condense to form a liquid It is the measure used to compare BHP Billitons performance to at atmospheric conditions.
that of other relevant companies under the LTIP.
Copper cathode Underlying EBIT margin Electrolytically refined copper that has been deposited on the Calculated as Underlying EBIT as defined in section 3.3, cathode of an electrolytic bath of acidified copper sulphate excluding third party EBIT, divided by revenue net of third solution.
The refined copper may also be produced through party product revenue.
United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA Crude oil Term used when the UK Financial Services Authority FSA acts A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in liquid form in natural as the competent authority under Part VI of the UK Financial underground reservoirs, and remain liquid at atmospheric pressure Services and Markets Act FSMA.
after being produced at the well head and passing through surface United States Securities and Exchange Commission US SEC separating facilities.
US regulatory commission that aims to protect investors, maintain Cut-off grade fair, orderly and efficient markets and facilitate capital formation.
A nominated grade above which is defined some mineral aspect US$ of the reserve or resource.
For example, the lowest grade of The Groups reporting currency and the functional currency mineralised material that qualifies as economic for estimating of the majority of its operations is the US dollar, as this is assessed an Ore Reserve.
to be the principal currency of the economic environments in which CQCA they operate.
West Texas Intermediate WTI ECSA A crude stream produced in Texas and southern Oklahoma which Engineering Council of South Africa.
serves as a reference or marker for pricing a number of other crude streams and which is traded in the domestic spot market Electrowinning electrowon at Cushing, Oklahoma.
An electrochemical process in which metal is recovered by dissolving a metal within an electrolyte and plating it onto an electrode.
10.2 Mining and mining-related terms Energy coal Used as a fuel source in electrical power generation, cement 2D manufacture and various industrial applications.
may also be referred to as steaming or thermal coal.
Where sold separately, is largely ethane gas that has been liquefied Alumina through pressurisation.
One tonne of ethane is approximately Aluminium oxide Al O. Alumina is produced from bauxite equivalent to 26.8 thousand cubic feet of gas.
Alumina is then converted reduced FAusIMM in an electrolysis cell to produce aluminium metal.
Fellow of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
Ash Field Inorganic material remaining after combustion.
An area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all AusIMM grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
feature and or stratigraphic condition.
There may be two or more reservoirs in a field that are separated vertically by intervening Bauxite impervious strata, or laterally by local geologic barriers, or by both.
Reservoirs that are associated by being in overlapping or adjacent Beneficiation fields may be treated as a single or common operational field.
The The process of physically separating ore from gangue prior geological terms structural feature and stratigraphic condition are to subsequent processing of the beneficiated ore. intended to identify localised geological features as opposed to the broader terms of basins, trends, provinces, plays, areas-of-interest, Bio-leaching etc.
Use of naturally occurring bacteria to leach a metal from ore: for example, copper, zinc, uranium, nickel and cobalt from Flotation a sulphide mineral.
A method of selectively recovering minerals from finely ground ore using a froth created in water by specific reagents.
In the flotation Brownfield process, certain mineral particles are induced to float by becoming An exploration or development project located within an existing attached to bubbles of froth and the unwanted mineral particles sink.
mineral province which can share infrastructure and management with an existing operation.
Grade The relative quantity, or the percentage, of metal or mineral content Coal Reserves in an orebody.
The same meaning as Ore Reserves, but specifically concerning coal.
264 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information Mineralisation 10.2 Mining and mining-related terms continued Any single mineral or combination of minerals occurring in a mass, Greenfield or deposit, of economic interest.
The development or exploration located outside the area Mineral Resource of influence of existing mine operations infrastructure.
A concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic Head grade interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, quality and quantity The average grade of ore delivered to a process for mineral that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity Heap leach ing of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge.
A process used for the recovery of metals such as copper, nickel, uranium and gold from low-grade ores.
The crushed material is laid NAPEG on a slightly sloping, impermeable pad and leached by uniformly Northwest Territories and Nunavut Association of Professional trickling gravity fed a chemical solution through the beds to ponds.
The metals are recovered from the solution.
Natural Gas Liquids NGL Ilmenite Natural Gas Liquids, which include propane, butane and ethane.
The principle ore of titanium composed of iron, titanium Open-cut open-pit OC OP and oxygen FeTiO.
3 Surface working in which the working area is kept open to the sky.
Indicated Resource Ore Reserves That part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, densities, shape, That part of a Mineral Resource that could be economically physical characteristics, grade and mineral content can be estimated and legally extracted or produced at the time of the with a reasonable level of confidence.
Inferred Resource Permian Basin That part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, grade and The geological province known as the Permian Basin in the mineral content can be estimated with a low level of confidence.
JORC Code Probable Ore Reserves A set of minimum standards, recommendations and guidelines The economically mineable part of an Indicated, and in some for public reporting in Australasia of exploration results, mineral circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting resources and ore reserves.
The guidelines are defined by the materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the Australasian Joint Ore Reserve Committee JORC, which is sponsored material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have by the Australian mining industry and its professional organisations.
been carried out, and include consideration of and modification Kriging by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, A geostatistical method of estimating resources based marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
on a mathematical function known as a semivariogram.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that Leaching extraction could reasonably be justified JORC 2004.
The process by which a soluble metal can be economically recovered Proved oil and gas reserves from minerals in ore by dissolution.
Those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty Liquefied natural gas LNG Consists largely of methane that has been liquefied through chilling to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating and pressurisation.
One tonne of LNG is approximately equivalent to 45.9 thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence Liquefied petroleum gas LPG indicates that renewal is reasonably certain.
Consists of propane and butane and a small amount less than two per cent of ethane that has been liquefied through Proved Ore Reserves The economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource.
One tonne of LPG is approximately equivalent to 11.6 barrels.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments Loss on ignition LOI and studies have been carried out and include consideration A measure of the percentage of volatile matter liquid or gas of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, contained within a mineral or rock.
LOI is determined to calculate economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental loss in mass during pyroprocessing.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting MAIG that extraction could reasonably be justified JORC 2004.
Member of the Australian Institute of Geoscientists.
Reserve life Marketable Coal Reserves Current stated ore reserves estimate divided by the current Represents beneficiated or otherwise enhanced coal product and approved nominated production rate as at the end of the should be read in conjunction with, but not instead of, reports financial year.
Run of mine product ROM MAusIMM Product mined in the course of regular mining activities.
Member of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
Rutile Measured Resource An ore of titanium composed of titanium and oxygen TiO.
2 That part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, densities, SACNASP shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content can South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions.
be estimated with a high level of confidence.
SAIMM Metallurgical coal The Southern African Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
A broader term than coking coal, which includes all coals used in steelmaking, such as coal used for the pulverised SME regd member Registered member of the Society of Mining, Metallurgy coal injection process.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 265 10 Glossary continued Tension Leg Platform TLP 10.2 Mining and mining-related terms continued A vertically moored floating facility for production of oil and gas.
Solvent extraction Titanium Slag A method of separating one or more metals from a leach solution 85 per cent TiO smelter product.
by treating with a solvent that will extract the required metal, 2 leaving the others.
The metal is recovered from the solvent Total Coal Reserves by further treatment.
Run of mine reserves as outputs from the mining activities.
Spud Total Marketable Reserves Commence drilling of an oil or gas well.
Product reserves as outputs from processing plant which includes sizing and beneficiation.
Stockpile SP An accumulation of ore or mineral built up when demand Total Ore Reserves slackens or when the treatment plant or beneficiation equipment Proved Ore Reserves plus Probable Ore Reserves.
is incomplete or temporarily unable to process the mine output: Total Resource any heap of material formed to create a buffer for loading or other The sum of Inferred, Indicated and Measured Resources.
purposes or material dug and piled for future use.
Underground UG Tailings Natural or man-made excavation under the surface of the Earth.
Those portions of washed or milled ore that are too poor to be treated further or remain after the required metals and minerals Zircon have been extracted.
The chief ore of zirconium composed of zirconium, silicon and oxygen ZrSiO.
4 Mo MMboe 10.3 Chemical terms 10.4 Units of measure molybdenum million barrels of oil equivalent A. AI O % 2 3 Ni MMBtu available alumina percentage or per cent nickel million British thermal units Ag bbl d 1 scf of natural gas P silver barrels per day equals 1,010 Btu phosphorous AI O boe 2 3 MMcf d Pb alumina barrel of oil equivalent 6,000 million cubic feet per day lead scf of natural gas equals 1 boe Anth Mbbl d Pc anthracite dmt thousand barrels per day phosphorous in concentrate dry metric tonne Au MMbbl d R. SiO gold dmtu 2 million barrels per day reactive silica dry metric tonne cpt MMcm d S carats per tonne g t million cubic metres per day sulphur grams per tonne Cu mtpa SCu copper ha million tonnes per annum soluble copper hectare CV MW SiO calorific value 2 kcal kg megawatt silica kilocalories per kilogram Fe psi TCu iron kg tonne or kg t pounds per square inch total copper kilograms per tonne Fe O 2 3 ppm Th iron oxide km parts per million thermal coal kilometre insols scf TiO insolubles 2 kV standard cubic feet titanium oxide kilovolt K O 2 t U O potassium oxide 3 8 kt tonne uranium oxide kilotonne Met TJ VM metallurgical coal kdwt terajoule volatile matter thousand deadweight tonnes MgO TJ d Zn magnesium oxide m terajoules per day zinc metre Mn tpa manganese ML tonnes per annum megalitre tpd Mt tonnes per day millions of tonnes tph mm tonnes per hour millimetre wmt wet metric tonnes 266 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012
