2 Information on the Company continued 2.4 Marketing 2.6 Group Resource and Business Optimisation BHP Billitons Marketing network manages the Groups revenue Group Resource and Business Optimisation RBO provides line and is responsible for: governance and technical leadership for resource development and Ore Reserve reporting.
RBOs 66 professionals are focused selling our products and for the purchase of all major raw materials: on ensuring optimal value recovery from our resources.
The team the supply chain for our various products, from assets to market, includes functional experts in mineral resource evaluation, and also for raw materials, from suppliers to our assets: brownfields exploration, planning, research and development, managing credit and price risk associated with the revenue line: work management, production processes, mine engineering achieving market clearing prices for the Groups products: and mineral process engineering.
defining our view of long-term market fundamentals.
RBO engages directly with assets to deliver guidance and assess Our responsibilities require an active presence in the various compliance in resource development and Ore Reserve reporting.
commodities markets and the global freight market.
It provides the Group Management Committee with assurance reports and portfolio analysis.
RBO also provides functional Our marketing activities are centralised in Singapore: Houston, expertise to audits and to investment review programs conducted United States: and Antwerp, Belgium.
Our Aluminium, Energy by other Group Functions.
Coal, Iron Ore, Metallurgical Coal, Manganese, Base Metals, Stainless Steel Materials, Freight and Uranium marketing teams RBOs accountabilities include governance for all resource and are headquartered in Singapore.
Our Petroleum and Diamonds reserve estimation and Ore Reserve reporting.
marketing teams operate from Houston and Antwerp, respectively.
These three marketing offices incorporate all the functions required 2.7 Government regulations to manage product marketing and distribution from the point Government regulations touch all aspects of our operations.
of production to final customer delivery.
In addition, we have marketers located in 12 regional offices around the world.
However, the geographical diversity of our operations reduces the risk that any one set of government regulations would have a We have a centralised ocean freight business that manages our material effect on our business, taken as a whole.
The primary purpose of the freight business is to create a competitive advantage for our shipments The ability to extract minerals, oil and natural gas is fundamental to our business.
In most jurisdictions, the rights to undeveloped through the procurement and operation of quality, cost-effective shipping.
From time to time, we carry complementary cargoes mineral or petroleum deposits are owned by the state.
Accordingly, we rely upon the rights granted to us by the government that owns for external parties to optimise profitability.
the mineral, oil or natural gas.
These rights usually take the form of a lease or licence, which gives us the right to access the land 2.5 Minerals exploration and extract the product.
The terms of the lease or licence, including the time period for which it is effective, are specific to the laws Our minerals exploration program is integral to our growth strategy of the relevant government.
Generally, we own the product we and is focused on discovering and acquiring operating interests extract and royalties or similar taxes are payable to the government.
in mineral deposits with the potential to support large, long-life, Some of our operations, such as our oil and gas operations in Trinidad low-cost, expandable upstream assets, diversified by commodity, and Tobago and Algeria, are subject to production sharing contracts geography and market.
under which both we, as the contractor, and the government are Our greenfield exploration targets, focused on copper, nickel, entitled to a share of the production.
Under such production sharing iron ore and potash, are organised from our three principal offices contracts, the contractor is entitled to recover its exploration and in Santiago, Chile: Perth, Australia: and Singapore.
Our exploration production costs from the governments share of production.
activities include opportunity identification, application for Related to the ability to extract is the ability to process the minerals, and acquisition of mineral title, early reconnaissance operations oil or natural gas.
Again, we rely upon the relevant government and multi-million dollar delineation drilling programs.
to grant the rights necessary to transport and treat the extracted In addition to our activities focused on finding new world-class material in order to ready it for sale.
deposits, several of our CSGs undertake brownfield exploration, Underlying our business of extracting and processing natural principally aimed at delineating and categorising mineral deposits resources is the ability to explore for those orebodies.
Typically, the near existing operations, and advancing projects through the rights to explore for minerals, oil and natural gas are granted to us development pipeline.
by the government that owns those natural resources that we wish Our expenditure on minerals exploration over the last three years to explore.
Usually, the right to explore carries with it the obligation is as follows.
to spend a defined amount of money on the exploration or to undertake particular exploration activities.
Year ended 30 June 2012 2011 2010 US$M US$M US$M Governments also impose obligations on us in respect of environmental protection, land rehabilitation, occupational health Greenfield exploration 324 207 126 and safety, and native land title with which we must comply in order Brownfield exploration 773 476 390 to continue to enjoy the right to conduct our operations within that Total minerals exploration 1,097 683 516 jurisdiction.
These obligations often require us to make substantial expenditures to minimise or remediate the environmental impact of our operations, to ensure the safety of our employees and contractors and the like.
For further information on these types of obligations, refer to section 2.8 of this Report.
Of particular note are the following regulatory regimes: 44 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report impose international sanctions on certain countries and organisations.
1 Uranium production in Australia The countries and organisations that are currently subject To mine, process, transport and sell uranium from within Australia, to United Nations sanctions are certain individuals or entities we are required to hold possession and export permissions, linked with the Taliban, Al-Qaeda and associated individuals which are also subject to regulation by the Australian Government and entities, other designated individuals and entities associated or bodies that report to the Australian Government.
with terrorism, certain entities and individuals associated with To possess nuclear material, such as uranium, in Australia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Cote dIvoire, the Democratic a Permit to Possess Nuclear Materials Possession Permit must be Peoples Republic of Korea North Korea, Eritrea, Guinea-Bissau, held pursuant to the Australian Nuclear Non-Proliferation Safeguards Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Sudan and Somalia.
The countries Act 1987 Non-Proliferation Act.
A Possession Permit is issued by currently subject to the Australian Governments autonomous the Australian Safeguards and Non-Proliferation Office, an office sanctions are the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea North established under the Non-Proliferation Act, which administers Korea, Fiji, the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Iran, Libya, Australias domestic nuclear safeguards requirements and reports Syria and Zimbabwe.
The controls impose certain approval and to the Australian Government.
reporting requirements on transactions involving such countries, entities and individuals and or assets controlled or owned by To export uranium from Australia, a Permit to Export Natural them.
Transfers into or out of Australia of amounts greater than Uranium Export Permit must be held pursuant to the Australian A$10,000 in any currency are also subject to reporting requirements.
The Export Permit is issued by the Minister for Resources and Energy.
Remittances of any dividends, interest or other payments by A special transport permit is required under the Non-Proliferation BHP Billiton Limited to non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Limiteds securities are not restricted by exchange controls or other limitations, Act by a party that transports nuclear material from one specified location to another specified location.
As we engage service save that in certain circumstances, BHP Billiton may be required to withhold Australian taxes.
providers to transport uranium, those service providers are required to hold a special transport permit.
There are no limitations, either under the laws of Australia or under the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited, on the right 2.7.
2 Exchange controls and shareholding limits of non-residents to hold or vote BHP Billiton Limited ordinary BHP Billiton Plc shares other than as set out below.
There are no laws or regulations currently in force in the The Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 United Kingdom that restrict the export or import of capital or the the FATA restricts certain acquisitions of interests in shares remittance of dividends to non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Plcs in BHP Billiton.
Generally, under the FATA, the prior approval shares, although the Group does operate in some other jurisdictions of the Australian Treasurer must be obtained for proposals where remittances of funds could be affected as they are subject by a foreign person either alone or together with associates to exchange control approvals.
There are certain sanctions adopted to acquire control of 15 per cent or more of the voting power by the UK Government which implement resolutions of the Security or issued shares in BHP Billiton Limited.
Council of the United Nations and sanctions imposed by the European Union EU against certain countries, entities and individuals and The FATA also empowers the Treasurer to make certain orders may restrict the export or import of capital or the remittance of prohibiting acquisitions by foreign persons in BHP Billiton Limited dividends to certain non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
and requiring divestiture if the acquisition has occurred where Any enforcement of financial sanctions by the UK Government would he considers the acquisition to be contrary to the national interest be initiated by HM Treasury.
Such sanctions may be in force from and the 15 per cent threshold referred to above would be exceeded time to time and include those against: i certain entities and or as a result.
Such orders may also be made in respect of acquisitions individuals associated with Belarus, Cote dIvoire, The Democratic by foreign persons where two or more foreign persons and their Peoples Republic of Korea North Korea, the Democratic Republic associates in aggregate already control 40 per cent or more of the of Congo, Egypt, Eritrea, the Republic of Guinea, the Republic issued shares or voting power in BHP Billiton Limited.
of Guinea-Bissau, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Iran, Somalia, Sudan, There are certain other statutory restrictions, and restrictions under Syria, Tunisia, Zimbabwe and the previous regimes of Iraq and 1 BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution and BHP Billiton Plcs Articles Yugoslavia : ii individuals indicted by the International Criminal of Association, that apply generally to acquisitions of shares in Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia: and iii entities and individuals BHP Billiton i. e. the restrictions are not targeted at foreign persons linked with the Taliban, Al-Qaeda and other terrorist organisations.
These include restrictions on a person and associates There are no restrictions under BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association breaching a voting power threshold of: or subject to the effect of any sanctions under English law that 20 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton Limited on a stand-alone limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote basis, i. e. calculated as if there were no special voting share BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
and only counting BHP Billiton Limiteds ordinary shares.
There are certain restrictions on shareholding levels under 30 per cent of BHP Billiton Plc.
This is the threshold for a BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association described under the mandatory offer under Rule 9 of the UK takeover code and this heading BHP Billiton Limited below.
threshold applies to all voting rights of BHP Billiton Plc therefore including voting rights attached to the BHP Billiton Plc Special BHP Billiton Limited Voting Share.
Under the Australian Banking Foreign Exchange Regulations 1959, 30 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton Plc on a stand-alone the Reserve Bank of Australia may impose restrictions on certain basis, i. e. calculated as if there were no special voting share financial transactions and require the consent of the Reserve Bank and only counting BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares.
of Australia for the movement of funds into and out of Australia.
20 per cent in relation to the BHP Billiton Group, calculated Based on our searches, restrictions currently apply if funds are having regard to all the voting power on a joint electorate basis, to be paid to or received from specified persons and individuals i. e. calculated on the aggregate of BHP Billiton Limiteds and associated with Syria, specified government and military officials BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares.
and supporters of the government of Libya, specified supporters of the former Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Under BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution and BHP Billiton Plcs Articles specified ministers and senior officials of the Government of of Association, sanctions for breach of any of these thresholds, Zimbabwe, certain specified entities associated with the Democratic other than by means of certain permitted acquisitions, include Peoples Republic of Korea North Korea, and certain Iranian withholding of dividends, voting restrictions and compulsory organisations and ministers.
In addition, from time to time the divestment of shares to the extent a shareholder and its associates United Nations Security Council and the Australian Government exceed the relevant threshold.
1 As at 14 May 2012, the financial sanctions on the Burmese regime Myanmar were suspended until 30 April 2013.
