1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Information on Metallurgical Coal mining operations continued Mine Type & Mine & Means of Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Use Location Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source & Condition Metallurgical coal continued Illawarra Coal Illawarra, New Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases expire Production Underground New South 2 beneficiation South Wales, between 20122026, commenced: Wales facilities Coal transported Bituminous coal Australia renewable for further Appin 1962 electricity grid by road or rail is mined from the Nominal capacity: periods as NSW longwall Dendrobium, to BlueScope Permian Illawarra approximately Government operations 1969 Appin and West Steels Port Coal Measures 9 mtpa legislation allows Cliff mines Kembla West Cliff 1976 Produces steelworks Mining is permitted Dendrobium premium-quality or Port Kembla to continue under the 2005 hard coking coal for export legislation during and some thermal the application period coal from the Applications lodged Wongawilli to renew mining and Bulli seams leases expiring in 2012 and 2013 Development projects 2.2.
10 Energy Coal Customer Sector Group Bowen Basin Expansions Our Energy Coal CSG is one of the worlds largest producers and marketers of export energy coal also known as thermal or steaming In November 2011, approval was given for the development coal and is also a domestic supplier to the electricity generation of the Caval Ridge mine project and expansion of the Peak industry in Australia, South Africa and the United States.
Our global Downs mine in the Bowen Basin in Central Queensland, Australia.
portfolio of energy coal assets and our insights into the broader In response to the challenging external environment, the Group energy market through our sales of other fuels gas, uranium and has chosen to delay indefinitely the 2.5 mtpa 100 per cent basis oil provide our business with substantial advantages as a supplier.
expansion of Peak Downs that is associated with the Caval Ridge We generally make our domestic sales under long-term fixed price mine development.
The 5.5 mtpa 100 per cent basis Caval Ridge or cost plus contracts with nearby power stations.
We make export mine remains on schedule to deliver first production in CY2014.
sales to power generators and some industrial users in Asia, Europe The Caval Ridge mine will be an open-cut dragline and truck and the United States, usually under contracts for delivery of a fixed and shovel operation, with coal railed to the BMA Hay Point volume of coal.
Pricing is index-linked or fixed: where pricing is Coal terminal.
fixed, financial instruments are used to swap exposure to market index basis.
In March 2011, approval was given for three key metallurgical coal projects located in the Bowen Basin in Central Queensland, We operate three assets: a group of mines and associated Australia.
The projects are expected to add 4.9 Mt of annual mine infrastructure collectively known as BHP Billiton Energy Coal South capacity 100 per cent basis through development of the Daunia Africa: our New Mexico Coal operations in the United States: and Operation and a new mining area at Broadmeadow.
In addition, our New South Wales Energy Coal operations in Australia.
We also 11 Mt of annual port capacity 100 per cent basis will be developed own a 33.33 per cent share of the Cerrejn Coal Company, which at the Hay Point Coal terminal.
These projects are ongoing with operates a coal mine in Colombia.
first coal expected from the Daunia mine in 2013, completion of the BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Africa Broadmeadow expansion expected in 2013 and the first shipments BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Africa BECSA operates four coal from the expanded terminal expected in FY2015.
mines being Khutala, Klipspruit, Middelburg and Wolvekrans in IndoMet Coal Project Indonesia the Witbank region of Mpumalanga province of South Africa, which IndoMet Coal comprises seven coal contracts of work CCoWs in FY2012 produced approximately 33 Mt.
The reserve lives of our covering a large metallurgical coal resource in Kalimantan, Indonesia, mines range from eight years at Khutala and Klipspruit to 29 years which was discovered by BHP Billiton in the 1990s.
assessment of the importance of local participation in developing In FY2012, BECSA sold approximately 57 per cent of its production the project in 2010, we sold a 25 per cent interest in the project to Eskom, the government-owned electricity utility in South Africa to a subsidiary of PT Adaro Energy TBK.
We retain 75 per cent and exported the rest via the Richards Bay Coal Terminal RBCT, of the project and hold management responsibility for the project.
in which we own a 22 per cent share.
Study work is underway to identify development options across During FY2012, BECSA entered into an empowerment transaction our CCoWs and early work on infrastructure development with a black-owned consortium, which will effectively hold has commenced.
an eight per cent equity interest in BECSA once the transaction Appin Area 9 Project is completed.
The shareholders of BECSA have also approved In June 2012, approval was given to invest US$845 million to the implementation of an Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP sustain operations at Illawarra Coal, in southern New South Wales, in which participating employees will hold a beneficial interest of Australia, by establishing a replacement mining area at Appin mine.
two per cent equity in BECSA for a vested period.
The empowerment The replacement area will have a production capacity of 3.5 mtpa transaction and the introduction of the ESOP are expected to be and will sustain Illawarra Coals production capacity at 9 mtpa.
Appin Area 9 will be operational in 2016 and will replace production at the West Cliff mine.
The project includes roadway development, new ventilation infrastructure, new and reconfigured conveyors and other mine services.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 37 2 Information on the Company continued four mtpa.
We are a 35.5 per cent shareholder in Newcastle Coal 2.2.
10 Energy Coal Customer Sector Group continued Infrastructure Group, a jointly controlled entity that is operating the New Mexico Coal Newcastle Third Port export coal loading facility and currently has We own and operate the Navajo mine, located on Navajo Nation a project in execution see Development projects below.
We also land in New Mexico, and the nearby San Juan mine located in the have a 1.75 per cent interest in Port Waratah Coal Services Limited state of New Mexico.
Each mine transports its production directly which operates two coal loading facilities at the port of Newcastle.
The reserve lives of our mines are four years at Navajo mine and six years at San Juan mine, being the Cerrejn Coal Company life of the current customer contracts.
New Mexico Coal produced We have one-third interest in Cerrejn Coal Company, which owns approximately 9.4 Mt in FY2012.
and operates one of the largest open-cut export coal mines in the world in La Guajira province of Colombia, as well as integrated New South Wales Energy Coal rail and port facilities through which the majority of production New South Wales Energy Coals operating asset is the Mt Arthur is exported to European, Middle Eastern, North American and Asian Coal open-cut mine in the Hunter Valley region of New South Wales, customers.
In FY2012, Cerrejn commenced its expansion project which produced approximately 17 Mt in FY2012 and has a reserve P40, which will increase BHP Billitons share of saleable production life of 45 years.
In FY2012, we delivered approximately 10 per cent from 10.7 mtpa to 13.3 mtpa see Development projects below.
of Mt Arthurs production to a local power station and exported Cerrejn has a current production capacity of 32 mtpa 100 per cent the rest via the port of Newcastle.
During FY2012, the RX1 Project terms and has a reserve life of 21 years.
achieved first production ahead of schedule.
This project is expected to increase run-of-mine thermal coal production by approximately Information on Energy Coal mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
The table should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserves tables see section 2.13.2.
Mine Type & Mine & Means of Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Use Location Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source & Condition South Africa Khutala 100 km east of Public road 100% BHP Billiton BECSA holds a 100% Production Combination Eskom Crushing plant Johannesburg, share of Converted commenced open-cut and national for energy coal Domestic coal Gauteng Mining Right, which 1984 underground power transported Nominal capacity: Province, was granted on supplier by overland Open-cut Produces a medium 18 mtpa South Africa 11 October 2011 under conveyor operations 1996 rank bituminous Smaller crusher long-term to Kendal thermal coal Commenced mining and wash plant contracts Power Station non-coking thermal metallurgical to beneficiate coal for domestic metallurgical coal market 2003 Nominal capacity: 0.6 mtpa Middelburg Wolvekrans 20 km Public road 100% BHP Billiton BECSA and Tavistock Production Open-cut Eskom under Beneficiation southeast of are joint holders of commenced 1982 long-term facilities: tips and Export coal Previous JV Produces a medium Witbank, 3 Converted Mining contracts crushing plants, transported 84:16 with Middelburg Mine rank bituminous Mpumalanga Rights in the previous 2 export wash to RBCT by rail Xstrata Plc Services MMS thermal coal, most Province, JV ratio 84:16. plants, middlings through and Duvha Opencast of which can be Domestic coal South Africa wash plant, Tavistock BECSA is the 100% became one beneficiated for the transported fide-stone plant Collieries Pty holder of a fourth operation in 1995 European or Asian by conveyor Limited was Converted export markets Nominal capacity: to Duvha Douglas-Middelburg amended in Mining Right 43.3 mtpa Power Station Optimisation February 2008 All 4 Rights comprise project completed the Middelburg in July 2010 1 Mine Complex During FY2011 The Converted Mining the mine was split Rights were granted into Middelburg during October and and Wolvekrans 2 December 2011 Klipspruit 30 km west Public road 100% BHP Billiton BECSA holds a Production Open-cut Eskom, under Beneficiation of Witbank Converted Mining commenced 2003 long-term facilities: tip and Export coal 50% of Phola Produces a medium Mpumalanga Right, which contracts crushing plant, transported Coal Plant in Expansion project rank bituminous Province, was granted on export wash plant to RBCT by rail JV with Anglo completed FY2010, thermal coal, most South Africa 11 October 2011 Inyosi Coal includes 50% of which can be Nominal capacity share in Phola beneficiated for the Phola Coal Coal Plant European or Asian Processing Plant: Expected ROM export markets 16 mtpa capacity: 8.0 mtpa at full ramp-up 1 This includes the Wolvekrans and Middelburg collieries and excludes the portion Tavistock obtained as a result of the amendment of the Douglas-Tavistock Joint Venture agreement.
2 JV agreement has been amended such that upon the Department of Mineral Resources amending the Converted Mining Rights, the mining area will be divided into an area wholly owned and operated by Tavistock and an area wholly owned and operated by BECSA as the new Douglas-Middelburg mine.
38 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Information on Energy Coal mining operations continued Mine Type & Mine & Means of Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Use Location Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source & Condition Australia Mt Arthur Coal Approximately Public road 100% BHP Billiton Various mining Production Open-cut Local energy Beneficiation 125 km from leases and licences commenced 2002 providers facilities: Domestic coal Produces a medium Newcastle, expire 20102032 coal handling, transported Government approval rank bituminous New South preparation, by conveyor Renewal is being permits extraction thermal coal Wales, washing plants to Bayswater sought for expired of up to 36 Mt of non-coking Australia Power Station mining leases run of mine coal from Nominal capacity: underground and in excess Export coal The original approvals open-cut operations, of 16 mtpa transported permit mining and with open-cut by rail to other activities extraction limited Newcastle port to continue during to 32 mtpa renewal application US Navajo 30 km Public road 100% BHP Billiton Long-term lease Production Open-cut Four Corners Stackers and southwest of from Navajo Nation commenced 1963 Power Plant reclaimers used Coal transported Produces a medium Farmington, continues for as to size and blend by rail to Four rank bituminous New Mexico, long as coal can be coal to contract Corners Power thermal coal US economically produced specifications Plant FCPP non-coking suitable and sold in paying for the domestic Nominal capacity: quantities market only 7.4 mtpa San Juan 25 km west of Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases from Surface mine Underground San Juan Coal sized and Farmington, federal and state operations Generation blended to Coal transported Produces a medium New Mexico, governments commenced 1973 Station contract by truck and rank bituminous US specifications conveyor to San Leases viable as Development of thermal coal using stockpiles Juan Generating long as minimum underground mine non-coking suitable Station SJGS production to replace open-cut for the domestic Nominal capacity: criteria achieved mine approved 2000 market only 5.6 mtpa Colombia Cerrejn Coal Company La Guajira Public road BHP Billiton Cerrejn Coal Mining leases Original mine began Open-cut Local Beneficiation province, 33.33% Company expire 2034 producing in 1976 Colombian facilities: crushing Coal exported Produces a medium Colombia power system plant with by rail to Puerto Anglo BHP Billiton interest rank bituminous capacity of Bolivar American acquired in 2000 thermal coal 32 mtpa and 33.33% non-coking, washing plant Xstrata suitable for the 33.33% export market Nominal capacity: 3 mtpa Newcastle Port Third Phase Expansion Development projects On 31 August 2011, we announced a US$367 million BHP Billiton Cerrejn Coal P40 Project share investment in the third stage development of the Newcastle On 18 August 2011, we announced a US$437 million BHP Billiton Coal Infrastructure Groups coal handling facility in Newcastle, share investment in the expansion of Cerrejn Coal, known as Australia.
The port expansion project will increase total capacity the P40 Project, which will enable Cerrejn Coals saleable thermal at the coal terminal from 53 mtpa to 66 mtpa.
This will increase coal production to increase by 8.0 mtpa to approximately 40 mtpa.
New South Wales Energy Coals allocation by a further 4.6 mtpa We have a one-third interest in Cerrejn Coal.
First coal is scheduled to occur in FY2014, with project is expected to increase our share of saleable production the terminal expected to operate at full capacity within the from 10.7 mtpa to 13.3 mtpa.
Construction commenced in CY2011 following 12 months.
The project scope includes a second berth and dual quadrant ship loader at Cerrejns 100 per cent owned and operated Puerto Bolivar, along with necessary mine, rail and associated supply chain infrastructure.
