1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.13.1 Petroleum reserves continued 2.13.2 Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves Proved undeveloped reserves The statement of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves including Coal Resources and Coal Reserves presented in this Report has At year-end, Petroleum had 1,363 MMboe of proved undeveloped been produced in accordance with the Australasian Code for reserves, as compared to 924 MMboe at the end of FY2011.
Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, The largest component in the increase in proved undeveloped December 2004 the JORC Code.
Commodity prices and exchange reserves was through the acquisition of Petrohawk Energy rates used to estimate the economic viability of reserves are based Corporation, which included a total of 337 MMboe in proved on asset-defined or BHP Billiton long-term forecasts.
Subsequent minor acquisitions added Reserves tabulated are held within existing, fully permitted mining 6.0 MMboe in proved undeveloped reserves.
The Groups mineral leases are of sufficient duration discoveries added 19 MMboe associated with a discovery or convey a legal right to renew for sufficient duration to enable in the Mad Dog field and new developments planned in the all reserves on the leased properties to be mined in accordance with Upper Pyrenees and Moondyne fields in the Pyrenees development.
Our Ore Reserves may include areas Revisions added 112 MMboe primarily through the extension of where some additional approvals remain outstanding, but where, proved areas in the Eagle Ford field.
Improved recovery added based on the technical investigations we carry out as part of our 34 MMboe through water injection projects in Mad Dog and Shenzi planning process, and our knowledge and experience of the approvals fields in the offshore US GOM.
A total of 69 MMboe was converted process, we expect that such approvals will be obtained as part from proved undeveloped to proved developed, as a result of drilling of the normal course of business and within the time frame required in the Fayetteville field, the implementation of water injection by the current schedule.
programs at Shenzi and Atlantis, the start-up of a compression The information in this Report relating to Mineral Resources project in the Minerva gas field and the restart of the oil production and Ore Reserves is based on information compiled by Competent of the North West Shelf oil fields in which we have an interest.
Persons as defined in the JORC Code.
All Competent Persons During FY2012, Petroleum spent US$6.2 billion progressing have, at the time of reporting, sufficient experience relevant to development of undeveloped reserves worldwide.
the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration Petroleums offshore development projects require significant and to the activity they are undertaking to qualify as a Competent capital expenditure and multi-year lead times before initial Person as defined by the JORC Code.
At the reporting date, production can be achieved with the associated progression each Competent Person listed in this Report is a full-time employee of reserves from undeveloped to developed.
Based on current of BHP Billiton or a company in which BHP Billiton has a controlling project schedules, approximately 93 per cent of the 1,363 MMboe interest or has joint control, unless otherwise noted.
Each Competent currently classified as undeveloped are actively being pursued Person consents to the inclusion in this Report of the matters based and are scheduled to be on stream within the next five years.
on their information in the form and context in which it appears.
The remaining undeveloped reserves are located in active fields All of the Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve figures presented expected to produce well into the next decade and will be are reported in 100 per cent terms and represent estimates at brought on stream in a phased manner to best optimise the 30 June 2012 unless otherwise stated.
All tonnes are reported use of production facilities and to meet long-term gas supply as dry metric tonnes unless otherwise stated.
The CSG has a dependable history of progressing grade information has been rounded, hence small differences large undeveloped volumes from undeveloped to developed, may be present in the totals.
All of the Mineral Resource information evidenced by the past three years, which have averaged over is inclusive of Mineral Resources that have been converted to 75 MMboe per year.
Ore Reserves i. e. Mineral Resources are not additional to Ore Reserves.
The information contained herein differs in certain respects from that reported to the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, which is prepared with reference to the SECs Industry Guide 7.
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are presented in the accompanying tables.
