5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.11 Board meetings and attendance The Board meets as often as necessary to fulfil its role.
Directors are required to allocate sufficient time to the Group to perform their responsibilities effectively, including adequate time to prepare for Board meetings.
During the reporting year, the Board met 10 times, with five of those meetings being held in Australia, three in the United Kingdom and two in the United States.
Generally, meetings run over three days including committee meetings.
Members of the GMC and other members of senior management attended meetings of the Board by invitation.
Senior managers delivered presentations on the status and performance of our businesses and matters reserved for the Board, including the approval of budgets, annual financial statements and business strategy.
Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during the year ended 30 June 2012 is set out in the table below.
Attendance at Board and Board committee meetings during the year ended 30 June 2012 5 Board Risk and Audit Nomination Remuneration Sustainability Finance A B A B A B A B A B A B Malcolm Broomhead 10 10 7 7 4 4 John Buchanan 10 9 7 6 8 7 Carlos Cordeiro 10 10 8 7 1 David Crawford 10 10 4 4 4 4 2 Pat Davies 1 1 1 1 Carolyn Hewson 10 10 11 11 Marius Kloppers 10 10 3 Lindsay Maxsted 10 10 11 11 4 4 Wayne Murdy 10 10 11 11 4 4 Jac Nasser 10 10 7 7 Keith Rumble 10 10 7 7 John Schubert 10 10 7 7 8 8 7 7 4 Shriti Vadera 10 10 10 10 Column A indicates the number of meetings held during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or committee.
Column B indicates the number of meetings attended during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or committee.
1 David Crawford retired from the RAC on 6 September 2011.
2 Pat Davies was appointed to the Board and the Remuneration Committee effective from 1 June 2012.
3 Lindsay Maxsted was appointed Chairman of the RAC on 6 September 2011.
4 Shriti Vadera was appointed to the RAC on 16 August 2011.
5 The Finance Committee was formed on 23 April 2012 and met four times during FY2012.
5.12 Director re-election 5.13 Board committees The Board has adopted a policy consistent with the UK The Board has established committees to assist it in exercising Corporate Governance Code, under which all Directors must its authority, including monitoring the performance of the business seek re-election by shareholders annually if they wish to remain to gain assurance that progress is being made towards the corporate on the Board.
This policy took effect at the 2011 Annual General purpose within the limits imposed by the Board.
It replaced the previous system, as set out in the the Board approved the formation of a new standing committee: Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association the Finance Committee, the mandate of which is outlined below.
of BHP Billiton Plc, under which Directors are required to submit The Board is of the view that the Groups governance structure themselves to shareholders for re-election at least every three is enhanced by a committee that focuses on capital and finance years.
The adoption of annual re-election reflects the Boards matters.
The Finance Committee sits alongside the other permanent long-standing commitment that where governance principles vary committees of the Board: the RAC, the Sustainability Committee, across jurisdictions, the Board will adopt what it considers to be the the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
higher of the prevailing standards.
The Board believes that annual Other committees are formed from time to time to deal with re-election promotes and supports accountability to shareholders.
Board support for reappointment is not automatic.
Directors Each of the permanent committees has terms of reference who are seeking re-election are subject to a performance under which authority is delegated by the Board.
appraisal overseen by the Nomination Committee of the Board.
Annual re-election effectively means all Directors are subject to a performance appraisal annually.
The Board, on the recommendation The terms of reference for each committee are of the Nomination Committee, makes a determination as to whether available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com home it will endorse a retiring Director for re-election.
The Board will aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
not endorse a Director for re-election if his or her performance is not considered satisfactory.
The Board will advise shareholders The office of the Company Secretary provides secretariat services in the Notice of Meeting whether or not re-election is supported.
for each of the committees.
Committee meeting agendas, papers and minutes are made available to all members of the Board.
BHP Billiton does not apply or implement a no vacancy rule in Subject to appropriate controls and the overriding scrutiny of the relation to Board appointments.
Accordingly, Director candidates Board, committee chairmen are free to use whatever resources can be elected to the Board by ordinary resolution and are not they consider necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
required to out-poll an incumbent Director in order to be elected.
Reports from each of the committees appear below.
