5 Corporate Governance Statement continued up to date with developments within our Customer Sector 5.8 Director induction training and development Groups CSGs, as well as developments in the markets The Board considers that the development of industry and in which we operate.
Group knowledge is a continuous and ongoing process.
During the year, Non-executive Directors participated in the Upon appointment, each new Non-executive Director undertakes following activities: an induction program specifically tailored to their needs.
business briefings intended to provide each Director with a deeper understanding of the activities, environment and key issues and direction of CSGs.
These briefings are provided to the Board by A copy of an indicative induction program is available senior executives, including CSG Presidents and GMC members.
com home aboutus They are comprehensive briefings on the commodities, assets ourcompany Pages governance.
and markets in which we operate.
The briefings provided during FY2012 covered iron ore, stainless steel materials, uranium, BHP Billitons long-stated strategy is to own and operate large, petroleum and manganese.
When business briefings were long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets diversified combined with a site visit, they took place on-site, otherwise by commodity, geography and market.
The Boards development they took place at Board meetings where the relevant executives activity reflects this diversification through the provision of joined Directors: regular updates to Directors on each of the Groups commodities, development sessions on specific topics of relevance, such as geographies and markets.
climate change, commodity markets, world economy, changes in corporate governance standards, Directors duties and Non-executive Directors also participate in continuous improvement shareholder feedback: programs, in accordance with their terms of appointment.
Programs visits to key BHP Billiton sites, including briefings on the assets are designed to maximise the effectiveness of the Directors throughout and other relevant issues, and meetings with key personnel: their tenure and link in with their individual Director performance evaluations.
The training and development program covers not addresses by external speakers, who are generally experts only matters of a business nature, but also matters falling into in their field.
the environmental, social and governance area.
Director involvement and continuous development through site Structured opportunities are provided to build knowledge visits, Business Group Risk and Audit Committee Business Group through initiatives such as visits to BHP Billiton sites and RAC meetings and on-site business briefings is summarised business briefings provided at Board meetings.
Non-executive in the site visit and business briefing map, below.
Directors also build their Group and industry knowledge Business Group RAC meetings take place twice yearly as through the involvement of the GMC and other senior part of our financial governance framework.
Directors who employees in Board meetings.
are members of the Boards RAC chair the Business Group Business briefings, site visits and development sessions underpin RAC meetings.
Half-year Business Group RAC meetings take and support the Boards work in monitoring and overseeing progress place via video conference and full year meetings take towards the corporate purpose of creating long-term shareholder place face-to-face to ensure maximum interaction between value through the discovery, acquisition, development and the Business Group RAC and other meeting participants.
We therefore continuously Further information on Business Group RACs is at section 5.13.1. build Directors knowledge to ensure that the Board remains Director site visits, on-site business briefings and Business Group RAC meetings 20102012 London 2011 Jansen 2011 2010 2011 Houston Shale gas 2012 2012 Olympic Dam Western BHP Billiton Australia Mitsubishi Iron Ore Alliance BMA Mozal 2010 2010 2011 2010 2010 BHP Billiton 2010 2010 Escondida 2011 2010 Energy Coal 2012 Nickel West 2010 2011 South Africa BECSA 2012 2010 2010 Santiago 2012 2011 Minerva Melbourne Director Site Visit, including briefing BG RAC Meeting 116 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012
