1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report The decrease in Underlying EBIT from the prior year is a result 3.6.
1 Consolidated results of weaknesses in the price of, and demand for, commodities Year ended 30 June 2012 compared with year ended 30 June 2011 and industry-wide cost pressure.
The rate of cost escalation was Our strategy to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, most severe in those CSGs that experienced disruptions, outages expandable, upstream assets diversified by commodity, geography or grade-related issues.
The increased revenue for Onshore US from and market remained a major point of differentiation, particularly US$107 million in FY2011 to US$2.2 billion in FY2012 did not result in the current, more challenging economic environment.
in additional EBIT due to the impact of lower realised gas prices in Revenue was US$72.2 billion, an increase of US$487 million, the United States.
An analysis of the change in Underlying EBIT for or 0.7 per cent, from US$71.7 billion in the corresponding period.
the Group is set out in section 3.6.
2 and for the CSGs in section 3.6.
The revenue increases of US$2.2 billion in both our Petroleum Net operating cash flow of US$24.4 billion declined by 18.9 per cent, and Iron Ore businesses were partially offset by decreases in other while Underlying return on capital was 23.0 per cent.
The value businesses, in particular our Base Metals and Stainless Steel Materials of the Groups diversified strategy was reflected in the Groups businesses of US$2.6 billion and US$868 million, respectively.
Underlying EBIT margin, which remained at a robust 39.4 per cent.
The increase in revenue in Iron Ore related primarily to higher Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year ended 30 June 2010 sales volumes of US$3.4 billion, offset by lower realised prices Revenue was US$71.7 billion, an increase of US$19.9 billion, of US$1.2 billion.
Revenue increases in Petroleum related primarily representing 35.9 per cent from US$52.8 billion in the to US$2.2 billion of revenue in Onshore US for FY2012, an increase corresponding period.
Increases were experienced across all our of US$2.1 billion from FY2011.
The impact of higher realised prices CSGs, with US$9.3 billion for Iron Ore being the most significant.
in Petroleums conventional primarily offshore business was largely Other significant increases were in Base Metals US$3.7 billion, offset by lower sales volumes.
Petroleum US$2.0 billion and Metallurgical Coal US$1.5 billion.
The revenue decrease in Base Metals reflected lower sales volumes Our Attributable profit of US$23.6 billion represented an increase of US$861 million and lower realised prices of US$1.5 billion.
of 85.9 per cent from the corresponding period.
Attributable The decrease in revenue in Stainless Steel Materials was primarily profit excluding exceptional items of US$21.7 billion represented due to lower realised prices.
an increase of 73.9 per cent from the corresponding period, while Further description on the changes in revenue is included in the Underlying return on capital, excluding investment associated with analysis of Underlying EBIT for the Group in section 3.6.
2 and for projects not yet in production, increased to 50 per cent.
The strong the CSGs in section 3.6.
6. increase in the Groups Underlying EBIT margin to 47 per cent emphasised the quality of BHP Billitons diversified portfolio.
Our Attributable profit of US$15.4 billion represented a decrease of 34.8 per cent from US$23.6 billion in the corresponding period.
An ongoing commitment to invest through all points of the economic cycle delivered record annual production across four commodities Attributable profit in FY2012 included a number of exceptional and 10 operations.
Our decision to invest in our WAIO business items: an impairment of the Fayetteville, US, dry gas assets during the depths of the global financial crisis facilitated an eleventh acquired from Chesapeake Energy in March 2011 of US$1.8 billion consecutive annual increase in iron ore production, as prices US$2.8 billion before tax : an impairment of the Nickel West, continued to test new highs.
Three major projects delivered first Australia, assets of US$355 million US$449 million before tax production in FY2011, including the New South Wales Energy Coal and a US$342 million US$452 million before tax charge for MAC20 Project, Australia, which was completed ahead of schedule.
the suspension or early closure of operations and the change in status of specific projects, which included an impairment Robust demand, industry-wide cost pressures and persistent supply of the Olympic Dam Project of US$242 million US$346 million side constraints continued to support the fundamentals for the before tax.
majority of BHP Billitons core commodities.
In that context, another strong year of growth in Chinese crude steel production ensured Other exceptional items included the settlement of insurance claims steelmaking material prices were the major contributing factor at Queensland Coal, Australia, which resulted in other income of to the US$17.2 billion price-related increase in Underlying EBIT.
US$199 million US$284 million before tax, while a US$637 million non-cash income tax credit was recognised following the passage However, we regularly highlighted our belief that costs tend to lag of Australias Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT and Petroleum the commodity price cycle as consumable, labour and contractor Resource Rent Tax PRRT extension into legislation in March 2012. costs are broadly correlated with the mining industrys level of activity.
In the environment at that time, tight labour and raw Attributable profit excluding exceptional items comprising Profit material markets were presenting a challenge for all operators, after taxation attributable to members of BHP Billiton Group less and BHP Billiton was not immune from that trend.
The devaluation Exceptional items as described in section 3.6.
5 of US$17.1 billion of the US dollar and inflation reduced Underlying EBIT by a further represented a decrease of 21.1 per cent from US$21.7 billion in US$3.2 billion.
The US$4.6 billion decrease in Attributable profit excluding exceptional items primarily reflects the decrease in Underlying EBIT Record operating cash flow of US$30.1 billion continued to create of US$4.8 billion.
substantial flexibility for the Group.
2 Consolidated results Underlying EBIT In discussing the operating results of our business, we focus on a financial measure we refer to as Underlying EBIT.
Underlying EBIT is the key measure that management uses internally to assess the performance of our business, make decisions on the allocation of resources and assess operational management.
Management uses this measure because financing structures and tax regimes differ across our assets and substantial components of our tax and interest charges are levied at a Group rather than an operational level.
We exclude exceptional items from Underlying EBIT in order to enhance the comparability of the measure from period to period and provide clarity into the underlying performance of our operations.
Our management monitors exceptional items separately.
The following table reconciles Underlying EBIT to Profit from operations.
2012 2011 2010 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Underlying EBIT 27,238 31,980 19,719 Exceptional items before taxation refer section 3.6.
5 3,486 164 312 Profit from operations EBIT 23,752 31,816 20,031 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 89 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.6.
2 Consolidated results Underlying EBIT continued The following table describes the approximate impact of the principal factors that affected Underlying EBIT for FY2012 and FY2011.
2012 2011 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M Underlying EBIT as reported in the prior year 31,980 19,719 Change in volumes: Increase in volumes 2,529 841 Decrease in volumes 2,221 1,422 308 581 Net price impact: Change in sales prices 2,213 18,648 Price-linked costs 253 1,420 1,960 17,228 Change in costs: Costs rate and usage 3,138 1,412 Exchange rates 820 2,526 Inflation on costs 764 635 3,082 4,573 Asset sales 78 85 Ceased and sold operations 347 140 1 New and acquired operations 86 1,153 Exploration and business development 819 328 Other 472 413 Underlying EBIT 27,238 31,980 1 Assets are reported as New and acquired operations until there is a full-year period for comparison.
Accordingly, Petrohawk and Fayetteville for FY2012 and FY2011 are in New and acquired operations.
The method of calculation of the factors that affected Underlying EBIT and the financial statement line items of Revenue, Other income and Expenses excluding net finance costs that are affected by the factors are as follows.
Factor affecting Financial statement line Underlying EBIT Method of calculation item affected Volumes Change in volumes for each operation from the corresponding period to the current period multiplied by prior Revenue and Expenses year Underlying EBIT margin.
Change in sales prices Change in average realised price for each operation from the corresponding period to the current period Revenue multiplied by current period volumes.
Price-linked costs As for change in sales prices.
Expenses Costs rate and usage Change in total costs, other than those included in other categories below, for each operation from the Expenses corresponding period to the current period.
Exchange rates Change in exchange rate multiplied by current period local currency revenue and expenses the majority Revenue and Expenses of the Groups selling prices are denominated in US dollars and so there is little impact of exchange rate changes on Revenue.
Inflation on costs Change in inflation rate applied to expenses, other than depreciation and amortisation, price-linked costs, Expenses exploration and business development expenses, expenses in ceased and sold and expenses in new and acquired operations.
Asset sales Profit loss on the sale of assets or operations in the current period minus profit loss on sale in the Other income corresponding period.
Ceased and Underlying EBIT for operations that are ceased or sold operations in the current period minus Underlying EBIT Revenue, Other income sold operations for operations that are ceased or sold in the corresponding period.
and Expenses New and acquired Underlying EBIT for operations that are new or acquired in the current period minus Underlying EBIT Revenue, Other income operations for operations that are new or acquired in the corresponding period.
and Expenses Exploration and Exploration and business development expense in the current period minus exploration and business Expenses business development development expense in the corresponding period.
Other Variances not explained by the above factors.
Expenses The following commentary provides description of the principal factors outlined in the table above for FY2012 and FY2011.
90 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Non-cash items, which included foreign exchange rate related 3.6.
2 Consolidated results Underlying EBIT continued adjustments to the carrying value of inventory and higher Year ended 30 June 2012 compared with year ended 30 June 2011 depreciation associated with the completion of major projects, Underlying EBIT for FY2012 was US$27.2 billion, compared reduced Underlying EBIT by a further US$435 million in FY2012.
with US$32.0 billion in the corresponding period, a decrease of 14.8 per cent.
Exchange rates The cost related impact of the stronger Australian dollar reduced Volumes Underlying EBIT by US$565 million in FY2012.
However, the positive Disciplined investment throughout the economic cycle has established restatement of monetary items in the balance sheet that followed strong momentum in our major businesses, demonstrated by a the general strengthening of the US dollar against a basket twelfth consecutive annual production record at WAIO and record of currencies at the end of the period resulted in a US$1.1 billion annual production at another nine operations.
In aggregate, increase in Underlying EBIT.
In total, exchange rate volatility volumes increased Underlying EBIT by US$308 million in the period.
increased Underlying EBIT by US$820 million.
WAIO shipments rose to a record annualised rate of 179 million Average and closing exchange rates for FY2012 and FY2011 are tonnes Mt in the June 2012 quarter 100 per cent basis.
detailed in note 1 Accounting policies to the financial statements.
The resultant 23 Mt BHP Billiton share uplift in WAIO shipments increased Underlying EBIT by US$2.4 billion in FY2012.
Inflation on costs Inflationary pressure had an unfavourable impact on all CSGs Downtime at our non-operated facilities in the Gulf of Mexico, US, and reduced Underlying EBIT by US$764 million during FY2012.
and the North West Shelf, Australia, and natural field decline, The pressure was most notable in Australia and South Africa, particularly at Pyrenees, Australia, were the major contributors which accounted for 75 per cent of the total impact.
to the volume related US$1.1 billion reduction in Underlying EBIT for the Petroleum business.
The Atlantis and Mad Dog, both US, Asset sales facilities resumed production in August 2012.
In Base Metals, The contribution of asset sales to Underlying EBIT increased annual copper production records were set at Antamina and Spence, by US$78 million from the corresponding period and primarily Chile, although lower grades and industrial action constrained reflected the receipt of a post-closing payment that followed the performance at Escondida.
An overall decline in Base Metals 2006 divestment of our interests in Cascade and Chinook, US.
volumes reduced Underlying EBIT by US$509 million in the period.
Ceased and sold operations The impact on EBIT arising from the increase in volume relating A favourable foreign exchange related restatement and partial to the acquisition of our US Onshore business is included under release of the Newcastle steelworks, Australia, rehabilitation the heading New and acquired operations.
provision accounted for the majority of the US$347 million Prices increase in Underlying EBIT.
Prices for many of BHP Billitons products declined during FY2012 New and acquired operations as global economic growth slowed and concerns surrounding the Assets are reported as new and acquired operations until there economic outlook increased.
In total, lower average realised prices is a full-year period for comparison.
New and acquired operations reduced Underlying EBIT by US$2.0 billion in FY2012, net of reduced Underlying EBIT by US$86 million in FY2012.
The impact was most apparent in our Base Metals acquisition of the HWE business in Western Australia increased and Iron Ore businesses where weaker prices reduced Underlying Underlying EBIT by US$97 million, which was more than offset EBIT by US$1.6 billion and US$1.3 billion, respectively.
No respite by a decrease in Underlying EBIT for the Onshore US business of was provided for our Aluminium, Manganese and Stainless Steel US$183 million being a loss of US$140 million in FY2012 compared Materials businesses, where lower realised prices reduced Underlying with a profit of US$43 million in FY2011.
EBIT by a combined US$1.2 billion.
The additional revenue of US$2.1 billion for Onshore US in FY2012 In Petroleum, a 19 per cent increase in the average realised price did not result in additional EBIT due to the impact of lower realised of oil and a 29 per cent rise in the average realised price of liquefied gas prices in the United States.
natural gas contributed to a US$1.5 billion increase in Underlying EBIT in FY2012.
In addition, stronger thermal and metallurgical Exploration and business development coal realised prices increased Underlying EBIT by a combined Exploration expense increased by US$662 million to US$1.7 billion US$434 million, net of price-linked costs.
Within Minerals US$928 million expense, greenfield exploration continued on copper targets in South America, Costs nickel and copper targets in Australia, and iron ore and potash Industry-wide cost pressure resulted in a decline in Underlying EBIT targets globally.
of US$3.1 billion, particularly in Base Metals and in Metallurgical Coal, where industrial action at Queensland Coal and Escondida Petroleum exploration expense was US$818 million and included created additional pressure on costs.
a US$144 million impairment of exploration previously capitalised.
Our activities focused on offshore Western Australia, the Gulf Higher costs, excluding the impacts of inflation, exchange rate of Mexico, South East Asia and our recently acquired Onshore volatility and non-cash items, reduced Underlying EBIT by US business.
Labour and contractor cost increases and higher raw material costs accounted for more than half A general increase in the level of business development expenditure of this increase.
reduced Underlying EBIT by a further US$157 million in FY2012.
The Group has been quick to respond to the change in the operating Other environment and has acted decisively by closing energy intensive The absence of specific provisions and non-cash charges that were silicomanganese alloy production capacity in South Africa and by reported in the Aluminium and Base Metals businesses in FY2011 temporarily closing capacity at TEMCO.
In addition, metallurgical largely accounted for a US$472 million increase in Underlying EBIT coal production at Norwich Park was suspended following a review in the period.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 91 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued Exchange rates 3.6.
2 Consolidated results Underlying EBIT continued A weaker US dollar against producer currencies reduced Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year ended 30 June 2010 Underlying EBIT by US$2.5 billion, which included a US$735 million Underlying EBIT for FY2011 was US$32.0 billion, compared variance related to the restatement of monetary items in the with US$19.7 billion in the corresponding period, an increase balance sheet.
The Australian operations were the most heavily of 62.2 per cent.
The strong Australian dollar reduced Underlying EBIT Volumes by US$2.1 billion, which included a US$640 million variance BHP Billiton achieved production records across four commodities related to the restatement of monetary items in the balance sheet.
WAIO shipments rose to a record The absolute impact on costs as a result of the restatement of annualised rate of 155 mtpa in the June 2011 quarter and, when monetary items in the balance sheet was a loss of US$807 million combined with strong operating performance at Samarco, Brazil, in FY2011.
enabled iron ore volumes to contribute an additional US$572 million Average and closing exchange rates for FY2011 and FY2010 are to Underlying EBIT.
The completion and successful ramp-up of the MAC20 Project ahead Inflation on costs of schedule underpinned record production at New South Wales Inflationary pressure on costs across all businesses had an Energy Coal in the period.
When considered in conjunction with unfavourable impact on Underlying EBIT of US$635 million.
a 13 per cent increase in South Africa Coal production, Energy Coal The pressure was most evident in Australia and South Africa, volumes increased Underlying EBIT by US$177 million in FY2011.
which accounted for over two-thirds of the total impact.
However, broader challenges continued to delay the supply response Asset sales of the industry over the 12-month period.
For example, metallurgical coal supply was significantly affected by persistent wet weather in The profit on the sale of assets was US$85 million lower than the corresponding period largely due to the dissolution of the Douglas the Bowen Basin, Australia, while ongoing permitting delays in the Gulf of Mexico continued to impact drilling activity.
In aggregate, Tavistock Joint Venture, South Africa, which increased Underlying EBIT in the prior period.
volumes reduced BHP Billiton Underlying EBIT by US$581 million in FY2011 despite generally strong operating performance.
Ceased and sold operations Prices The currency revaluation of rehabilitation and closure provisions for ceased operations was the major driver of the US$140 million Robust demand driven by the emerging economies, a general elevation and steepening of global commodity cost curves and reduction in Underlying EBIT.
the persistent theme of supply side constraint, were all catalysts New and acquired operations for higher commodity prices that increased Underlying EBIT Assets are reported as new and acquired operations until there by US$18.6 billion in the period.
Another strong year of growth is a full-year comparison.
New operations increased Underlying in Chinese crude steel production ensured steelmaking material EBIT by US$1.2 billion primarily due to strong performance at prices were the major contributing factor, as they alone increased the BHP Billiton operated Pyrenees oil facility and the inaugural Underlying EBIT by US$11.1 billion.
Price-linked costs including contribution from the recently acquired Fayetteville shale assets.
royalties reduced Underlying EBIT by US$1.4 billion.
Exploration and business development Costs Group exploration expense increased marginally in FY2011 to Excluding the impact of a weaker US dollar, inflation and US$1.1 billion.
Within Minerals US$577 million expense, the focus an increase in non-cash items, costs decreased Underlying centred upon copper targets in South America, Mongolia and EBIT by US$1.2 billion.
Zambia: nickel and copper targets in Australia: and diamond targets BHP Billiton has regularly highlighted its belief that costs tend to in Canada.
Exploration for iron ore, potash, uranium and manganese lag the commodity price cycle as consumable, labour and contractor was undertaken in a number of regions, including Australia, Asia, costs were broadly correlated with the mining industrys level of Africa and the Americas.
In the FY2011 environment of elevated commodity prices, Petroleum exploration expense was US$477 million and included tight labour and raw material markets were presenting a challenge a US$73 million impairment of exploration previously capitalised.
Exploration drilling activity was delayed in the Gulf of Mexico due Higher fuel and energy prices of which BHP Billiton was a net to new regulatory permitting processes, but was partially offset beneficiary, together with increased maintenance, labour and by an increase in the acquisition and processing of geophysical data.
contractor costs, accounted for the majority of the impact and Expenditure on business development reduced Underlying EBIT reduced Underlying EBIT by US$878 million.
by an additional US$303 million compared with the prior period Cost performance in the large bulk commodity businesses was as Base Metals progressed a number of its development options, heavily influenced by the ability to leverage infrastructure and including Olympic Dam Project ODP1 and the Spence Hypogene maximise volumes.
In this regard, the weather related disruption project, Chile.
Increased activity on the Scarborough and Browse at our Queensland Coal, Australia, business had a negative impact liquefied natural gas projects, both Australia, in FY2011 also on unit costs in the period.
The major cost offset was related to contributed to the rise in the business development expense.
the recovery in operating performance that followed last years Other Clark Shaft outage at Olympic Dam.
Other items decreased Underlying EBIT by US$413 million and Non-cash items, predominantly depreciation, reduced Underlying included provisions totalling US$189 million related to indirect EBIT by a further US$255 million and reflected the ongoing delivery taxes in the Aluminium and Iron Ore businesses and Colombian of our organic growth program.
net worth tax in Stainless Steel Materials and Energy Coal.
