6 Notes to Financial Statements Basis of preparation 1 Accounting policies This general purpose financial report for the year ended 30 June 2012 Dual Listed Companies structure and basis has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the of preparation of financial statements Australian Corporations Act 2001 and the UK Companies Act 2006 Merger terms and with: On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Limited previously known as Australian Accounting Standards, being Australian equivalents BHP Limited, an Australian listed company, and BHP Billiton Plc to International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations previously known as Billiton Plc, a United Kingdom UK listed as issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board AASB company, entered into a Dual Listed Company DLC merger.
effective as of 30 June 2012: This was effected by contractual arrangements between the International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations Companies and amendments to their constitutional documents.
as adopted by the European Union EU effective as of 30 June 2012: International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations The effect of the DLC merger is that BHP Billiton Limited and its as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board subsidiaries the BHP Billiton Limited Group and BHP Billiton Plc effective as of 30 June 2012. and its subsidiaries the BHP Billiton Plc Group operate together as a single economic entity the Group.
Under the arrangements: The above accounting standards and interpretations are collectively the shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc referred to as IFRS in this report.
have a common economic interest in both Groups: There were no significant impacts arising from accounting the shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc take standards or interpretations adopted for the first time in these key decisions, including the election of Directors, through a joint financial statements.
electoral procedure under which the shareholders of the two The following accounting standards may have an impact on the Companies effectively vote on a joint basis: Group in future reporting periods but are not yet effective: BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have a common Board of Directors, a unified management structure and joint objectives: IFRS 9 AASB 9 Financial Instruments modifies the classification and measurement of certain classes of financial assets and dividends and capital distributions made by the two Companies liabilities.
The most significant change is to rationalise from are equalised: four to two primary categories for financial assets.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc each executed a deed IFRS 10 AASB 10 Consolidated Financial Statements is a poll guarantee, guaranteeing subject to certain exceptions the replacement of IAS 27 AASB 127 Consolidations.
The revised contractual obligations whether actual or contingent, primary standard introduces a modified single concept of control that or secondary of the other incurred after 29 June 2001 together applies to all entities.
It changes the requirements for determining with specified obligations existing at that date.
whether an entity is consolidated by revising the definition If either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc proposes to pay of control and adding further guiding principles.
a dividend to its shareholders, then the other Company must pay A review of all entities and contractual arrangements in the Group a matching cash dividend of an equivalent amount per share to its which are less than 100 per cent owned, currently proportionately shareholders.
If either Company is prohibited by law or is otherwise consolidated, or currently accounted for as joint operations or assets unable to declare, pay or otherwise make all or any portion of such has been completed to assess the impact of IFRS 10 on the Group.
a matching dividend, then BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc will, That review determined that Escondida will be controlled by the so far as it is practicable to do so, enter into such transactions with Group under IFRS 10 and consolidated into the results of the Group each other as the Boards agree to be necessary or desirable so as from 1 July 2013.
Accordingly, the Group will no longer recognise to enable both Companies to pay dividends as nearly as practicable its 57.5 per cent share of Escondidas assets, liabilities, revenue, at the same time.
expenses and cash flows but will recognise 100 per cent of The DLC merger did not involve the change of legal ownership of Escondidas revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and cash flows any assets of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc, any change and a non-controlling interest equal to 42.5 per cent of Escondidas of ownership of any existing shares or securities of BHP Billiton Limited profit and net assets.
or BHP Billiton Plc, the issue of any shares or securities or any payment IFRS 11 AASB 11 Joint Arrangements modifies the accounting by way of consideration, save for the issue by each Company of for joint arrangements in two ways: one special voting share to a trustee company which is the means It changes the definition of joint control with reference to the by which the joint electoral procedure is operated.
definition of unanimous consent the contractually agreed sharing Accounting for the DLC merger of control of an arrangement with reference to voting on relevant activities.
Arrangements which do not fall within this definition The basis of accounting for the DLC merger was established under are beyond the scope of IFRS 11.
Australian and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice GAAP, pursuant to the requirements of the Australian Securities and For those entities within the scope of IFRS 11, a distinction is made Investments Commission ASIC Practice Note 71 Financial Reporting between joint ventures and joint operations based on the rights by Australian Entities in Dual-Listed Company Arrangements, an and obligations of the parties arising from the arrangement in the order issued by ASIC under section 340 of the Corporations Act 2001 normal course of business.
Entities for which it is determined the on 2 September 2002, and in accordance with the UK Companies Act Group has rights only to the net assets of the arrangement are 1985.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 AASB 1 classified as joint ventures and are equity accounted.
Entities for First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, which it is determined the Group has rights to the underlying the same basis of accounting is applied under International Financial assets and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangement are Reporting Standards.
Accordingly, these financial statements classified as joint operations and therefore the Group recognises consolidate the Group as follows: its proportionate share of the jointly held assets and liabilities, revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the Results for the years ended 30 June 2012, 30 June 2011 and joint operation and from the sale of the output by the joint 30 June 2010 are of the consolidated entity comprising the operation and its share of any expenses incurred jointly.
BHP Billiton Limited Group and the BHP Billiton Plc Group.
A review of all entities and contractual arrangements in the Group Assets and liabilities of the BHP Billiton Limited Group and which are less than 100 per cent owned, currently proportionately the BHP Billiton Plc Group were consolidated at the date consolidated, or currently accounted for as joint operations or assets of the merger at their existing carrying amounts.
has been completed to assess the impact of IFRS 11 on the Group.
Selected financial information of the BHP Billiton Limited single parent entity is presented in note 36 to the financial statements.
Financial statements of the BHP Billiton Plc single parent entity are presented in section 9.2 of the Annual Report.
174 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 1 Accounting policies continued That review determined that: Borrowings otherwise due for repayment within 12 months of balance date are now classified as non-current only if the committed refinancing Antamina, Cerrejn, Newcastle Infrastructure Group, Cleopatra facility is with the same lender and on the same or similar terms.
Oil Pipeline and Caesar Oil Pipeline arrangements no longer meet Under the previous policy, it was not necessary for such facilities the definition of unanimous consent and therefore will be to be with the same party for the borrowings to be classified as accounted for under the requirements of the revised IAS 28 non-current.
This change in policy was adopted in light of amendments Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements recommended by Samarco and Richards Bay Minerals are classified as joint ventures the IASB, modifying criteria for the classification of such borrowings under IFRS 11 and therefore will be accounted for under the as current.
Borrowings of US$995 million drawn under the Groups requirements of the revised IAS 28 Investments in Associates commercial paper program have therefore been classified as current and Joint Ventures.
with no impact on comparative amounts as the program was As a result, the Group will no longer recognise its proportionate share undrawn in all prior periods presented in the financial statements.
of the revenue, expenses, assets, liabilities and cash flows of each of the above operations.
Commencing 1 July 2013, the Group will Principles of consolidation recognise its share of net assets on a single line in the Consolidated The financial statements of the Group include the consolidation Balance Sheet, its share of net profit on a single line in the of BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective Consolidated Income Statement and cash flows from dividends subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by either parent in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
Control exists where either parent entity has the power The following joint arrangements meet the definition of joint to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as operations and as a result, the Group will continue to recognise to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in its share of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows: the consolidated financial report from the date control commences Petroleum Joint Arrangements including Onshore US, Alumar, until the date control ceases.
Where the Groups interest is less than Worsley, Central Queensland Coal Associates, Gregory, Guinea 100 per cent, the interest attributable to outside shareholders is Alumina, Mozal and Phola Coal Processing.
The effects of all transactions between entities within the Group have been eliminated.
WAIO and EKATI contractual arrangements do not fall within the scope of either IFRS 10 or IFRS 11 and as a result, these operations Joint ventures will be accounted for under other IFRS.
The Group will continue The Group undertakes a number of business activities through to recognise its share of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities joint ventures.
Joint ventures are established through contractual and cash flows on a line by line basis in the financial statements.
arrangements that require the unanimous consent of each of the IFRS 13 AASB 13 Fair Value Measurement replaces fair value venturers regarding the strategic, financial and operating policies measurement guidance in individual IFRSs with a single source of the venture joint control.
The Groups joint ventures are of fair value measurement guidance.
of two types: Amendments to IAS 19 AASB 119 Employee Benefits.
Jointly controlled entities These amendments require all actuarial gains and losses to be recognised immediately in other comprehensive income A jointly controlled entity is a corporation, partnership or other entity consistent with current Group policy and require the expected in which each participant holds an interest.
A jointly controlled entity return on plan assets recognised in the income statement to operates in the same way as other entities, controlling the assets be calculated based on the rate used to discount the defined of the joint venture, earning its own income and incurring its own benefit obligation.
Amendments to IAS 31 AASB 132 Financial liabilities and expenses.
Interests in jointly controlled entities are Instruments: Presentation clarify the criteria for offsetting accounted for using the proportionate consolidation method, whereby financial assets and liabilities.
the Groups proportionate interest in the assets, liabilities, revenues IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine and expenses of jointly controlled entities are recognised within each requires an entity to recognise a production stripping asset only if applicable line item of the financial statements.
The share of jointly certain criteria are met.
controlled entities results is recognised in the Groups financial statements from the date that joint control commences until the These standards are available for early adoption in the 30 June 2012 date on which it ceases.
financial year as permitted by the Australian Corporations Act 2001 but have not been applied in the preparation of these financial Jointly controlled assets statements.
Except for the amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits, The Group has certain contractual arrangements with other participants none of these standards have been endorsed by the EU and hence to engage in joint activities involving the joint ownership of assets are not available for early adoption in the EU.
The potential impacts dedicated to the purposes of each venture.
These arrangements do on the financial statements of the Group of adopting these standards not create a jointly controlled entity as the venturers directly derive have not yet been determined unless otherwise indicated.
the benefits of operation of their jointly owned assets, rather than deriving returns from an interest in a separate entity.
Basis of measurement The financial statements of the Group include its share of the assets in The financial statements are drawn up on the basis of historical such joint ventures, together with the liabilities, revenues and expenses cost principles, except for derivative financial instruments and arising jointly or otherwise from those operations.
All such amounts certain other financial assets which are carried at fair value.
are measured in accordance with the terms of each arrangement, Currency of presentation which are usually in proportion to the Groups interest in the jointly All amounts are expressed in millions of US dollars, unless otherwise controlled assets.
stated, consistent with the predominant functional currency of the Business combinations Groups operations.
Business combinations that occurred between 1 July 2004 and Change in accounting policy 30 June 2009 were accounted for by applying the purchase method The accounting policies have been consistently applied by all of accounting, whereby the purchase consideration of the combination entities included in the Group consolidated financial statements is allocated to the identifiable net assets acquired.
Business combinations and are consistent with those applied in all prior years presented prior to 1 July 2004 have been accounted for in accordance with the other than changes required by the adoption of new and amended Groups previous policies under Australian GAAP and UK GAAP and accounting standards as discussed above and a change in accounting have not been restated.
policy relating to the basis on which borrowings are classified Business combinations undertaken from 1 July 2010 are accounted as current or non-current.
for by applying the acquisition method of accounting, whereby the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable net assets are measured on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 175 9.1 Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued risk-free interest rate: Goodwill market-based performance hurdles: Where the fair value of consideration paid for a business combination exceeds the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net non-vesting conditions.
assets acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
For equity-settled share awards granted on or before 7 November Where the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net 2002 and that remained unvested at 1 July 2004, the estimated cost assets acquired exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference is of share awards is charged to the income statement from grant date immediately recognised in the income statement.
The recognition and to the date of expected vesting.
The estimated cost of awards is based measurement of goodwill attributable to a non-controlling interest in on the market value of shares at the grant date or the intrinsic value a business combination is determined on a transaction by transaction of options awarded, adjusted to reflect the impact of performance basis.
Goodwill is not amortised, however its carrying amount is conditions, where applicable.
assessed annually against its recoverable amount as explained below under Impairment of non-current assets.
On the subsequent Where awards are forfeited because non-market based vesting disposal or termination of a previously acquired business, any conditions are not satisfied, the expense previously recognised remaining balance of associated goodwill is included in the is proportionately reversed.
Where shares in BHP Billiton Limited determination of the profit or loss on disposal or termination.
or BHP Billiton Plc are acquired by on-market purchases prior to settling vested entitlements, the cost of the acquired shares is carried Intangible assets as treasury shares and deducted from equity.
When awards are Amounts paid for the acquisition of identifiable intangible assets, satisfied by delivery of acquired shares, any difference between their such as software and licences, are capitalised at the fair value acquisition cost and the remuneration expense recognised is charged of consideration paid and are recorded at cost less accumulated directly to retained earnings.
The tax effect of awards granted is amortisation and impairment charges.
Identifiable intangible recognised in income tax expense, except to the extent that the total assets with a finite life are amortised on a straight-line basis over tax deductions are expected to exceed the cumulative remuneration their expected useful life, which is typically no greater than eight expense.
In this situation, the excess of the associated current or years.
The Group has no identifiable intangible assets for which deferred tax is recognised in other comprehensive income and forms the expected useful life is indefinite.
part of the employee share awards reserve.
Foreign currencies Sales revenue The Groups reporting currency and the functional currency of Revenue from the sale of goods and disposal of other assets the majority of its operations is the US dollar as this is assessed is recognised when persuasive evidence usually in the form to be the principal currency of the economic environments in of an executed sales agreement of an arrangement exists and: which they operate.
there has been a transfer of risks and rewards to the customer: Transactions denominated in foreign currencies currencies other no further work or processing is required by the Group: than the functional currency of an operation are recorded using the quantity and quality of the goods has been determined the exchange rate ruling at the date of the underlying transaction.
with reasonable accuracy: Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are the price is fixed or determinable: translated using the rate of exchange prevailing at year-end and the collectability is reasonably assured.
gains or losses on retranslation are included in the income statement, with the exception of foreign exchange gains or losses on foreign Revenue is therefore generally recognised when title passes.
In the currency provisions for site closure and rehabilitation, which are majority of sales for most commodities, sales agreements specify that capitalised in property, plant and equipment for operating sites.
title passes on the bill of lading date, which is the date the commodity is delivered to the shipping agent.
For these sales, revenue is recognised Exchange variations resulting from the retranslation at closing rate on the bill of lading date.
For certain sales principally coal sales to of the net investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures arising after adjoining power stations and diamond sales, title passes and revenue 1 July 2004 are accounted for in accordance with the policy stated is recognised when the goods have been delivered.
Exchange variations arising before this date were transferred to retained earnings at the date of transition to IFRS.
In cases where the terms of the executed sales agreement allow for an adjustment to the sales price based on a survey of the goods by the Subsidiaries and joint ventures that have functional currencies other customer for instance an assay for mineral content, recognition of the than US dollars translate their income statement items to US dollars sales revenue is based on the most recently determined estimate of using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of each transaction.
Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at year-end.
Exchange variations resulting from the retranslation For certain commodities, the sales price is determined on a provisional at closing rate of the net investment in such subsidiaries and joint basis at the date of sale: adjustments to the sales price subsequently ventures, together with differences between their income statement occurs based on movements in quoted market or contractual prices up items translated at actual and closing rates, are recognised in the to the date of final pricing.
The period between provisional invoicing foreign currency translation reserve.
For the purpose of foreign currency and final pricing is typically between 60 and 120 days.
Revenue on translation, the net investment in a foreign operation is determined provisionally priced sales is recognised based on the estimated fair inclusive of foreign currency intercompany balances for which value of the total consideration receivable.
The revenue adjustment settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales arrangements future.
The balance of the foreign currency translation reserve relating has the character of a commodity derivative.
Accordingly, the fair value to a foreign operation that is disposed of, or partially disposed of, of the final sales price adjustment is re-estimated continuously and is recognised in the income statement at the time of disposal.
changes in fair value are recognised as an adjustment to revenue.
In all cases, fair value is estimated by reference to forward market prices.
Share-based payments Revenue is not reduced for royalties and other taxes payable from the The fair value at grant date of equity settled share awards granted Groups production.
on or after 8 November 2002 is charged to the income statement over the period for which the benefits of employee services are The Group separately discloses sales of Group production from sales expected to be derived.
The corresponding accrued employee of third party products because of the significant difference in profit entitlement is recorded in the employee share awards reserve.
margin earned on these sales.
The fair value of awards is calculated using an option pricing Exploration and evaluation expenditure model which considers the following factors: Exploration and evaluation activity involves the search for mineral and exercise price: petroleum resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the expected life of the award: assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource.
current market price of the underlying shares: Exploration and evaluation activity includes: expected volatility: researching and analysing historical exploration data: expected dividends: gathering exploration data through topographical, geochemical and geophysical studies: 176 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 1 Accounting policies continued exploratory drilling, trenching and sampling: their estimated residual value over the estimated useful lives of the specific assets concerned, or the estimated life of the associated mine, determining and examining the volume and grade of the resource: field or lease, if shorter.
Estimates of residual values and useful lives surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements: are reassessed annually and any change in estimate is taken into conducting market and finance studies.
account in the determination of remaining depreciation charges.
Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific Depreciation commences on the date of commissioning.
The major exploration area are charged to the income statement.
Licence costs categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a unit paid in connection with a right to explore in an existing exploration of production and or straight-line basis using estimated lives indicated area are capitalised and amortised over the term of the permit.
However, where assets are dedicated to a mine, field or lease and are not readily transferable, the below useful lives are subject to Exploration and evaluation expenditure including amortisation the lesser of the asset categorys useful life and the life of the mine, of capitalised licence costs is charged to the income statement field or lease: as incurred except in the following circumstances, in which case Buildings 25 to 50 years the expenditure may be capitalised: Land not depreciated In respect of minerals activities: Plant and equipment 3 to 30 years straight-line the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area of interest which was previously acquired as an asset acquisition Mineral rights based on reserves on a or in a business combination and measured at fair value on and Petroleum interests unit of production basis acquisition: or Capitalised exploration, based on reserves on a unit evaluation and of production basis the existence of a commercially viable mineral deposit has development expenditure been established.
In respect of petroleum activities: Leased assets the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area Assets held under leases which result in the Group receiving of interest for which it is expected that the expenditure substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset will be recouped by future exploitation or sale: or finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value exploration and evaluation activity has not reached a stage of the property, plant and equipment or the estimated present value which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding finance lease obligation is included within interest Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure considered bearing liabilities.
The interest element is allocated to accounting to be tangible is recorded as a component of property, plant and periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest equipment at cost less impairment charges.
Otherwise, it is recorded on the remaining balance of the obligation.
as an intangible asset such as licences.
As the capitalised exploration Operating lease assets are not capitalised and rental payments are and evaluation expenditure asset is not available for use, it is not included in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the depreciated.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is lease term.
Provision is made for the present value of future operating monitored for indications of impairment.
Where a potential impairment lease payments in relation to surplus lease space when it is first is indicated, assessment is performed for each area of interest in determined that the space will be of no probable future benefit.
conjunction with the group of operating assets representing a cash Operating lease incentives are recognised as a liability when received generating unit to which the exploration is attributed.
Exploration and subsequently reduced by allocating lease payments between areas at which reserves have been discovered but require major rental expense and reduction of the liability.
capital expenditure before production can begin, are continually evaluated to ensure that commercial quantities of reserves exist Impairment of non-current assets or to ensure that additional exploration work is under way or Formal impairment tests are carried out annually for goodwill.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is no longer In addition, formal impairment tests for all assets are performed expected to be recovered it is charged to the income statement.
when there is an indication of impairment.
The Group conducts annually an internal review of asset values which is used as a Development expenditure source of information to assess for any indications of impairment.
When proved reserves are determined and development is External factors, such as changes in expected future prices, costs sanctioned, capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure and other market factors are also monitored to assess for indications is reclassified as assets under construction, and is disclosed as of impairment.
If any such indication exists, an estimate of the a component of property, plant and equipment.
All subsequent assets recoverable amount is calculated, being the higher of fair development expenditure is capitalised and classified as assets under value less direct costs to sell and the assets value in use.
construction provided commercial viability conditions continue to be satisfied.
Development expenditure is net of proceeds from the If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, sale of ore extracted during the development phase.
On completion the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the income of development, all assets included in assets under construction are statement so as to reduce the carrying amount in the balance sheet reclassified as either plant and equipment or other mineral assets.
Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained Property, plant and equipment from the sale of the asset in an arms length transaction between Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated knowledgeable and willing parties.
Fair value for mineral assets depreciation and impairment charges.
Cost is the fair value of is generally determined as the present value of the estimated future consideration given to acquire the asset at the time of its acquisition cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset, or construction and includes the direct cost of bringing the asset to including any expansion prospects, and its eventual disposal, using the location and condition necessary for operation and the estimated assumptions that an independent market participant may take into future cost of closure and rehabilitation of the facility.
These cash flows are discounted at an appropriate rate Other mineral assets to arrive at a net present value of the asset.
Other mineral assets comprise: Value in use is determined as the present value of the estimated future Capitalised exploration, evaluation and development expenditure cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset in including development stripping for properties now in production: its present form and its eventual disposal.
Value in use is determined Mineral rights and petroleum interests acquired: by applying assumptions specific to the Groups continued use and Capitalised production stripping as described below in Overburden cannot take into account future development.
are different to those used in calculating fair value and consequently the value in use calculation is likely to give a different result usually Depreciation of property, plant and equipment lower to a fair value calculation.
The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment including initial and any subsequent capital expenditure are depreciated to BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 177 9.1 Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued In testing for indications of impairment and performing impairment borrowings outstanding during the period to the average amount calculations, assets are considered as collective groups and referred of capitalised expenditure for the qualifying assets during the period.
to as cash generating units.
Cash generating units are the smallest Taxation identifiable group of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that Taxation on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash deferred tax.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly The impairment assessments are based on a range of estimates in equity, in which case the tax is recognised in equity.
and assumptions, including: Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income Estimates assumptions: Basis: for the year using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Future production proved and probable reserves, year-end, and includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect resource estimates and, in certain of previous years.
cases, expansion projects Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, Commodity prices forward market and contract providing for the tax effect of temporary differences between the prices, and longer-term price carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting protocol estimates purposes and the amounts used for tax assessment or deduction Exchange rates current forward market purposes.
Where an asset has no deductible or depreciable amount exchange rates for income tax purposes, but has a deductible amount on sale or Discount rates cost of capital risk-adjusted abandonment for capital gains tax purposes, that amount is included appropriate to the resource in the determination of temporary differences.
The tax effect of certain temporary differences is not recognised, principally with respect to: Overburden removal costs goodwill: temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of Overburden and other mine waste materials are often removed assets or liabilities other than those arising in a business combination during the initial development of a mine site in order to access the or in a manner that initially impacted accounting or taxable profit : mineral deposit.
This activity is referred to as development stripping.
and temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries, The directly attributable costs inclusive of an allocation of relevant jointly controlled entities and associates to the extent that the Group overhead expenditure are initially capitalised as assets under is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is construction.
Capitalisation of development stripping costs ceases probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the at the time that saleable material begins to be extracted from the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax recognised is based mine.
On completion of development, all capitalised development on the expected manner and timing of realisation or settlement of the stripping included in assets under construction is transferred to carrying amount of assets and liabilities, with the exception of items other mineral assets.
that have a tax base solely derived under capital gains tax legislation, Production stripping commences at the time that saleable materials using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at period end.
begin to be extracted from the mine and normally continues To the extent that an items tax base is solely derived from the throughout the life of a mine.
The costs of production stripping are amount deductible under capital gains tax legislation, deferred charged to the income statement as operating costs when the ratio tax is determined as if such amounts are deductible in determining of waste material to ore extracted for an area of interest is expected future assessable income.
to be constant throughout its estimated life.
When the ratio of waste A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable to ore is not expected to be constant, production stripping costs are that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset accounted for as follows: can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance All costs are initially charged to the income statement and classified sheet date and amended to the extent that it is no longer probable as operating costs.
that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and When the current ratio of waste to ore is greater than the estimated liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the life-of-mine ratio, a portion of the stripping costs inclusive of an same taxation authority and the Group has both the right and the allocation of relevant overhead expenditure is capitalised to other intention to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net or mineral assets.
In subsequent years when the ratio of waste to ore is less than Royalties and resource rent taxes are treated as taxation the estimated life-of-mine ratio, a portion of capitalised stripping arrangements when they have the characteristics of a tax.
This is costs is charged to the income statement as operating costs.
considered to be the case when they are imposed under government The amount of production stripping costs capitalised or charged authority and the amount payable is calculated by reference to in a financial year is determined so that the stripping expense revenue derived net of any allowable deductions after adjustment for the financial year reflects the estimated life-of-mine ratio.
For such arrangements, current and Changes to the estimated life-of-mine ratio are accounted for deferred tax is provided on the same basis as described above for prospectively from the date of the change.
Obligations arising from royalty arrangements that do not satisfy these criteria are recognised as current provisions Inventories and included in expenses.
Inventories, including work in progress, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined primarily on Provision for employee benefits the basis of average costs.
For processed inventories, cost is derived Provision is made in the financial statements for all employee on an absorption costing basis.
Cost comprises cost of purchasing benefits, including on-costs.
In relation to industry-based long raw materials and cost of production, including attributable mining service leave funds, the Groups liability, including obligations and manufacturing overheads.
In respect of minerals inventory, for funding shortfalls, is determined after deducting the fair quantities are assessed primarily through surveys and assays.
value of dedicated assets of such funds.
In respect of petroleum inventory, quantities are derived through Liabilities for unpaid wages and salaries are recognised in sundry flow rate or tank volume measurement: volume calculation and creditors.
Current entitlements to annual leave and accumulating composition is derived via sample analysis.
sick leave accrued for services up to the reporting date are recognised Finance costs in provision for employee benefits and are measured at the amounts expected to be paid.
Entitlements to non-accumulating sick leave are Finance costs are generally expensed as incurred except where they recognised when the leave is taken.
relate to the financing of construction or development of qualifying assets requiring a substantial period of time to prepare for their The current liability for long service leave for which settlement within intended future use.
Finance costs are capitalised up to the date 12 months of the reporting date cannot be deferred is recognised when the asset is ready for its intended use.
The amount of finance in the current provision for employee benefits and is measured costs capitalised before the effects of income tax for the period in accordance with annual leave described above.
The non-current is determined by applying the interest rate applicable to appropriate liability for long service leave is recognised in the non-current 178 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 1 Accounting policies continued provision for employee benefits and measured as the present value requirements.
The majority of the expenditure is expected to be paid of expected future payments to be made in respect of services provided over periods of up to 50 years with some payments into perpetuity.
by employees up to the reporting date.
Consideration is given to Closure and rehabilitation provisions are measured at the expected expected future wage and salary levels, experience of employee value of future cash flows, discounted to their present value and departures and periods of service.
Expected future payments are determined according to the probability of alternative estimates discounted using market yields at the reporting date on national of cash flows occurring for each operation.
Discount rates used are government bonds with terms to maturity and currency that match, specific to the country in which the operation is located.
Significant as closely as possible, the estimated future cash outflows.
judgements and estimates are involved in forming expectations of future activities and the amount and timing of the associated cash Superannuation, pensions and other post-retirement benefits flows.
Those expectations are formed based on existing environmental The Group operates or participates in a number of pension including and regulatory requirements or, if more stringent, Group superannuation schemes throughout the world.
The funding of the environmental policies which give rise to a constructive obligation.
schemes complies with local regulations.
The assets of the schemes are generally held separately from those of the Group and are When provisions for closure and rehabilitation are initially recognised, administered by trustees or management boards.
the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, representing part of the cost of acquiring the future economic benefits of the operation.
For defined contribution schemes or schemes operated on an The capitalised cost of closure and rehabilitation activities is recognised industry-wide basis where it is not possible to identify assets in property, plant and equipment and depreciated accordingly.
attributable to the participation by the Groups employees, the The value of the provision is progressively increased over time as pension charge is calculated on the basis of contributions payable.
the effect of discounting unwinds, creating an expense recognised For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing pensions is charged in financial expenses.
to the income statement so as to recognise current and past service Closure and rehabilitation provisions are also adjusted for changes costs, interest cost on defined benefit obligations, and the effect in estimates.
Those adjustments are accounted for as a change of any curtailments or settlements, net of expected returns on plan in the corresponding capitalised cost, except where a reduction in assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
the provision is greater than the undepreciated capitalised cost of the An asset or liability is consequently recognised in the balance sheet related assets, in which case the capitalised cost is reduced to nil and based on the present value of defined benefit obligations, less any the remaining adjustment is recognised in the income statement.
unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of plan assets, In the case of closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised except that any such asset cannot exceed the total of unrecognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes to the capitalised cost past service costs and the present value of expected refunds from result in an adjustment to future depreciation.
Adjustments to the and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Defined benefit estimated amount and timing of future closure and rehabilitation cash obligations are estimated by discounting expected future payments flows are a normal occurrence in light of the significant judgements using market yields at the reporting date on high-quality corporate and estimates involved.
Factors influencing those changes include: bonds in countries that have developed corporate bond markets.
revisions to estimated reserves, resources and lives of operations: However, where developed corporate bond markets do not exist, the discount rates are selected by reference to national government developments in technology: bonds.
In both instances, the bonds are selected with terms regulatory requirements and environmental management strategies: to maturity and currency that match, as closely as possible, changes in the estimated extent and costs of anticipated activities, the estimated future cash flows.
including the effects of inflation and movements in foreign exchange rates: Certain Group companies provide post-retirement medical benefits to qualifying retirees.
In some cases the benefits are provided through movements in interest rates affecting the discount rate applied.
medical care schemes to which the Group, the employees, the retirees Financial instruments and covered family members contribute.
In some schemes there All financial assets are initially recognised at the fair value of is no funding of the benefits before retirement.
Subsequently, financial assets are carried at are recognised on the same basis as described above for defined fair value or amortised cost less impairment.
Where non-derivative benefit pension schemes.
financial assets are carried at fair value, gains and losses on Closure and rehabilitation remeasurement are recognised directly in equity unless the financial The mining, extraction and processing activities of the Group normally assets have been designated as being held at fair value through give rise to obligations for site closure or rehabilitation.
Closure and profit or loss, in which case the gains and losses are recognised rehabilitation works can include facility decommissioning and directly in the income statement.
Financial assets are designated dismantling: removal or treatment of waste materials: site and land as being held at fair value through profit or loss when this is necessary rehabilitation.
The extent of work required and the associated costs to reduce measurement inconsistencies for related assets and are dependent on the requirements of relevant authorities and the liabilities.
All financial liabilities other than derivatives are initially Groups environmental policies.
recognised at fair value of consideration received net of transaction costs as appropriate initial cost and subsequently carried at Provisions for the cost of each closure and rehabilitation program amortised cost.
are recognised at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
When the extent of disturbance increases over the life of an operation, Derivatives, including those embedded in other contractual the provision is increased accordingly.
Costs included in the provision arrangements but separated for accounting purposes because they encompass all closure and rehabilitation activity expected to occur are not clearly and closely related to the host contract, are initially progressively over the life of the operation and at the time of closure recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into in connection with disturbances at the reporting date.
Routine operating and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method costs that may impact the ultimate closure and rehabilitation activities, of recognising the resulting gain or loss on remeasurement depends such as waste material handling conducted as an integral part of on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, a mining or production process, are not included in the provision.
and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The measurement Costs arising from unforeseen circumstances, such as the contamination of fair value is based on quoted market prices.
Where no price caused by unplanned discharges, are recognised as an expense and information is available from a quoted market source, alternative liability when the event gives rise to an obligation which is probable market mechanisms or recent comparable transactions, fair value and capable of reliable estimation.
is estimated based on the Groups views on relevant future prices, net of valuation allowances to accommodate liquidity, modelling The timing of the actual closure and rehabilitation expenditure and other risks implicit in such estimates.
is dependent upon a number of factors such as the life and nature of the asset, the operating licence conditions, the principles of Forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps held for hedging the Groups charter and the environment in which the mine operates.
purposes are accounted for as either cash flow or fair value hedges.
Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for Derivatives embedded within other contractual arrangements and the an extended period of time dependent on closure and rehabilitation majority of commodity-based transactions executed through derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 179 9.1 Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Estimating the quantity and or grade of reserves requires the size, Fair value hedges shape and depth of ore bodies or fields to be determined by analysing Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and geological data such as drilling samples.
This process may require qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, complex and difficult geological judgements to interpret the data.
together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Any difference The Group determines and reports ore reserves in Australia and the between the change in fair value of the derivative and the hedged UK under the principles incorporated in the Australasian Code for risk constitutes ineffectiveness of the hedge and is recognised Reporting Exploration Results of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves immediately in the income statement.
December 2004, known as the JORC Code.
The JORC Code requires the use of reasonable investment assumptions when reporting Cash flow hedges reserves.
As a result, management will form a view of forecast sales The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives prices, based on current and long-term historical average price trends.
that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised For example, if current prices remain above long-term historical in equity in the hedging reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the averages for an extended period of time, management may assume ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
that lower prices will prevail in the future and as a result, those lower Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement prices are used to estimate reserves under the JORC Code.
Lower price in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
However, assumptions generally result in lower estimates of reserves.
when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition Reserve reporting requirements for SEC United States of America of a non-financial asset for example, plant and equipment purchases filings are specified in Industry Guide 7, which requires economic or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred assumptions to be based on current economic conditions which in equity are transferred from equity and included in the measurement may differ from assumptions based on reasonable investment of the initial carrying amount of the asset or liability.
Accordingly, for SEC filings, we test our reserve When a hedging instrument expires or is sold or terminated, or estimates derived under JORC against assumed current economic when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, conditions.
Current economic conditions are based on the three-year any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains average of historical contract and market prices for commodities such in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately as iron ore and coal, and the three-year average of historical market recognised in the income statement.
When a hedged forecast prices for commodities that are traded on the London Metal Exchange, transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative hedge such as copper and nickel.
However, we only report a different reserve gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred in the US if, based on the US SEC pricing assumptions test, the reserve to the income statement.
will be lower than that reported under JORC in Australia and the UK.
Oil and gas reserves reported in Australia and the UK, and the US for Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting SEC filing purposes, are based on the average of prices prevailing on Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
the first day of each month for the past 12 months as required under Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does the SEC Rules Modernisation of Oil & Gas Reporting.
Reserves reported not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in prior periods are based on the prices prevailing at the time of the in the income statement.
estimates as previously required by Statement of Financial Accounting Available for sale and trading investments Standards No.
69 Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities, issued by the US Financial Accounting Standards Board.
Available for sale and trading investments are measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on the remeasurement of trading investments Because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change are recognised directly in the income statement.
Gains and losses from period to period, and because additional geological data is on the remeasurement of available for sale investments are recognised generated during the course of operations, estimates of reserves directly in equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement may change from period to period.
Changes in reported reserves when realised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction in fair value may affect the Groups financial results and financial position is judged to represent an impairment.
in a number of ways, including the following: Application of critical accounting policies and estimates Asset carrying amounts may be affected due to changes in estimated future cash flows.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements and estimates and form assumptions Depreciation, depletion and amortisation charged in the income that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the statement may change where such charges are determined by the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements, units of production basis, or where the useful economic lives of and the reported revenue and expenses during the periods presented assets change.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its judgements Overburden removal costs recorded on the balance sheet or charged and estimates in relation to assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities, to the income statement may change due to changes in stripping revenue and expenses.
Management bases its judgements and ratios or the units of production basis of depreciation.
estimates on historical experience and on other factors it believes Decommissioning, site restoration and environmental provisions to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form may change where changes in estimated reserves affect the basis of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are expectations about the timing or cost of these activities.
not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ The carrying amount of deferred tax assets may change due from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
to changes in estimates of the likely recovery of the tax benefits.
The Group has identified the following critical accounting policies Exploration and evaluation expenditure under which significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are The Groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation made and where actual results may differ from these estimates under expenditure results in certain items of expenditure being capitalised different assumptions and conditions and may materially affect for an area of interest where it is considered likely to be recoverable financial results or the financial position reported in future periods.
by future exploitation or sale or where the activities have not reached Further details of the nature of these assumptions and conditions may a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of be found in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
This policy requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions as to future events and circumstances, in particular Reserve estimates whether an economically viable extraction operation can be established.
Reserves are estimates of the amount of product that can be Any such estimates and assumptions may change as new information economically and legally extracted from the Groups properties.
If, after having capitalised the expenditure under In order to estimate reserves, estimates are required about a range the policy, a judgement is made that recovery of the expenditure is of geological, technical and economic factors, including quantities, unlikely, the relevant capitalised amount will be written off to the grades, production techniques, recovery rates, production costs, income statement.
transport costs, commodity demand, commodity prices and exchange rates.
180 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 1 Accounting policies continued costs of required closure and rehabilitation activity.
These uncertainties Development expenditure may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts Development activities commence after project sanctioning by the currently provided.
Judgement is applied by management in determining when a project is economically viable.
In exercising The provision recognised for each site is periodically reviewed this judgement, management is required to make certain estimates and updated based on the facts and circumstances available at the and assumptions similar to those described above for capitalised time.
Changes to the estimated future costs for operating sites are exploration and evaluation expenditure.
Any such estimates and recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting both the closure and assumptions may change as new information becomes available.
For closed sites, changes to If, after having commenced the development activity, a judgement estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
is made that a development asset is impaired, the appropriate In addition to the uncertainties noted above, certain closure and amount will be written off to the income statement.
rehabilitation activities are subject to legal disputes and depending Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets on the ultimate resolution of these issues, the final liability for these recoverable amount matters could vary.
In accordance with the Groups accounting policy, each asset or Taxation cash generating unit is evaluated every reporting period to determine The Groups accounting policy for taxation, including royalty-related whether there are any indications of impairment.
If any such indication taxation, requires managements judgement as to the types of exists, a formal estimate of recoverable amount is performed and arrangements considered to be a tax on income in contrast to an an impairment loss recognised to the extent that carrying amount operating cost.
Judgement is also required in assessing whether exceeds recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset deferred tax assets and certain deferred tax liabilities are recognised or cash generating group of assets is measured at the higher of fair on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising value less costs to sell and value in use.
from unrecouped tax losses, capital losses, foreign tax credits and The determination of fair value and value in use requires management temporary differences, are recognised only where it is considered more to make estimates and assumptions about expected production and likely than not that they will be recovered, which is dependent on the sales volumes, commodity prices considering current and historical generation of sufficient future taxable profits.
Deferred tax liabilities prices, price trends and related factors, reserves see Reserve arising from temporary differences in investments, caused principally estimates above, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs by retained earnings held in foreign tax jurisdictions, are recognised and future capital expenditure.
These estimates and assumptions unless repatriation of retained earnings can be controlled and are are subject to risk and uncertainty: hence there is a possibility that not expected to occur in the foreseeable future.
changes in circumstances will alter these projections, which may Assumptions about the generation of future taxable profits and impact the recoverable amount of the assets.
In such circumstances, repatriation of retained earnings depend on managements estimates some or all of the carrying amount of the assets may be further of future cash flows.
These depend on estimates of future production impaired or the impairment charge reduced with the impact recorded and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves, operating costs, in the income statement.
closure and rehabilitation costs, capital expenditure, dividends and Defined benefit pension schemes other capital management transactions.
Judgements are also required about the application of income tax legislation and its interaction with The Groups accounting policy for defined benefit pension schemes income tax accounting principles.
These judgements and assumptions requires management to make judgements as to the nature of benefits are subject to risk and uncertainty, hence there is a possibility that provided by each scheme and thereby determine the classification changes in circumstances will alter expectations, which may impact of each scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, management is required the amount of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities to make annual estimates and assumptions about future returns recognised on the balance sheet and the amount of other tax losses on classes of scheme assets, future remuneration changes, employee and temporary differences not yet recognised.
In such circumstances, attrition rates, administration costs, changes in benefits, inflation some or all of the carrying amount of recognised deferred tax assets rates, exchange rates, life expectancy and expected remaining periods and liabilities may require adjustment, resulting in a corresponding of service of employees.
In making these estimates and assumptions, credit or charge to the income statement.
management considers advice provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
Where actual experience differs to these estimates, actuarial Rounding of amounts gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
Refer to note 29 Amounts in these financial statements have, unless otherwise for details of the key assumptions.
indicated, been rounded to the nearest million dollars.
Provision for closure and rehabilitation Comparatives The Groups accounting policy for the recognition of closure and Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to measure rehabilitation provisions requires significant estimates and assumptions or present them on the same basis as current period figures.
such as: requirements of the relevant legal and regulatory framework: Certain comparatives have also been restated on finalisation the magnitude of possible contamination: and the timing, extent and of business combination accounting refer note 24.
