Group Management Committee The role of the Group Management Committee GMC is to provide advice to the Chief Executive Officer on matters that are strategic and long-term in nature or have the potential to significantly impact the Groups performance and reputation.
The GMC is the senior management team at BHP Billiton.
Marius Kloppers has been active Marius Kloppers in the mining and resources industry BE Chem, MBA, PhD Materials Science, 50 since 1993 and was appointed Chief Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director Executive Officer in October 2007.
Chairman of the Group Management Committee Mr Kloppers was previously Chief Commercial Officer, Chief Marketing Officer, Group Executive of Billiton Plc, Chief Executive of Samancor Manganese and held various positions at Billiton Aluminium, among them Chief Operating Officer and General Manager of Hillside Aluminium.
Alberto Calderon joined BHP Billiton as Alberto Calderon President Diamonds and Specialty Products PhD Econ, M Phil Econ, JD Law, BA Econ, 52 in February 2006 and was appointed Group Group Executive and Chief Executive Aluminium, Executive and Chief Commercial Officer Nickel & Corporate Development in July 2007.
In December 2011, he was Member of the Group Management Committee appointed to his current position, Group Executive and Chief Executive Aluminium, Nickel & Corporate Development.
Prior to joining BHP Billiton, Mr Calderon was Chief Executive Officer of Cerrejn Coal Company and Chief Executive Officer of the Colombian oil company, Ecopetrol.
He has held senior roles in investment banking, the Colombian Government and the International Monetary Fund.
Mike Henry joined the Group in 2003 Mike Henry and was appointed Chief Marketing BSc Chem, 46 Officer in November 2011.
Prior to this, Group Executive and Chief Marketing Officer he was President Marketing.
Mr Henrys Member of the Group Management Committee earlier career with BHP Billiton included various business development and marketing roles, including Marketing Director for Petroleum, Marketing Director for Energy Coal & Freight and Vice President Business Development for the Energy Coal Customer Sector Group.
Prior to joining BHP Billiton, Mr Henry worked for Mitsubishi Corporation, where he held a number of commercial roles.
8 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2012 Graham Kerr joined the Group in 1994 Graham Kerr and was appointed Chief Financial Officer BBus, FCPA, 41 in November 2011.
Prior to this, he was Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer President of Diamonds and Specialty Member of the Group Management Committee Products.
Mr Kerr has worked in a wide and Chairman of the Investment Committee and range of finance, treasury and operational Financial Risk Management Committee roles across the Group, and has held the positions of Chief Financial Officer of Stainless Steel Materials, Vice President Finance BHP Billiton Diamonds and Finance Director for EKATI.
In 2004, Mr Kerr left BHP Billiton for a two-year period when he was General Manager Commercial for Iluka Resources Ltd. Andrew Mackenzie joined BHP Billiton Andrew Mackenzie in November 2008 in his current position BSc Geology, PhD Chemistry, 55 as Chief Executive Non-Ferrous.
Group Executive and Chief Executive Non-Ferrous Mr Mackenzies prior career included Member of the Group Management Committee time with Rio Tinto, where he was Chief Executive of Diamonds and Minerals, and with BP, where he held a number of senior roles, including Group Vice President for Technology and Engineering and Group Vice President for Chemicals.
Mr Mackenzie is a Non-executive Director of Centrica plc.
Marcus Randolph Marcus Randolph was previously Chief Organisation Development Officer, BSc, MBA, 56 President Diamonds and Specialty Group Executive and Chief Executive Ferrous & Coal Products, Chief Development Officer Member of the Group Management Committee Minerals and Chief Strategic Officer Minerals for BHP Billiton.
Mr Randolphs prior career includes Chief Executive Officer, First Dynasty Mines, Mining and Minerals Executive, Rio Tinto Plc, Director of Acquisitions and Strategy, Kennecott Inc, and various mine operating positions in the United States and Peru with Asarco Inc. Mr Randolph has been in his current position as Chief Executive Ferrous & Coal since July 2007.
Karen Wood Karen Wood joined BHP Billiton in 2001.
Ms Woods previous positions with the BEd, LLB Hons, 56 Company were Chief Governance Officer, Group Executive and Chief People Special Adviser and Head of Group & Public Affairs Officer Secretariat and Group Company Member of the Group Management Committee Secretary.
Ms Wood was appointed Chief People Officer in 2007 and in 2010 assumed responsibility for Public Affairs.
Before joining BHP Billiton, she was General Counsel and Company Secretary for Bonlac Foods Limited.
Ms Wood is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
J Michael Yeager Mike Yeager joined the Group in April 2006 as Chief Executive Petroleum after BSc, MSc, 59 25 years with Mobil and later ExxonMobil.
Group Executive and Chief Executive Petroleum Mr Yeager was previously Vice President, Member of the Group Management Committee ExxonMobil Development Company, and held the roles of Senior Vice President, Imperial Oil Ltd and Chief Executive Officer, Imperial Oil Resources, Vice President Africa, ExxonMobil Production Company, Vice President Europe, ExxonMobil Production Company and President, Mobil Exploration and Production in the United States.
BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2012 | 9 Diamonds and Specialty Products Uranium Olympic Dam Australia Jansen Potash Project Canada We invest in large, long-life, low-cost and expandable assets.
Iron Ore Port Hedland Australia 10 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2012 Petroleum Neptune Gulf of Mexico When we do, our operational discipline and financial strength enables our future growth.
Base Metals Spence Chile BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2012 | 11
