1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report D E L E G A T I O N 5.13.5 Finance Committee Report Role and focus BHP Billiton governance structure Finance Committee The role of the Finance Committee is to assist the Board in its consideration for approval and ongoing oversight SHAREHOLDERS of matters pertaining to: capital structure and funding: capital management planning and initiatives: due diligence on acquisitions and investments, including proposals that may have a material impact on the Groups capital position: matters the Board may refer to the Committee from time to time in connection with the Groups capital position.
The Board is of the view that our governance structure is enhanced by a committee that focuses on capital structure and funding, capital management planning and initiatives, The Finance Committee met four times during the year.
The formation of the Committee brought together the work of previous sub-committees of the Board and assisted the work Recognising that the focus of the Committees activities of the Board by considering matters relating to capital structure encompasses matters of strategy reserved for the Board, and funding, capital management planning and initiatives, the Committee does not, as a matter of course, have a due diligence on acquisitions and divestments and other decision-making role.
Instead, its focus is to advise the matters referred to the Committee.
The Committees Board and make recommendations.
The Board may, where considerations resulted in recommendations to the Board it considers it appropriate, delegate decision-making power on the matters considered.
to the Committee in relation to specific matters.
Finance Committee members during the year established in April 2012 The Board recognises that in establishing a new Board committee, it is important to avoid introducing complexity Name Status or overlap in the current governance framework.
The matters David Crawford Chairman Member since Committee established specified for the consideration of the Finance Committee are not within the current scope or mandate of any of the other Malcolm Broomhead Member since Committee established Board committees because they were previously dealt with Lindsay Maxsted Member since Committee established by ad hoc committees.
However, to avoid any perceived overlap of responsibilities, the terms of reference of each Wayne Murdy Member since Committee established of the Finance Committee and the RAC allow the respective committee chairmen to agree the most appropriate committee Committee evaluation to fulfil the obligation in question.
As part of the Boards commitment to continuous improvement, The role of the Finance Committee in the context of the role and functions of the Finance Committee will be evaluated not later than 12 months after its establishment.
BHP Billitons broader governance framework is summarised in the diagram opposite.
