5 Corporate Governance Statement continued Political donations 5.16 Business conduct We maintain a position of impartiality with respect to party politics Code of Business Conduct and do not make political contributions donations for political We have published the Code of Business Conduct.
The Code purposes to any political party, politician, elected official or candidate of Business Conduct reflects Our Charter values of integrity and for public office.
We do, however, contribute to the public debate respect.
It provides clear direction and advice on conducting business of policy issues that may affect our business in the countries internationally, interacting with communities, governments and in which we operate.
business partners and general workplace behaviour.
The Code of Business Conduct applies to Directors and to all employees, regardless 5.17 Diversity at BHP Billiton of their position or location.
Consultants and contractors are also expected to act in accordance with the Code of Business Conduct.
The BHP Billiton Human Resources Policy guides the Board and management on all aspects of human resource management.
The Human Resources Policy is supported by processes that set The Code of Business Conduct can be found on our out measurable objectives to support the achievement of diversity website atw w w. bhpbilliton.
com home aboutus across the Group.
The Board believes that critical mass is important ourcompany Pages codeofbusconduct.
for diversity and, in relation to gender, has set an aspirational goal of increasing the number of women on the Board to at least three Anti-corruption investigation over the next two years.
The Board continues to focus on diversity in the context of the overall skills and experience mix on the Board.
Following requests for information in August 2009 from the US Securities and Exchange Commission, the Group commenced See section 5.7 for further detail about gender diversity on the Board.
In addition, the Board considers and approves the Groups an internal investigation and disclosed to relevant authorities evidence that it has uncovered regarding possible violations measurable objectives, and oversees the Groups progress.
Further information about the Groups measurable objectives and progress of applicable anti-corruption laws involving interactions with government officials.
The internal investigation is continuing against those objectives is set out below.
and the Group is cooperating with the relevant authorities and reporting the facts found in the investigation.
It is not possible at this time to predict the likely outcomes of the matter.
Our Human Resources Policy can be found on our website atw w w. bhpbilliton.
com home aboutus Insider trading ourcompany Pages governance.
We have a Securities Dealing GLD that covers dealings by Directors and identified employees, is consistent with the UK Model Code Our approach to diversity is underpinned by key principles, including: contained in the UK Financial Services Authority Listing Rules and a diverse workforce is necessary to the delivery of our strategy complies with the ASX Listing Rule requirements for a trading policy.
that is predicated on diversification by commodity, geography The Securities Dealing GLD restricts dealings by Directors and and market: identified employees in shares and other securities during designated prohibited periods and at any time that they are in possession our aspiration is to have a workforce that best represents the communities in which our assets are located and our of unpublished price-sensitive information.
As part of a regular, planned process, the Securities Dealing GLD was reviewed in employees live: FY2012 to ensure it remains current, fit for purpose and in line actions that support our diversity aspirations should be consistent with our broader governance framework.
with our established approach to talent, performance and reward: achieving an appropriate level of diversity will require structured programs at an early career stage that ensure the development A copy of the Securities Dealing GLD can be found on of necessary skills and experience for leadership roles: our website atw w w. bhpbilliton.
com home aboutus measurable objectives in support of diversity will be transparent, ourcompany Pages governance.
achievable over a period of time and fit for purpose: the set of measurable objectives will focus on i enabling Business Conduct Advisory Service a diverse workforce by way of removing barriers and We have established a Business Conduct Advisory Service so that ii establishing appropriate representation targets.
employees can seek guidance or express concerns on business-related Progress against measurable objectives issues and report cases of suspected misappropriations, fraud, bribery In FY2011, we committed to three key measurable objectives or corruption.
Reports can be made anonymously and without fear to enhance our gender diversity profile.
A summary of those of retaliation.
Arrangements are in place to investigate such matters.
objectives and a report of our progress is set out below: Where appropriate, investigations are conducted independently.
Levels of activity and support processes for the Business Conduct Continue to focus on increasing female participation in Advisory Service are monitored, with activity reports presented the Accelerated Leadership Development Program ALDP, to the Board.
Further information on the Business Conduct Advisory moving to 40 per cent for FY2012.
We are pleased to report Service can be found in the Code of Business Conduct.
that participation in the ALDP was 29 per cent in FY2011 and is 43 per cent for FY2012.
Reviewing our graduate recruitment process and identifying and implementing the necessary actions to address low female representation.
The following are highlights of the work executed during FY2012 to increase female graduate intake representation: The Australian Graduate Intake Recruitment campaign incorporated a number of new initiatives focused on attracting female graduates such as: targeted digital media advertising, active promotion of female graduate opportunities directly with university faculties and featuring graduate opportunities for women in our marketing materials, industry events and engagement activities.
