3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued of which form the basis of making judgements about the carrying 3.4.
10 Insurance continued values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from The Group continues to be largely self-insured for losses arising from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under property damage and business interruption, sabotage and terrorism, different assumptions and conditions.
For these risks, we internally insure our operations for wholly owned assets and for our share of joint venture We have identified the following critical accounting policies under assets via our captive insurance companies.
Any losses incurred will which significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are made consequently impact the financial statements as they arise.
and where actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and may materially affect During FY2012, insurance claims relating to extreme weather across financial results or the financial position reported in future periods: central Queensland in 2008 were settled.
Proceeds of US$300 million reserve estimates: have been treated as an exceptional item refer to section 3.6.
exploration and evaluation expenditure: development expenditure: property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 3.5 Application of critical accounting policies recoverable amount: The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires defined benefit pension schemes: management to make estimates and judgements that affect the provision for closure and rehabilitation: reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent taxation.
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported revenue and expenses during the periods presented therein.
In accordance with IFRS, we are required to include information On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and regarding the nature of the estimates and judgements and potential judgements in relation to assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities, impacts on our financial results or financial position in the financial revenue and expenses.
Management bases its estimates and statements.
This information can be found in note 1 Accounting judgements on historical experience and on various other factors policies to the financial statements.
it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results 3.6 Operating results The following tables provide a summary of the CSG Revenue and Underlying EBIT for FY2012 and the two prior corresponding periods.
Our use of Underlying EBIT is explained in section 3.6.
2 Revenue that is not reported in business segments principally includes sales of freight and fuel to third parties.
3 Includes consolidation adjustments, unallocated items and external sales for the Groups freight, transport and logistics operations and certain closed operations.
