1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.4.
4 Review of GMC remuneration arrangements during FY2012 As foreshadowed in our 2011 Remuneration Report, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed the remuneration arrangements for members of the GMC.
The review began in 2011 and continued into 2012.
Our current remuneration arrangements, including the changes to the LTIP approved by shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meetings AGMs, have served us well.
The changes in 2010 included several measures designed to deleverage the LTIP and reduce the number of awards granted accordingly: for example, through TSR performance being benchmarked against a broader comparator group sector peer companies 67 per cent and Morgan Stanley Capital Index MSCI World index 33 per cent.
Out-pay for out-performance had been an explicit design feature in 2004, but by 2010 there was a recognition among shareholders, the Board and management that leverage should be reduced.
Notwithstanding these changes in 2010, the Committee remains cognisant of the changing needs of shareholders, participants and the Group, and a review was considered prudent.
The Committees aims in undertaking the review were to ensure our remuneration policy continues to reinforce the Groups strategy: to review the external environment in which we operate and how that environment may evolve: consider the global market status, the risk environment and strategic priorities for BHP Billiton: develop proposals that support our focus on operational excellence, risk management and execution of the Groups strategy: and meet expectations inherent in effective governance and clear reporting.
The review confirmed that our current remuneration arrangements, including the changes to the LTIP approved in 2010, remain appropriate and support our focus on operational excellence, risk management and the execution of the Groups strategy.
Accordingly, despite there being several options that have some attractive features, including the introduction of long-term KPIs as a second LTIP performance measure in addition to TSR, the Committee concluded that a compelling case has not been made to change our arrangements at this time.
Our current relative TSR approach is well understood, transparent and simple, and is demonstrably aligned to the interests of shareholders, particularly through its five-year duration, longer than most other LTI plans in the market.
It is difficult to identify substantive long-term KPIs as a second measure that are differentiated from TSR or are not already covered in the STI plan.
The Committee noted that such KPIs do not generally have the transparency and rigour preferred by both shareholders and participants.
Nevertheless, the Committee believes there is merit in the search for a second measure that does not replicate TSR or the STI metrics, to operate in conjunction with TSR to measure performance under the LTIP.
The Committee is also aware through consultations with shareholders that this is a shared view, albeit with disparate views on the nature of the second measure.
Accordingly, the Committee will continue to seek further opportunities to enhance our LTIP and our remuneration arrangements generally.
In conducting this review and reaching this conclusion, the Committee has been supported by its independent adviser, Kepler Associates.
6.5 Setting Total Remuneration for the GMC 6.5.
1 How Total Remuneration is determined The Remuneration Committee considers the appropriate Total Remuneration for each member of the GMC by examining the remuneration provided to comparable roles in organisations of similar global complexity, size, reach and industry.
Each year, the Committees independent adviser, Kepler Associates, sources and consolidates relevant remuneration data for appropriate roles, based on their analysis of relevant organisations and markets.
The adviser prepares a comparison to current GMC remuneration, but does not make specific recommendations regarding individual executives remuneration.
For more information on the services provided to the Committee by Kepler Associates, please refer to section 6.3.
From this market comparison, the Committee determines the appropriate Total Remuneration level for each individual, taking into account their location, skills, experience and performance within the Group.
In doing so, the Committee recognises that levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled executives, but also that the Group should avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
Total Remuneration is allocated across different elements of remuneration to reflect a balance between fixed and variable remuneration and between shortand long-term incentives.
The mix of remuneration elements and how the remuneration outcome from each element is impacted by performance are described in detail in section 6.6.
2 Total Remuneration for the FY2012 performance year The Total Remuneration for each member of the GMC in respect of the FY2012 performance year is determined by the Remuneration Committee, and delivery of these elements occurs over different time frames as shown in the table and diagram below.
The process followed by the Committee was as follows: a review of base salary effective from 1 September 2011 applying over the period from 1 September 2011 to 31 August 2012 along with retirement benefits as a percentage of base salary was conducted.
As a consequence of the base salary review undertaken this year, and in recognition of the prevailing business climate, a decision has been taken to freeze the base salaries of GMC members for FY2013.
Base salary shown in the table below was provided over the period 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012: benefit policy under which other benefits shown in the table below were provided over the period 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012 was confirmed: a target STI was determined to reflect performance from 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012, with performance assessed in August 2012: Cash awards will be provided in September 2012: Deferred Shares and or Options are expected to be allocated in December 2012, following the Groups 2012 AGMs: the fair value of an LTI award for each member of the GMC was determined as the target Total Remuneration determined by the Committee less the sum of base salary, benefits and target STI.
An LTI award of Performance Shares was allocated in December 2011, following the Groups 2011 AGMs.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 139 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.5.
2 Total Remuneration for the FY2012 performance year continued Non-statutory table: The following table shows Total Remuneration for the GMC as a result of the determinations of the Committee.
The crystallisation of the Deferred STI and the LTI awards will be after a two-year and five-year period respectively and will depend on service and performance conditions.
Given the requirements to use Accounting Standards under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and the UK Companies Act 2006 for determining and measuring executive remuneration, including allocation across the vesting period for longer-term incentives, the non-statutory remuneration data set out below do not reconcile directly to the Statutory Total Remuneration Table as shown in section 6.7.
2 As a result of the impairment against the carrying value of Fayetteville shale gas assets acquired from Chesapeake Energy in March 2011, both Marius Kloppers and Mike Yeager advised the Remuneration Committee that they did not wish to be considered for a STI award for FY2012.
The Committee and the Board respected and agreed with that decision.
3 For Graham Kerr and Mike Henry, the table shows the base salary and benefits earned from 28 November 2011 for their new roles as GMC members as detailed in section 6.7.
1 and the pro-rated STI award provided to them for performance during the period from 28 November 2011 to the end of the FY2012 performance year.
Mr Kerr and Mr Henry received awards under the Management Award Plan MAP long-term incentive plan prior to their appointment as GMC members as described in section 6.8.
Their initial allocation of LTI awards as GMC members under the LTIP will be determined by the Committee and allocated in December 2012.
Timeline for allocation of FY2012 Total Remuneration LTI Performance measured 5 yrs Performance measured Deferred Shares STI 2 yrs Base salary and pension benefits July 2011 Sep 2011 Dec 2011 Jun 2012 Aug 2012 Sep 2012 Dec 2012 STI performance New base LTI Performance STI award STI cash STI Deferred 1 measurement starts salary effective Shares allocated determined paid Shares Options 1 allocated 1 Following shareholder approval at the AGMs in respect of the CEOs awards.
