1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6 Remuneration Report The following guide is intended to help the reader to use this Remuneration Report.
It explains the linkages between BHP Billitons remuneration strategy and the remuneration outcomes for Directors and members of the Group Management Committee GMC as listed in sections 6.7.
1 and 6.10.1 of the Remuneration Report.
All acronyms used are defined in the Remuneration Report or in section 10 of this Annual Report.
Section What it covers 6.1 Message from the Remuneration An introduction to the 2012 Remuneration Report from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Committee Chairman, John Buchanan.
6.2 Remuneration at a glance An overview of the remuneration of the Groups Chief Executive Officer CEO and what influences remuneration outcomes.
6.3 Remuneration governance Explains how the Board and the Remuneration Committee make remuneration decisions, including how they use external remuneration consultants.
6.4 Our remuneration strategy Outlines our remuneration policy and how it supports our strategic objectives and is focused on the long term.
6.5 Setting Total Remuneration for the GMC Describes how the Board determines Total Remuneration and its core components.
6.6 How performance impacts remuneration outcomes An in-depth explanation of the components of remuneration and how performance has impacted remuneration outcomes.
6.7 Statutory remuneration disclosures for the GMC Presents total remuneration for the GMC calculated pursuant to legislative and accounting requirements.
6.8 Equity awards Provides details of interests in equity awards resulting from BHP Billitons remuneration programs.
6.9 Aggregate Directors remuneration The total remuneration provided to Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors a UK disclosure requirement.
6.10 Non-executive Director arrangements Discloses the individual Non-executive Directors, details their fee arrangements and retirement benefits, and presents their total remuneration calculated pursuant to legislative and accounting standards.
6.1 Message from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to introduce BHP Billitons Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June 2012.
Last year, I shared with you our plan to conduct a comprehensive review of our remuneration arrangements.
We have completed the review and, after consideration of all relevant issues, concluded that our current arrangements, including the changes to the long-term incentive plan approved by shareholders in 2010, remain appropriate.
Importantly, we believe that the arrangements continue to support our focus on operational excellence, risk management and the execution of the Groups strategy.
While several feasible alternatives were examined, including introducing a second measure to operate in conjunction with total shareholder return, we have elected not to introduce significant change at this time.
As always, we will continue to seek further improvement opportunities, including an appropriate second measure.
Further details of our review and its outcomes are in section 6.4.
Shareholders have provided a strong level of support for the Remuneration Report in recent years through your votes at annual general meetings.
In addition, our policies and approach to providing appropriate remuneration for our senior executives have been broadly endorsed during regular consultation sessions with shareholders.
In particular our long-term incentive plan, approved in 2004 and applied consistently since, is a five-year plan, a longer period than most other companies employ.
This remains a very important feature for the Remuneration Committee and shareholders.
The Committee and the Board will continue to adopt an open-door approach to existing shareholders views so they can be factored into the Groups future approach to pay.
Two remuneration outcomes for FY2012 provide tangible evidence of our policy in action.
First, as a result of the impairment against the carrying value of the Fayetteville shale gas assets acquired from Chesapeake Energy in March 2011, CEO Marius Kloppers and Group Executive and Chief Executive Petroleum Mike Yeager advised the Remuneration Committee that they did not wish to be considered for an incentive under the short-term incentive plan for FY2012.
The Committee and the Board respected and agreed with that decision.
Short-term incentives for other members of the GMC are significantly lower than in FY2011.
Second, as a consequence of the base salary review for GMC members undertaken this year, and in recognition of the prevailing business climate, a decision has been taken to freeze the base salaries of GMC members for FY2013.
The Board also decided not to adjust remuneration for Non-executive Directors.
These outcomes represent an appropriate alignment of remuneration with business outcomes.
In this years Remuneration Report, we have included a new Remuneration at a glance section to provide a clearer explanation of the remuneration provided to our CEO.
This addition, in section 6.2, reinforces the importance we see in seeking to explain clearly how BHP Billitons remuneration policies support long-term, sustainable value creation.
John Buchanan Chairman, Remuneration Committee 12 September 2012 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 133
