Respect Embracing openness, trust, teamwork, diversity and relationships that are mutually beneficial.
At BHP Billiton, the focus of our people strategy is reflected in our core value of Respect.
In all our efforts, we aim to build pride and loyalty in our workforce and ensure that we work in a way that is consistent with Our BHP Billiton Charter values.
Our workforce comprises an average of 46,370 employees Attracting and developing our people and 78,813 contractors, who work in an environment where Performance is one of the core values to which we hold our openness, trust and teamwork are encouraged.
Each and people accountable, and therefore attracting, employing and every employee contributes to a caring workplace where developing people with exceptional skills and values provides our people work safely.
We encourage our people to stretch their capabilities in order to reach their full potential Diversity and to contribute purposefully to our future.
We seek to achieve Our corporate strategy is based on owning and operating this by investing in relevant development programs, processes assets diversified by commodity, geography and market, and initiatives.
and to achieve this, we also need a workforce that reflects Recruitment is managed on a local basis by each of our businesses diversity in all forms, including gender, skills, experience and every person applying for a job is evaluated according to and ethnicity.
In FY2012, our Board of Directors comprised their job-related skills, qualifications, abilities and alignment with 13 members, who represent seven nationalities.
Two members Our Charter values.
We seek to ensure strong internal candidate are female.
Our aspiration is to have a workforce that best representation for roles, supplemented by external candidates.
represents the communities in which our assets are located In line with our approach to diversity, where local employment and our employees live.
policies are in place, we first look to recruit locally and in FY2012, In FY2011, we committed to three measurable objectives 54 per cent of our workforce and 25 per cent of management in our people strategy to enhance our diversity profile.
were drawn from the local talent pool.
Firstly, our businesses were required to develop and implement In FY2012, we communicated our future priorities and vision for a diversity plan dedicated to achieving diversity of gender, the Company through the Executive Leadership Program ELP.
skills, experience and ethnicity, while taking into account This saw a total of 413 senior leaders from across the organisation legislative requirements.
These multi-year diversity plans were participate in a structured development program to provide further refined in FY2012 by identifying measurable objectives them with a detailed understanding of our strategy and equip that would result in an improved diversity profile.
The objectives them with the tools needed to align their teams to deliver identified through this process formed a part of each businesss on our strategy and help drive our future success.
Importantly, performance requirements and were considered in determining the ELP entailed the launch of the updated Our Charter, which bonus remuneration.
Initiatives in the plan included workshops sets out our values and is the single most important document on inclusive leadership, the development of manager toolkits at BHP Billiton.
Additionally, the ELP aimed to provide a clear on diversity and inclusion and the identification of diversity understanding of the strategic intent behind our Operating champions within each business to help further the cause.
Together, Our Charter and Operating Model form the Monitoring and tracking performance against diversity plans basis of The BHP Billiton Way, which describes to everyone will continue to be undertaken as part of the BHP Billitons within our organisation what we do and how we do it.
Secondly, we continued to focus on increasing female participation in our Accelerated We also seek to develop our future leaders through the ALDP Leadership Development Program ALDP.
This program has and our Foundations for Graduates Program, both of which been running for the past four years and is focused on providing encourage participants to stretch their own capabilities and our future leaders with the necessary skills to deliver on our develop their leadership skills.
Participants in both programs strategy.
In FY2012, female participation in the program was are encouraged to foster their own personal growth through 43 per cent, against a target of 40 per cent.
Thirdly, we are learning about themselves and their interactions with others reviewing our graduate recruitment process and identifying in the workplace.
The Foundations for Graduates Program and implementing the necessary actions to address low female is a two-year award-winning program designed to seamlessly representation.
Initiatives will be implemented at the Group-level transition our graduates from study to a work environment, and Asset-level and will include targeted advertising, sponsorships while providing insight into our organisation.
Graduates are and partnering with university and industry bodies.
given an opportunity to engage with BHP Billiton executives 22 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2012 and senior leaders who share their personal leadership journeys Employees by Geographic Region during five-day residential programs.
Graduates also participate in an extensive feedback process, enabling them to identify and Australasia 42% South America 24% address critical development areas.
Africa 22% North America 9% To help further improve our attraction and retention of Asia 2% people, in FY2012, we also completed a Group-wide employee Europe 1% perception survey of 1,700 employees in leadership positions.
Macro-level results showed a high level of engagement among the participants compared to external industry and other benchmarks.
Results also showed a need to focus attention on a number of areas to further improve levels of engagement and Contractors Engaged at our Owned retention, including opportunities for development.
The results and Operated Assets by Region will be used to plan local business engagement initiatives and Australasia 49% to strengthen BHP Billitons value proposition for prospective South America 30% Africa 15% and current employees by ensuring our practices and culture are North America 4% well positioned to effectively attract and retain people we need Asia 2% to deliver our corporate strategy.
Europe 1% In addition to these efforts, in 2007, we established 1SAP.
This is an initiative to simplify and standardise our business processes and systems, align all business units to the same operating framework, and enable them to perform at optimum capacity, measured by a consistent set of data and metrics.
In October 2011, 1SAP was implemented for human resources processes.
Project teams in each Customer Sector Group, Minerals Exploration, Marketing and Group Functions were set up in the early stages and worked closely with the business to ensure a successful implementation.
This saw over 40,000 BHP Billiton employees migrated onto one single payroll system.
Human resources processes were developed and standardised globally allowing for greater performance transparency across the organisation.
In everything we do, we are guided by Our Charter values, and our people strategy continues to be a strong reflection of that.
BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2012 | 23 BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance Australia Marketing Singapore 24 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2012 New South Wales Energy Coal Australia We value functional excellence in all parts of our business and foster and reward high performance.
When we do, our people start each day with a sense of purpose and end the day with a sense of accomplishment.
We can never take our performance for granted.
Each day, we must safely operate all of our assets at capacity and continue to identify those resources we will leave to the next generation of BHP Billiton leaders.
Without exception we must do our work in a way that is consistent with Our BHP Billiton Charter values and the BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct.
It is only when we work in this way that we can continue to work on behalf of our shareholders and communities that we are privileged to serve.
Hotazel South Africa BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2012 | 25
