5 Corporate Governance Statement continued We have reviewed the governance requirements currently applicable 5.21 Company secretaries to foreign private issuers under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act US Jane McAloon is the Group Company Secretary.
Ms McAloons including the rules promulgated by the SEC and the rules of the qualifications and experience are set out in section 4.1.
The Group NYSE and are satisfied that we comply with those requirements.
Company Secretary is responsible for developing and maintaining Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual contains the information systems and processes that enable the Board to a broad regime of corporate governance requirements for fulfil its role.
The Group Company Secretary is also responsible NYSE-listed companies.
Under the NYSE rules, foreign private to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied issuers, such as ourselves, are permitted to follow home country with and advising the Board on governance matters.
All Directors practice in lieu of the requirements of Section 303A, except for have access to the Group Company Secretary for advice and the rule relating to compliance with Rule 10A-3 of the Securities services.
Independent advisory services are retained by the Exchange Act of 1934 audit committee independence and certain Group Company Secretary at the request of the Board or notification provisions contained in Section 303A of the Listed Board committees.
Ms McAloon is supported by Nicola Evans, Company Manual.
11 of the Listed Company Manual, who was appointed in December 2011 as Deputy Company however, requires us to disclose any significant ways in which Secretary of BHP Billiton Limited, and Elizabeth Hobley our corporate governance practices differ from those followed and Geof Stapledon, who are Deputy Company Secretaries by US companies under the NYSE corporate governance standards.
The Board appoints and removes the Following a comparison of our corporate governance practices Company Secretaries.
with the requirements of Section 303A of the Listed Company Manual followed by US companies, the following significant 5.22 Conformance with corporate differences were identified: governance standards Our Nomination Committees Terms of Reference charter do not include the purpose of developing and recommending Our compliance with the governance standards in our home to the Board a set of corporate governance principles applicable jurisdictions of Australia and the United Kingdom, and with to the corporation.
While we have a Nomination Committee, the governance requirements that apply to us as a result it is not specifically charged with this responsibility.
We believe of our New York Stock Exchange NYSE listing and our that this task is integral to the governance of the Group and registration with the SEC in the United States, is summarised is therefore best dealt with by the Board as a whole.
in this Corporate Governance Statement, the Remuneration Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires Report, the Directors Report and the financial statements.
NYSE-listed companies to ensure that their audit committees The Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, of the UK Financial Services Authority require UK-listed companies retention and oversight of the work of the external auditor to report on the extent to which they comply with the Main unless the companys governing law or documents or other Principles and the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance home country legal requirements require or permit shareholders Code UK Code, and explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
to ultimately vote on or approve these matters.
While the RAC The UK Code is available online at www.
uk corporate is directly responsible for remuneration and oversight of the ukcgcode.
External Auditor, the ultimate responsibility for appointment and retention of the External Auditor rests with our shareholders, The Listing Rules of the ASX require Australian-listed companies in accordance with UK law and our constitutional documents.
to report on the extent to which they meet the Corporate The RAC does, however, make recommendations to the Board Governance Principles and Recommendations published by on these matters, which are in turn reported to shareholders.
the ASX Corporate Governance Council ASX Principles and Recommendations and explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
While the Board is satisfied with its level of compliance with The ASX Principles and Recommendations are available online the governance requirements in Australia, the United Kingdom at w w w. asx.
au about corpor ate governance index.
and the United States, it recognises that practices and procedures can always be improved, and there is merit in continuously Both the UK Code and the ASX Principles and Recommendations reviewing its own standards against those in a variety of require the Board to consider the application of the relevant jurisdictions.
The Boards program of review will continue corporate governance principles, while recognising that departures throughout the year ahead.
from those principles are appropriate in some circumstances.
We complied with the provisions set out in the UK Code and with the ASX Principles and Recommendations during the financial 5.23 Additional UK disclosure period and continue to comply up to the date of this Annual Report.
The information specified in the UK Financial Services Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules, DTR 7.2.
6, is located elsewhere in this Annual Report.
The Directors Report, at section 7.23, A checklist summarising our compliance with the provides cross-references to where the information is located.
UK Code and the ASX Principles and Recommendations can be found on our website atw w w. bhpbilliton.
com This Corporate Governance Statement was approved by the home aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
Board on 12 September 2012 and signed on its behalf by: BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are registrants with the SEC in the United States.
Both companies are classified as foreign private issuers and both have American Depositary Shares listed on the NYSE.
Jac Nasser AO Chairman 12 September 2012 132 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012
