1 Key information continued 1.2 Chairmans Review Dear Shareholder BHP Billiton also remains committed to making a positive contribution to our communities through capital investment, supporting local The past year was characterised by continued high levels of volatility industry and creating jobs.
Expanding on that commitment, this and uncertainty in the worlds economy.
year we once again contributed one per cent of our pre-tax profit The debt issues of the Eurozone remain a global concern.
European to community programs by voluntarily investing US$214 million.
governments continue to take action to address these challenges, This included a US$65 million contribution to BHP Billiton Sustainable but until they are resolved, we expect the political and financial Communities, our UK-based charity, and a US$149 million investment conditions of the region to remain volatile.
While there are some in health 8 per cent, education and training 18 per cent, community signs of improvement in the United States economy, a recovery infrastructure 25 per cent and other initiatives 49 per cent.
will only continue provided there are no large external shocks.
This was in addition to the US$11.9 billion in taxes and royalties Furthermore, China and other emerging economies have also seen paid to governments in the jurisdictions where we operate.
subdued growth as they face cyclical and structural pressures.
Tragically, this year three of our colleagues lost their lives at work.
In the midst of these challenges in the global economic environment, No fatality is acceptable and on behalf of the Board, I offer our I am pleased to report that BHP Billiton performed well this past condolences to their families, friends and colleagues.
BHP Billitons Underlying EBIT margin remained at stark reminder that we must remain vigilant about safety and a robust 39 per cent, despite weakness in commodity markets continue to live our values.
Supporting our communities is part and industry-wide cost pressures.
These results were underpinned of Our BHP Billiton Charter value of Sustainability, which also by the execution of our diversified strategy.
includes putting the health and safety of our people first and being environmentally responsible.
These are set out in Our Charter, Your Board is confident that our commitment to invest in high-return which is the foundation for everything we do at BHP Billiton.
growth opportunities will continue to create returns for shareholders.
Our largely brownfield projects in execution will continue to drive Lastly, it is important to note that as part of our Board succession, momentum in our major businesses and create value for our in June 2012 Mr Pat Davies was appointed to the Board as a shareholders in the near term.
Moreover, the continued urbanisation Non-executive Director.
Pats appointment is a welcome addition and industrialisation of developing economies should support to an already strong Board, providing corporate experience both demand for our products and the long-term growth of in the natural resources sector across a number of commodities our strong pipeline of development projects across diverse and markets.
In summary, while we continue to live with the uncertainty of the Recognising these opportunities, we will continue to prioritise global economic environment, we expect the demand from emerging investment where a sustainable competitive advantage exists, economies, our disciplined approach to capital management and including geopolitical and fiscal stability.
Our project approvals our value-focused strategy to maintain our momentum in delivering process will ensure that we allocate capital in a disciplined fashion, strong results long term for our shareholders.
On behalf of the Board while the quality and diversity of our asset portfolio will continue and everyone involved in the Company, I would like to thank you to drive strong returns.
for your ongoing support of BHP Billiton, as we continue to deliver on our commitments to you, our shareholders.
Investing in high-return projects, while maintaining a strong balance sheet, underpins our ability to pay a dividend that grows over time.
This financial year our progressive dividend increased to 112 US cents per share.
Over the last 10 years, we have returned approximately US$54 billion to shareholders through dividends and share buy-backs.
That represents around 30 per cent of the Groups current market capitalisation.
Moreover, our unbroken dividend generates a yield that is well in excess of our peer group.
Jac Nasser AO Chairman 4 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012
