Integrity Doing what is right and doing what we say we will do.
Wherever we operate in the world, we strive to work with integrity doing what is right and doing what we say we will do.
We care as much about how results are achieved as we do about the results themselves.
At BHP Billiton, we strive to foster a culture that values and Anti-corruption rewards exemplary ethical standards, personal and corporate Regardless of the country or culture within which our people integrity and respect for others.
We believe that consistent work, our Anti-Corruption Group Level Document GLD and and ethical business conduct creates loyalty and trust with the Code of Business Conduct prohibit bribery and corruption our stakeholders and contributes to maintaining our position in all our business dealings.
Our procedures require appropriate as one of the worlds leading companies.
due diligence in selecting and engaging third parties, the maintenance of accurate and reasonably detailed records Upholding the BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct of expenditures, and the implementation and maintenance Founded on Our BHP Billiton Charter values, the BHP Billiton of specific approval requirements for corruption sensitive Code of Business Conduct represents our unqualified commitment transactions.
We also prohibit the making of facilitation to uphold ethical business practices.
All BHP Billiton employees payments, which are payments involving small sums to are accountable for acting in accordance with the Code of low-level government officials to obtain routine services Business Conduct.
Suppliers, contractors and partners working to which BHP Billiton is otherwise legally entitled.
with or for us are also required to be informed of and act Following requests for information in August 2009 from the in accordance with these requirements.
US Securities and Exchange Commission, the Group commenced We recognise that at times our people may find themselves in an internal investigation and disclosed to relevant authorities situations where complying with the Code of Business Conduct evidence that it has uncovered regarding possible violations may appear to conflict with the ability to win or retain business.
of applicable anti-corruption laws involving interactions with The Code of Business Conduct makes it clear that our people government officials.
The internal investigation is continuing may not allow anything meeting production, competitive and the Group is cooperating with the relevant authorities and instincts or even a direct order from a manager to compromise reporting the facts found in the investigation.
It is not possible their commitment to working with integrity.
In upholding the at this time to predict the likely outcomes of the matter.
Code of Business Conduct, our people can be confident they are working in the right way.
Transparently reporting taxes Through our membership of the International Council In 2011, key changes to anti-corruption legislation prompted on Mining and Metals ICMM, BHP Billiton supports the a review of the Code of Business Conduct.
This review was Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, a global completed in January 2012, and the updated document continues initiative to improve governance in resource-rich countries to provide clear expectations about behaviour.
To ensure the through the verification and full publication of company requirements of the Code of Business Conduct are embedded payments and government revenues from oil, gas and mining.
effectively across BHP Billiton, each business leader has the We are committed to supporting and cooperating in the responsibility for ensuring that all employees and agency implementation of country-level EITI Work Plans as our contractors attend an annual face-to-face meeting to discuss host countries progress the initiative.
the Code of Business Conduct.
A training and communication plan for each business and function is completed and In line with our support for the EITI, we have reported payments executed each year.
of taxes and royalties derived from resource development on a country-by-country basis.
We have presented the data We have in place mechanisms to address stakeholder as the taxes and royalty payments that we make as BHP Billiton, grievances and concerns.
Our operations maintain a register such as corporate income taxes and royalties, and those of concerns, complaints and relevant external communications.
that we collect on behalf of employees.
The data is available The Business Conduct Advisory Service provides a further means on page 43 of the Sustainability Report 2012. for raising concerns and is designed to facilitate the resolution of business conduct queries and issues.
All stakeholders can Our payments to governments in the past year, included access the worldwide multilingual 24-hour hotline and online US$12.1 billion in company taxes, royalties and certain indirect case management system, where business conduct concerns taxes and approximately US$1.4 billion in taxes collected can be raised anonymously.
More information regarding the on behalf of employees.
More than 99 per cent of our payments Business Conduct Advisory Service can be found on page 33 are made to 14 countries.
Of these, our largest payments are of the Sustainability Report 2012. made in Australia, where we have the majority of our assets.
