1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report D E L E G A T I O N N C B O O M O M I A N M 5.13.3 Nomination Committee Report Role and focus BHP Billiton governance structure Nomination Committee The role of the Committee is to assist in ensuring that the Board comprises individuals who are best able to discharge SHAREHOLDERS the responsibilities of a Director, having regard to the highest standards of governance, the strategic direction of the Group and the diversity aspirations of the Board.
It does so by focusing on: assessing the skills, backgrounds, knowledge, experience and diversity of geographic location, nationality and gender represented on the Board and identifying any inadequate representation of those attributes: reviewing the skills, backgrounds, knowledge, experience and gender represented on the Board committees and recommending committee composition to the Board: The Nomination Committee met seven times during the year.
retaining the services of independent search firms and Information on meeting attendance by Committee members identifying suitable candidates possessing the skills identified is included in the table in section 5.11. by the skills assessment referred to above for the Board: overseeing the evaluation of the performance of individual There were changes to the composition of the Board during Directors and making recommendations to the Board on the year.
The Committee retained the services of independent the endorsement of retiring Directors seeking re-election recruitment specialists to assist in the identification of potential see section 5.12 : candidates for the Board, with the result that Pat Davies was the plan for succession of the Chairman and the appointed with effect from 1 June 2012.
This followed a detailed CEO and its periodic evaluation: search which included consideration of skills, experience and diversity of geographic location, nationality and gender.
the provision of appropriate training and development opportunities for Directors: The Committee also oversaw the Director training and development supporting the Board in its review and, where program for 2012 and the induction program for the new Director.
appropriate, authorisation of actual and potential Nomination Committee members during the year conflicts see section 5.9 : communicating to shareholders regarding the work Name Status of the Committee on behalf of the Board.
Jac Nasser Chairman Member for whole period The Board has set an aspirational goal of increasing the number John Buchanan Member for whole period of women on the Board to at least three over the next two years John Schubert Member for whole period and the Nomination Committee will continue to take diversity into account in its deliberations.
Further information regarding the Groups approach to diversity is set out in section 5.17.
Committee evaluation During FY2011, the Committee retained the services of The Nomination Committee also has oversight of training an external adviser to assist with an assessment of the and development activity for all Directors.
The Board considers Committees effectiveness, and this continued into FY2012.
this enhances the Committees ongoing consideration and The Committee also reviewed its performance in accordance review in relation to the appropriate skills mix for the Board.
with its terms of reference.
As a result of this evaluation, The role of the Nomination Committee in the context of the Committee is satisfied it has met its terms of reference.
BHP Billitons broader governance framework is summarised in the diagram opposite.
