3 Operating and financial review and prospects 3.1 Introduction This section is intended to convey managements perspective of the BHP Billiton Group and its operational and financial performance.
We intend this disclosure to assist readers to understand and interpret the financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS included in this Report.
The basis of preparation of the financial statements is set out in note 1 Accounting policies to the financial statements.
The Operating and financial review and prospects should be read in conjunction with the financial statements, together with the accompanying notes.
We are the worlds largest diversified natural resources company, with a combined market capitalisation of approximately US$160.6 billion as at 30 June 2012.
We generated Revenue of US$72.2 billion and Profit attributable to shareholders of US$15.4 billion for FY2012.
We extract and process minerals, oil and gas from our production operations located primarily in Australia, the Americas and southern Africa.
We sell our products globally with sales and marketing taking place principally through our hub in Singapore.
The following table shows the revenue by location of our customers.
In May 2012, we announced that our Stainless Steel Materials and Aluminium CSGs would consolidate into a single CSG named Aluminium and Nickel.
In this Report, Aluminium and Stainless Steel Materials are separate reportable segments.
Customer Sector Groups Principal activities Petroleum Exploration, development and production of oil and gas Aluminium Mining of bauxite, refining of bauxite into alumina and smelting of alumina into aluminium metal Base Metals Mining of copper, silver, lead, zinc, molybdenum, uranium and gold Diamonds and Specialty Products Mining of diamonds and titanium minerals: potash development Stainless Steel Materials Mining and production of nickel products Iron Ore Mining of iron ore Manganese Mining of manganese ore and production of manganese metal and alloys Metallurgical Coal Mining of metallurgical coal Energy Coal Mining of thermal energy coal The work of our CSGs is supported by our Minerals Exploration and Marketing teams and Group Functions.
A discussion on our CSGs is located in section 2.2 Business overview.
A discussion of our Marketing and Minerals Exploration functions is located in sections 2.4 Marketing and 2.5 Minerals exploration, respectively.
