1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Production for FY2012 totalled 222 MMboe in sales and an additional 2.13 Reserves and resources 6 MMboe in non-sales production, typically fuel, consumed in our 2.13.1 Petroleum reserves petroleum operations.
During FY2012, Petroleum added a total of 1 Reserves and production 953 MMboe of proved oil and gas reserves.
The largest component was the acquisition of the Petrohawk Energy Corporation onshore BHP Billiton Petroleum reserves are estimated and reported conventional and shale assets accounting for 617 MMboe of proved according to SEC standards.
For FY2012, our proved oil and gas reserves.
Additional minor property acquisitions and sales added reserves have been determined in accordance with SEC Rule 4-10 a a net 6.5 MMboe.
Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids NGL, which, Excluding purchases and sales of reserves, Petroleum added by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated a total of 330 MMboe to proved reserves, replacing 148 per cent with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from of production sales, through extensions, discoveries, revisions and a given date forward from known reservoirs, and under existing improved recovery.
Additions from extensions and discoveries were economic conditions, operating methods, operating contracts and 36 MMboe and include new development projects planned in the government regulations.
Unless evidence indicates that renewal Pyrenees offshore complex in Australia and development drilling of existing operating contracts is reasonably certain, estimates in the Fayetteville and Eagle Ford fields located onshore US.
of economically producible reserves only reflect the period before Additions from revisions were 259 MMboe and are mostly related the contracts expire.
The project to extract the hydrocarbons must to infill drilling, since acquisition, in the Eagle Ford field.
Additions have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that from improved recovery were 35 MMboe and are associated with it will commence within a reasonable time.
Developed oil and gas water injection projects in Mad Dog and Shenzi fields in the offshore reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through US Gulf of Mexico GOM.
existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods Petroleums reserves are estimated as of 30 June 2012.
Reserve and through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure assessments for all Petroleum properties were conducted by operational at the time of the reserve estimate if the extraction technical staff within the operating organisation.
These individuals is by means not involving a well.
As specified in Rule 4-10 a meet the professional qualifications outlined by the Society of Regulation S-X, oil and gas prices are taken as the unweighted of Petroleum Engineers, are trained in the fundamentals of SEC average of the corresponding first day of the month prices for reserves reporting and the reserves processes and are endorsed the twelve months prior to the ending date of the period covered.
Each reserve assessment is reviewed annually by the Estimates of oil and gas reserves are inherently imprecise, require PRG to ensure technical quality, adherence to internally published the application of judgement and are subject to future revision.
Petroleum CSG Guidelines and compliance with SEC reporting Accordingly, financial and accounting measures such as the requirements.
Once endorsed by the PRG, all reserves receive standardised measure of discounted cash flows, depreciation, final endorsement by senior management and the Risk and Audit depletion and amortisation charges, the assessment of impairments Committee prior to public reporting.
Our internal Group Audit and the assessment of valuation allowances against deferred Services provides secondary assurance of the oil and gas reserve tax assets that are based on reserve estimates are also subject reporting processes through annual audits.
These results are summarised in the tables below, which detail Proved reserves are estimated by reference to available seismic, estimated oil, condensate, NGL and natural gas reserves at well and reservoir information, including production and pressure 30 June 2012, 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010, with a reconciliation trends for producing reservoirs and, in some cases, to similar data of the changes in each year.
Reserves have been calculated using from other analogous, producing reservoirs.
Proved reserves the economic interest method and represent net interest volumes estimates are attributed to future development projects only where after deduction of applicable royalty.
Reserves include quantities there is a significant commitment to project funding and execution, of oil, condensate, NGL and natural gas that will be produced and for which applicable government and regulatory approvals have under two production and risk-sharing arrangements that involve the been secured or are reasonably certain to be secured.
Furthermore, Group in upstream risks and rewards without transfer estimates of proved reserves only include volumes for which access of ownership of the products.
At 30 June 2012, approximately to market is assured with reasonable certainty.
All proved reserve four per cent of proved developed and undeveloped oil, condensate estimates are subject to revision, either upward or downward, and NGL reserves and two per cent of natural gas reserves are based on new information, such as from development drilling and attributable to those arrangements.
Reserves also include volumes production activities or from changes in economic factors, including calculated by probabilistic aggregation of certain fields that share product prices, contract terms or development plans.
These aggregation procedures result in enterprise-wide proved reserves volumes which may not be realised The Petroleum Reserves Group PRG is a dedicated group that upon divestment on an individual property basis.
provides overall oversight of the reserves assessment and reporting processes.
It is independent of the various asset teams directly 1 Total boe conversion is based on the following: 6,000 scf of natural responsible for development and production activities.
is staffed by individuals averaging over 30 years experience in the oil and gas industry.
The manager of the PRG, Tina Obut, a full-time employee of BHP Billiton, is the individual responsible for overseeing the preparation of the reserves estimates and compiling the information for inclusion in this Report.
She has an advanced degree in engineering and over 20 years of diversified industry experience in reservoir engineering, reserves assessment, and technical management and is a 25-year member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers SPE.
The PRG manager has reviewed and agrees with the information included in section 2.13.1 of this Report.
No part of the individual compensation for members of the PRG is dependent on reported reserves.
b NGL is extracted separately from crude oil and natural gas and reported as a liquid.
c Production for reserves reconciliation differs slightly from marketable production due to timing of sales and corrections to previous estimates.
d Total proved oil, condensate and NGL reserves include 5.3 million barrels derived from probabilistic aggregation of reserves from reservoirs dedicated to the North West Shelf gas project only.
b Production for Australia includes gas sold as LNG.
d Total proved natural gas reserves include 158.9 billion cubic feet derived from probabilistic aggregation of reserves from reservoirs dedicated to the North West Shelf gas project only.
e Does not include volumes expected to be consumed by operations.
f Production includes volumes consumed by operations.
b Small differences are due to rounding to first decimal place.
d Total proved reserves include 31.8 MMboe derived from probabilistic aggregation of reserves from reservoirs dedicated to the North West Shelf gas project only.
