9.1 Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32 Employee share ownership plans continued ii LTIP and MAP The LTIP awards are in the form of Performance Shares, and are awarded annually.
The performance hurdle applicable to the awards granted requires the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR over a five-year performance period to be greater than a combination of the weighted average TSR of a peer group of companies and of the Morgan Stanley Capital Index World.
To the extent that the performance hurdle is not achieved, awards are forfeited.
For all Performance Shares to vest, the Groups TSR must exceed the weighted average TSR of the Index by a specified percentage, determined each year by the Remuneration Committee.
Since the establishment of the LTIP in 2004, this percentage has been set each year at 5.5 per cent.
For performance between the weighted average TSR of the Index and 5.5 per cent per annum above the Index, vesting occurs on a sliding scale.
The MAP is a replacement plan to the LTIP for employees below the GMC.
Under the MAP participants receive an Award of Restricted Shares, the number of which is determined by role, performance and organisational level.
There are no performance conditions attached to the Award and all the shares that have been granted will vest at the end of three years providing participants remain in employment over that time.
All awards issued prior to 1 July 2011 are eligible to receive a payment equal to the dividend amount that would have been earned on the underlying shares represented by the Deferred Shares, Options, Restricted Shares and Performance Shares awarded to those participants the Dividend Equivalent Payment.
The Dividend Equivalent Payment is made to the participants once the underlying ordinary shares are issued or transferred to them.
No Dividend Equivalent Payment is made in respect of Deferred Shares, Options, Restricted Shares and Performance Shares that lapse.
Awards issued after 1 July 2011 under the GSTIP and MAP plans are no longer eligible to receive the Dividend Equivalent Payment.
b Shareplus, an all-employee share purchase plan, commenced in April 2007.
Employees may contribute up to US$5,000 to acquire shares Acquired Shares in any Plan year.
On the third anniversary of the start of a Plan year, the Company will match the number of Acquired Shares held by the employee at that time with Matched Shares.
The employees have no beneficial entitlement to the Matched Shares until they are awarded.
Acquired Shares are purchased on a quarterly basis.
Employees can sell their Acquired Shares at any time.
If, prior to the third anniversary, an individual sells their Acquired Shares, resigns without the Remuneration Committees consent or is dismissed for cause, their entitlement to Matched Shares is forfeited.
c The fair value of awards as presented in the tables above represents the fair value at grant date.
The fair values of awards granted were estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation methodology, Black-Scholes option pricing technique and net present value technique.
d The risk-free interest rate used is an applicable government bond rate.
e Historical volatility has been used to estimate the volatility of the share price.
f Awards issued under these plans occurred before 7 November 2002 and as such are exempt from the provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
Details of these plans have been provided here for information purposes only.
g Exercise price on awards issued is equal to the exercise price as per awards outstanding.
h Shares issued on exercise of BHP Billitons employee share ownership plans include shares purchased on-market.
i In respect of employee share awards, the Group utilises the following trusts: i The Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust is a discretionary trust for the benefit of all employees of BHP Billiton Plc and its subsidiaries.
The trustee is an independent company, resident in Jersey.
The trust uses funds provided by BHP Billiton Plc and or its subsidiaries as appropriate to acquire ordinary shares to enable awards to be made or satisfied under the LTIP, MAP, GIS, GSTIP, CIP, Shareplus and other employee share schemes operated by BHP Billiton Plc from time to time.
The ordinary shares may be acquired by purchase in the market or by subscription at not less than nominal value.
The Trust has waived its rights to dividends on shares held to meet future awards under Shareplus.
ii The BHP Performance Share Plan Trust is a discretionary trust established to distribute shares under selected BHP Billiton Limited employee share plan schemes.
The trustee of the trust is BHP Billiton Employee Plan Pty Ltd, an Australian company.
The trust uses funds provided by BHP Billiton Limited and or its subsidiaries to acquire shares on market to satisfy exercises made under the LTIP, MAP, GIS, GSTIP and PSP.
iii The BHP Billiton Limited Executive Incentive Scheme Trust is a discretionary trust established for the purposes of holding shares in BHP Billiton Limited to satisfy exercises made under the LTIP, MAP, GIS, GSTIP, Shareplus and other employee share schemes operated by BHP Billiton Limited from time to time.
33 Employees 2012 2011 2010 Number Number Number a Average number of employees Petroleum 3,058 2,308 2,178 Aluminium 5,050 4,599 4,471 Base Metals 8,775 7,602 7,434 Diamonds and Specialty Products 1,905 1,737 1,689 Stainless Steel Materials 3,578 3,412 3,481 Iron Ore 5,784 4,047 3,624 Manganese 2,760 2,426 2,549 Metallurgical Coal 4,535 4,019 3,533 Energy Coal 8,977 8,752 8,762 Group and unallocated 1,948 1,855 1,849 46,370 40,757 39,570 a Average employee numbers include Executive Directors, 100 per cent of employees of subsidiary companies, and our share of proportionately consolidated entities and operations.
Part-time employees are included on a full-time equivalent basis.
Employees of businesses acquired or disposed of during the year are included for the period of ownership.
People employed by contractors are not included.
