1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 1.3 Chief Executive Officers Report I am pleased to report that BHP Billiton delivered a solid set The diversification of the BHP Billiton portfolio continues to of results in FY2012 against a backdrop of challenging industry be our defining attribute.
The quality of our people, our asset and macro-economic conditions.
Our commitment to investing base and our unchanged strategy of owning and operating large, through the cycle allowed us to reach new production records long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets diversified at 10 of our operations and was key to our financial results.
by commodity, geography and market, together with our ability and commitment to investing through the cycle and delivering We continue to focus on safety with a commitment to establish projects on budget and to schedule, is what sets us apart best practice in this area.
In this regard, our total recordable injury from our peers.
frequency rate declined by six per cent in FY2012.
However, despite this rate now being at its lowest level on record, the tragic loss In line with this strategy, over the next two years we will continue to invest in and grow our business.
With 20 major projects currently of three colleagues over the past year is a stark reminder of the inherent risks in our industry and the need to relentlessly pursue in execution, these well advanced, low-risk, brownfield projects will deliver substantial volume growth and underpin our industry-leading the elimination of all fatal risks.
Any fatality has a devastating effect on family, friends and colleagues, and the impact of this returns in the future.
As a result of our disciplined investment strategy and our commitment to maintaining our strong balance is felt in every corner of this Company.
We truly believe that BHP Billiton can be a business that operates free of work-related sheet, we are largely committed for FY2013 and do not plan to approve any additional major projects in this period.
fatalities, and it is for this reason that fatality prevention remains our number one priority.
We remain confident in the long-term outlook and future demand From a global perspective, FY2012 was characterised by uncertainty for our products, which will continue to be driven by the urbanisation and volatility surrounding the European debt crisis which, in turn, and industrialisation in the developing world.
As current capital affected global economic growth and the key markets for our commitments reduce, we will allocate future capital to projects products.
The resulting weaker commodity prices coupled with that maximise shareholder value and balance both short-term stronger producer currencies and capital and operational cost and long-term returns.
We are in a fortunate position, with growth pressures presented challenges for the global mining industry.
options unparalleled in the global resources industry, and together with our proven strategy, we will continue to deliver sustainable In response to the prevailing market conditions, over the past and superior long-term returns for our shareholders.
year we have implemented prudent measures that will safely and substantially reduce operational costs and non-essential expenditure Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank our host communities, who continue to support our activities, and our across our entire business.
FY2013 will see the benefits of these significant cost reduction measures, along with substantial volume shareholders, customers, suppliers and the many others who help contribute to our success.
I would especially like to thank our more growth, flow through to our financial results.
than 125,000 employees and contractors around the world.
It is their Despite the volatility in global economic conditions and commodity commitment to giving their very best efforts to us each and every prices we have experienced in the past financial year, we see significant day that is the cornerstone of the success of this Company.
opportunity for our Company in the near term.
While we achieved pleasing production results and production records at 10 of our operations, three of our key assets operated below capacity in FY2012 due to temporary, one-off issues.
This was largely due to industrial action in our Queensland Coal business, shut-ins at our non-operated joint venture fields in the Gulf of Mexico and a temporary decrease in grades at our Escondida copper operation.
With these businesses expected to return to full capacity, we are Marius Kloppers confident we will continue to produce industry leading returns for Chief Executive Officer our shareholders now and into the future.
