5 Corporate Governance Statement continued capital-intensive design of the Olympic Dam open-pit expansion, 5.3 Role and responsibilities of the Board continued involving new technologies, to substantially improve the economics The Board is free to alter the matters reserved for its decision, of the project.
As a result of this change, we recognised an subject to the limitations imposed by the constitutional documents impairment and other charges of US$346 million before tax and the law.
US$242 million after tax in respect of the Olympic Dam project: the investment of US$2.1 billion for the development of the Beyond those matters, the Board has delegated all authority to achieve the corporate purpose to the CEO, who takes all decisions Caval Ridge project and the expansion of the Peak Downs mine in the Northern Bowen Basin in Central Queensland, Australia.
and actions which, in the CEOs judgement, are reasonable having regard to the limits imposed by the Board.
The CEO remains On 22 August 2012, we announced we will delay indefinitely the expansion of Peak Downs: accountable to the Board for the authority that is delegated and for the performance of the business.
The Board monitors the decisions the investment of US$1.2 billion in projects to underpin higher and actions of the CEO and the performance of the business to production at Escondida over the next decade: gain assurance that progress is being made towards the corporate the investment of US$708 million in pre-commitment funding purpose within the limits imposed through the Groups governance for Mad Dog Phase 2 project in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico: assurance framework.
The Board also monitors the performance the investment of US$779 million in pre-commitment funding of the Group and assesses its risk profile through its committees.
for the construction of an Outer Harbour facility associated with Reports from each of the committees are set out in section 5.13. the Western Australia Iron Ore operations.
On 24 August 2012, we announced that Western Australia Iron Ore has been granted The CEO is required to report regularly in a spirit of openness and trust on the progress being made by the business.
The Board and the right, subject to the state approvals process, to develop two additional berths in the Inner Harbour.
We also announced that its committees determine the information required from the CEO and any employee or external party, including the External Auditor.
work on the Outer Harbour has been slowed while focus shifts to maximising the potential capacity from the Inner Harbour: Open dialogue between individual members of the Board and the CEO and other employees is encouraged to enable Directors to gain the investment of US$845 million to sustain operations a better understanding of our business.
at Illawarra Coal in Southern New South Wales: the impairments against carrying value of the Fayetteville Independent advice shale gas assets and Nickel West assets.
The Board and its committees may seek advice from independent experts whenever it is considered appropriate.
Individual Directors, Another significant activity during the year was Board and with the consent of the Chairman, may seek independent committee succession planning and renewal.
The Board believes professional advice on any matter connected with the discharge that orderly succession and renewal is in the best interests of the of their responsibilities, at the Groups expense.
During FY2012, Pat Davies was appointed to the Board from 1 June 2012.
As disclosed last year, following a detailed Strategic focus and review succession process for the Risk and Audit Committee RAC Within this framework, at the start of the calendar year, the Board Chairman, Lindsay Maxsted was appointed to that position agrees its strategic focus for the year ahead.
This ensures that in September 2011.
The former RAC Chairman, David Crawford, the work of the Board is aligned with the corporate purpose and is no longer a member of that committee, but at the request takes into account the relevant external environment, such as of the Board and reflecting his experience, expertise and valuable the markets in which we operate, and changes to the external corporate memory, he remains on the Board and is Chairman and regulatory environment.
He continues to make a significant The Board also evaluates its activities on a regular basis, taking contribution to the Boards work.
into account: In addition, Board Committee assessments were finalised matters considered by the Board including time spent see section 5.10 for further information and the Finance Committee on those matters : was established.
The Board is of the view that our governance legal and governance requirements of the Board and structure is enhanced by a committee that focuses on capital its committees: structure and funding, capital management planning and initiatives feedback from shareholders and other stakeholders: and due diligence.
the outcomes of its evaluation process.
The Board is satisfied that it has discharged its obligations 5.4 Board membership as set out in the Board Governance Document.
The Board currently has 13 members.
Of these, 12, including Key activities during the year the Chairman, are independent Non-executive Directors.
A key activity during the year for the Board has been governing The Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board the Group through the current more challenging economic to be independent of management and free from any business environment, in order to continue to focus on our strategy relationship or other circumstance that could materially interfere to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, expandable, with the exercise of objective, unfettered or independent upstream assets diversified by commodity, geography and judgement.
Further information on the process for assessing market.
Disciplined investment throughout the economic cycle independence is in section 5.9. has established momentum in our major businesses: however, There were changes to the composition of the Board during the weakness in commodity markets and industry-wide cost pressure year.
The Nomination Committee retains the services of external also had an effect over the year.
recruitment specialists to assist in the identification of potential The Groups long-stated priorities for capital management remain candidates for the Board.
The Boards assessment of the overall unchanged: firstly, to invest in high-return growth opportunities skills, experience and diversity profile resulted in the appointment throughout the economic cycle: secondly, to maintain a solid A of Mr Davies with effect from 1 June 2012. credit rating and to grow our progressive dividend: and finally, The Board considers that there is an appropriate balance between to return excess capital to shareholders.
Within this context, Executive and Non-executive Directors to promote shareholder the Board approved a range of business decisions, including: interests and govern the business effectively.
While the Board the acquisition of Petrohawk Energy Corporation for includes a smaller number of Executive Directors than is common US$38.75 per share by means of an all cash tender offer: for UK-listed companies, its composition is appropriate for the the investment of US$1.2 billion in pre-commitment capital DLC structure and is in line with Australian-listed company for the first phase of the Olympic Dam Project to develop practice.
In addition, the Board has extensive access to members an open-pit mine in South Australia.
On 22 August 2012, of senior management.
Members of the Group Management we announced that we will investigate an alternative, less Committee GMC the most senior executives in the Group 112 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012
