1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report B R U I C S B I S N O K E O S M S C G & M E G A M R I O A C O T R U U T P E D R D E A I C T s D E L E G A T I O N 5.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Role and focus Significant financial and risk matters raised at Business Group RAC meetings are reported to the RAC by the Head of Group The role of the RAC is to assist the Board in monitoring the Reporting and Taxation and the Head of Group Risk Assessment decisions and actions of the CEO and the Group and to gain and Assurance.
assurance that progress is being made towards the corporate purpose within the limits imposed by the Board, as set out Risk and Audit Committee members during the year in the Board Governance Document.
The RAC undertakes this by overseeing: Name Status the integrity of the financial statements: 1 2 Lindsay Maxsted Chairman Member for whole period the appointment, remuneration, qualifications, independence 2 1 David Crawford Member to 6 September 2011 and performance of the External Auditor and the integrity Carolyn Hewson Member for whole period of the audit process as a whole: the performance and leadership of the internal audit function: Wayne Murdy Member for whole period the effectiveness of the systems of internal controls and Shriti Vadera Member from 16 August 2011 risk management: compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements: 1 Lindsay Maxsted was appointed as the Committees Chairman from 6 September 2011 when David Crawford retired from the Committee.
compliance by management with constraints imposed 2 Mr Crawford was, until 6 September 2011, the Committees financial by the Board.
expert nominated by the Board, and effective from 6 September 2011 the nominated financial expert has been Mr Maxsted.
The role of the Committee in the context of the Boards broader governance framework is summarised in the diagram below.
Activities undertaken during the year Further information about our approach to risk can be found Integrity of financial statements in sections 1.5 and 5.14.
The RAC assists the Board in assuring the integrity of the financial statements.
The RAC evaluates and makes recommendations BHP Billiton governance structure Risk and Audit Committee to the Board about the appropriateness of accounting policies and practices, areas of judgement, compliance with Accounting SHAREHOLDERS Standards, stock exchange and legal requirements and the results of the external audit.
It reviews the half-yearly and annual financial statements and makes recommendations on specific actions or decisions including formal adoption of the financial statements and reports the Board should consider in order to maintain the integrity of the financial statements.
From time to time, the Board may delegate authority to the RAC to approve the release of the statements to the stock exchanges, shareholders and the financial community.
The CEO and CFO have certified that the 2012 financial statements present a true and fair view, in all material respects, of our financial condition and operating results and are in accordance The RAC met 11 times during the year.
Information on meeting attendance by Committee members is included in the table in with applicable regulatory requirements.
section 5.11 and information on their qualifications is included External Auditor in section 4.1.
The RAC manages the relationship with the External Auditor In addition to the regular business of the year, the Committee on behalf of the Board.
It considers the reappointment of the discussed reform proposals from Europe and the United Kingdom External Auditor each year, as well as remuneration and other relating to: terms of engagement, and makes a recommendation to the Board.
The last competitive audit review was in 2003, when audit regime: KPMG was appointed by the Board on the recommendation role of risk and audit committees: of the RAC.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict annual reporting regime.
the RACs capacity to recommend a particular firm for The RAC continues to monitor the debate in these important areas appointment as auditor.
Shareholders are asked to approve the and will review and assess the Groups response to the updated reappointment of the auditor each year in the United Kingdom.
The RAC evaluates the performance of the External Auditor Business Group Risk and Audit committees during its term of appointment against specified criteria, To assist management in providing the information necessary including delivering value to shareholders and the Group.
to allow the RAC to discharge its responsibilities, Risk and Audit The RAC reviews the integrity, independence and objectivity Committees have been established, incorporating each CSG, of the External Auditor.
This review includes: and for key functional areas such as Marketing and Treasury.
confirming that the External Auditor is, in its judgement, These committees, known as Business Group RACs, have independent of the Group: been established and operate as committees of management, obtaining from the External Auditor an account of all but are chaired by members of the RAC.
The responsible member relationships between the External Auditor and the Group: of the GMC participates in those meetings.
Business Group monitoring the number of former employees of the External RACs perform an important monitoring function in the Auditor currently employed in senior positions within the overall governance of the Group.
Group and assessing whether those appointments impair, or appear to impair, the External Auditors judgement or independence: BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 121 A C C O U N T A B I L I T Y 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued considering whether the various relationships between the Activities not listed specifically are therefore not pre-approved Group and the External Auditor collectively impair, or appear and must be approved by the RAC prior to engagement, regardless to impair, the External Auditors judgement or independence: of the dollar value involved.
Additionally, any engagement for other services with a value over US$100,000, even if listed determining whether the compensation of individuals as a pre-approved service, can only be approved by the RAC, employed by the External Auditor who conduct the audit is and all engagements for other services, whether pre-approved tied to the provision of non-audit services and, if so, whether or not, and regardless of the dollar value involved, are reported this impairs, or appears to impair, the External Auditors quarterly to the RAC.
judgement or independence: reviewing the economic importance of our business to the While not specifically prohibited by our policy, any proposed External Auditor and assessing whether that importance non-audit engagement of the External Auditor relating to internal impairs, or appears to impair, the External Auditors judgement control such as a review of internal controls or assistance with or independence.
implementing the regulatory requirements, including the Securities Exchange Act must obtain specific prior approval by the RAC.
The External Auditor also certifies its independence to the RAC.
With the exception of the external audit of the Group financial The audit engagement partner rotates every five years.
report, any engagement identified that contains an internal control-related element is not considered to be pre-approved.
Although the External Auditor does provide some non-audit In addition, whilst the categories shown above include a list services, the objectivity and independence of the External Auditor of certain pre-approved services, the use of the External Auditor is safeguarded through restrictions on the provision of these to perform such services shall always be subject to our overriding services.
For example, certain types of non-audit service may governance practices as articulated in the policy.
only be undertaken by the External Auditor with the prior approval of the RAC as described below, while other services may not be An exception can be made to the above policy where such an undertaken at all, including services where the External Auditor: exception is in our interests and appropriate arrangements are put may be required to audit its own work: in place to ensure the integrity and independence of the External participates in activities that would normally be undertaken Auditor.
Any such exception requires the specific prior approval of the RAC and must be reported to the Board.
No exceptions were by management: approved during the year ended 30 June 2012. is remunerated through a success fee structure: acts in an advocacy role for our business.
In addition, the RAC approved no services during the year ended 30 June 2012 pursuant to paragraph c 7 i C of Rule 2-01 of the The RAC has adopted a policy entitled Provision of Audit SEC Regulation S-X.
and Other Services by the External Auditor covering the RACs pre-approval policies and procedures to maintain Fees paid to the Groups External Auditor during the year the independence of the External Auditor.
for audit and other services were US$34.9 million of which 61 per cent comprised audit fees, 28 per cent related to legislative requirements including Sarbanes-Oxley and 11 per cent was for other services.
Details of the fees paid are set out in note 34 Our Policy on Provision of Audit and Other Services by the External Auditor can be found on our website Auditors remuneration to the financial statements.
com home aboutus Based on the review by the RAC, the Board is satisfied that the ourcompany Pages governance.
Internal Audit In addition to audit services, the External Auditor will be permitted The Internal Audit function is carried out internally by Group Risk to provide other non-audit services that are not, and are not Assessment and Assurance RAA.
The role of RAA is to determine perceived to be, in conflict with the role of the External Auditor.
whether risk management, control and governance processes In accordance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange are adequate and functioning.
The Internal Audit function is Act and guidance contained in Public Company Accounting independent of the External Auditor.
The RAC reviews the mission Oversight Board PCAOB Release 2004-001, certain specific and charter of RAA, the staffing levels and its scope of work activities are listed in our detailed policy which have been to ensure that it is appropriate in light of the key risks we face.
It also reviews and approves the annual internal audit plan.
The categories of pre-approved services are as follows: The RAC also approves the appointment and dismissal of the Audit services work that constitutes the agreed scope of the Head of Group Risk Assessment and Assurance and assesses statutory audit and includes the statutory audits of the Group his or her performance, independence and objectivity.
The role and its entities including interim reviews.
The RAC will monitor of the Head of Group Risk Assessment and Assurance includes the Audit services engagements and approve, if necessary, achievement of the internal audit objectives, risk management any changes in terms and conditions resulting from changes policies and insurance strategy.
The position is held by Stefano in audit scope, Group structure or other relevant events.
Mr Giorgini reports to senior management and has Audit-related assurance services work that is outside the all necessary access to management and the RAC.
required scope of the statutory audit, but is consistent with the role of the external statutory auditor.
This category includes Effectiveness of systems of internal control and work that is reasonably related to the performance of an audit risk management or review and is a logical extension of the audit or review scope, In delegating authority to the CEO, the Board has established is of an assurance or compliance nature and is work that the CEO limits set out in the Board Governance Document.
External Auditor must or is best placed to undertake.
Limits on the CEOs authority require the CEO to ensure Tax services work of a tax nature that does not compromise that there is a system of control in place for identifying and the independence of the External Auditor.
The Directors, through the RAC, review the systems that have been established for this purpose and Other advisory services work of an advisory nature that does regularly review their effectiveness.
These reviews include not compromise the independence of the External Auditor.
assessing whether processes continue to meet evolving external governance requirements.
122 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 5.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued The RAC is responsible for the oversight of risk management BHP Billiton has engaged our independent registered public and reviews the internal controls and risk management systems.
accounting firms, KPMG and KPMG Audit Plc, to issue an audit In undertaking this role the RAC reviews the following: report on our internal control over financial reporting for inclusion in the financial statements section of our Annual Report on Form procedures for identifying business and operational risks 20-F as filed with the SEC.
and controlling their financial impact on the Group and the operational effectiveness of the policies and procedures There have been no changes in our internal control over financial related to risk and control: reporting during FY2012 that have materially affected, or are budgeting and forecasting systems, financial reporting systems reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over and controls: financial reporting.
policies and practices put in place by the CEO for detecting, The CEO and CFO have certified to the Board that the financial reporting and preventing fraud and serious breaches of business statements are founded on a sound system of risk management conduct and whistle-blowing procedures: and internal control and that the system is operating efficiently procedures for ensuring compliance with relevant regulatory and effectively in all material respects.
and legal requirements: During the year, the RAC reviewed our compliance with the arrangements for protecting intellectual property and other obligations imposed by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including non-physical assets: evaluating and documenting internal controls as required operational effectiveness of the Business Group RAC structures: by section 404 of the Act.
overseeing the adequacy of the internal controls and allocation Managements assessment of our disclosure controls of responsibilities for monitoring internal financial controls.
and procedures For further discussion on our approach to risk management, Our management, with the participation of our CEO refer to sections 1.5 and 5.14. and CFO, has performed an evaluation of the effectiveness During the year, the Board conducted reviews of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of 30 June 2012.
Disclosure controls and of the Groups system of internal controls for the financial year and up to the date of this Annual Report in accordance with procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that the material financial and non-financial information required the UK Corporate Governance Code Turnbull Guidance and the Principles and Recommendations published by the Australian to be disclosed by BHP Billiton, including in the reports that it files or submits under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Securities Exchange ASX Corporate Governance Council.
These reviews covered financial, operational and compliance is recorded, processed, summarised and reported on a timely basis and that such information is accumulated and communicated controls and risk assessment.
During the year, management presented an assessment of the material business risks facing to BHP Billitons management, including our CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required the Group and the level of effectiveness of risk management over the material business risks.
The reviews were overseen disclosure.
Based on the foregoing, our management, including the CEO and CFO, has concluded that our disclosure controls and by the RAC, with findings and recommendations reported to the Board.
In addition to considering key risks facing the procedures are effective in providing that reasonable assurance.
Group, the Board received an assessment of the effectiveness There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of internal controls over key risks identified through the of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility work of the Board committees.
The Board is satisfied of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the that the effectiveness of the internal controls has been controls and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure properly reviewed.
controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.
Managements assessment of our internal control over financial reporting Further, in the design and evaluation of our disclosure controls Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining and procedures, our management was necessarily required to adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined apply its judgement in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship in Rule 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the US Securities Exchange of possible controls and procedures.
Under the supervision and with the participation Committee evaluation of our management, including our CEO and CFO, we have evaluated During FY2011, the Committee retained the services of an the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial external adviser to assist with an assessment of the Committees reporting based on the framework and criteria established effectiveness, and this continued into FY2012.
The Committee also in Internal Controls Integrated Framework, issued by the reviewed its performance in accordance with its terms of reference.
Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission COSO.
As a result of this evaluation, the Committee is satisfied it has met Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that internal its terms of reference.
control over financial reporting was effective as at 30 June 2012.
There were no material weaknesses in the Groups internal controls over financial reporting identified by management.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements and, even when determined to be effective, can only provide reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
