11 Shareholder information continued Payments 11.3 Dividends BHP Billiton Limited shareholders may have their cash dividends Policy paid directly into a nominated bank, building society or credit We have a progressive dividend policy that seeks to steadily union, depending on the shareholders country of residence increase or at least to maintain the dividend in US dollars as shown below.
at each half yearly payment.
Country where We declare our dividends and other distributions in US dollars shareholder is resident Financial institution as it is our main functional currency.
BHP Billiton Limited pays its Australia Bank, building society, credit union dividends in Australian dollars, UK pounds sterling, New Zealand dollars or US dollars, depending on the country of residence of United Kingdom Bank, building society the shareholder.
BHP Billiton Plc pays its dividends in UK pounds New Zealand Bank sterling to shareholders registered on its principal register in the United Kingdom and in South African rand to shareholders United States Bank registered on its branch register in South Africa.
If shareholders Shareholders from the abovementioned locations who do not on the United Kingdom register wish to receive dividends in US dollars provide their direct credit details and shareholders with registered they must complete an appropriate election form and return it to the addresses outside Australia, the United Kingdom, New Zealand and BHP Billiton Share Registrar no later than close of business on the the United States will receive dividend payments by way of a cheque Dividend Record Date.
BHP Billiton Plc shareholders may have their cash dividends paid directly into a bank or building society by completing a dividend mandate form which is available from the BHP Billiton Share Registrar in the United Kingdom or South Africa.
11.4 Share price information The following tables show the share prices for the period indicated for ordinary shares and ADSs for each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
The share prices are the highest and lowest closing market quotations for ordinary shares reported on the Daily Official List of the Australian and London Stock Exchanges respectively, and the highest and lowest closing prices for ADSs quoted on the NYSE, adjusted to reflect stock dividends.
The total market capitalisation of BHP Billiton Limited at 30 June 2012 was A$101.0 billion US$101.4 billion equivalent, which represented approximately 7.72 per cent of the total market capitalisation of all companies listed on the ASX.
The closing price for BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares on the ASX on that date was A$31.45.
