Base Metals Manganese Ref Country Asset Description  Ownership 19 Australia Cannington Underground silver, lead and zinc mine, 100% 28 Australia Manganese Producer of manganese ore at GEMCO in the 60% located in northwest Queensland Australia Northern Territory and manganese alloys at TEMCO in Tasmania 20 Chile Pampa Norte Cerro Colorado and Spence open-cut 100% mines producing copper cathode in 29 South Africa Manganese Mamatwan open-cut and Wessels 44.460% the Atacama Desert, northern Chile South Africa underground manganese mines and the Metalloys manganese alloy plant 21 Chile Escondida Comprises the worlds largest copper 57.5% mine, concentrators and solvent Metallurgical Coal extraction plants and port operations a 22 Peru Antamina A joint venture open-cut copper 33.8% Ownership and zinc mine, located in the Andes 30 Australia Illawarra Underground coal mines West Cliff, 100% north-central Peru Coal Dendrobium, Appin in southern New South 23 US Base Metals Includes the Pinto Valley open-cut copper 100% Wales, with access to rail and port facilities North America mine, located in Arizona 31 Australia BHP Billiton Saraji, Goonyella Riverside, Peak Downs, 50% Mitsubishi Norwich Park, Gregory Crinum, Blackwater c Uranium Alliance and Broadmeadow open-cut and underground mines in the Queensland Bowen Basin and Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Hay Point Coal Terminal 24 Australia Olympic Large poly-metallic orebody and the 100% 32 Australia BHP Billiton South Walker Creek and Poitrel open-cut coal 80% Dam worlds largest uranium deposit, producing Mitsui Coal mines in the Queensland Bowen Basin copper, uranium, gold and silver Energy Coal Diamonds and Specialty Products  Ownership Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 33 Australia New South Mt Arthur Coal open-cut mine 100% 25 Canada EKATI Open-cut and underground diamond 80% Wales Energy Diamond mines, located in the Northwest Territories Coal Mine of Canada a 34 Colombia Cerrejn An open-cut coal mine, with integrated 33.3% rail and port operations Iron Ore 35 South Africa Energy Coal Khutala, Middelburg, Klipspruit, Wolvekrans 50100% Ref Country Asset Description Ownership South Africa open-cut and underground mines and coal 26 Australia Western Integrated iron ore mines Area C, Jimblebar, 85100% processing operations Australia Yandi, Newman and Yarrie, and rail 36 US New Mexico Navajo open-cut and San Juan 100% Iron Ore and port operations in the Pilbara region Coal underground mines of Western Australia a 27 Brazil Samarco Open-cut mine that produces iron ore pellets 50% Percentage ownership figures have been rounded to one decimal place.
9 9 47 1 1 7 7 44 45 28 28 4 4 5 5 19 32 26 31 6 6 35 35 15 46 38 29 29 16 24 17 33 33 40 12 37 41 30 39 3 3 2 2 28 28 In this Summary Review Our Charter Simplicity Read Our BHP Billiton Charter Read about how our operations focus on the things See page 2 that matter most See page 26 Our results at a glance A snapshot of our results and five-year financial summary Integrity See page 3 Our approach to doing what is right and doing what we say we will do Accountability See page 28 An overview of the year by Jac Nasser AO and Marius Kloppers See page 6 Board of Directors The profiles of BHP Billitons Directors Group Management Committee See page 29 Profiles of the senior management team at BHP Billiton See page 8 Corporate Governance Summary A summary of BHP Billitons governance Performance See page 32 An update from each of our Customer Sector Groups CSGs, providing a snapshot of BHP Billitons operational performance Remuneration Summary See page 12 Key policy principles and information about our remuneration See page 34 Sustainability An outline of our global approach to Sustainability Shareholder information See page 20 Key dates and information relevant to shareholders, including our dividend policy and payments Respect See page 36 Learn more about our core value of Respect, the focus of our people strategy Corporate Directory See page 22 A list of major BHP Billiton offices and share registries See Inside Back Cover This Summary Review is designed to provide you with an update Nothing in this Summary Review should be construed as either an offer on the operations and performance of BHP Billiton over the year ended to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy or sell BHP Billiton securities 30 June 2012 in a concise and easy-to-read format.
It is not a summary in any jurisdiction.
financial statement for the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006.
This Summary Review is not a substitute for the Annual Report 2012 This Summary Review is not intended to provide a guide as to and does not contain all the information needed to give as full an the likely future performance of the Group.
Certain statements understanding of the Groups performance, financial position and may be forward-looking statements which are based on current future prospects as is provided by the Annual Report 2012, which can expectations, beliefs and assumptions regarding present and future be downloaded from the BHP Billiton website at w w w. bhpbilliton.
business strategies and environments in which the Group will operate Printed copies of the Annual Report 2012 will be distributed to all in the future.
Such expectations, beliefs and assumptions may or shareholders who elected to receive them, and can be requested may not prove to be correct and are subject to a number of known by contacting the Share Registry.
and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, BHP Billiton Limited.
performance and achievements to differ materially.
The Annual Report Registered office: 180 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3000, Australia.
2012 sets out certain risk factors that may cause our results to be materially less favourable than those implied by these forward-looking BHP Billiton Plc.
Registered in England statements including, for example, fluctuations in commodity prices and Wales.
Registered office: Neathouse Place, London SW1V 1BH, UK.
and currency exchange rates, demand changes in major markets Each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are members of the and government regulations.
Past performance cannot be relied BHP Billiton Group, which is headquartered in Australia.
on as a guide to future performance.
We are BHP Billiton, a leading global resources company.
Our purpose is to create long-term shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
In more than 100 locations in over 25 countries, we are committed to working in ways that are true to Our BHP Billiton Charter values of Sustainability, Integrity, Respect, Performance, Simplicity and Accountability.
When we do, we continue to build on our success both today and for tomorrow.
