1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 1.5.
2 Approach to risk management Climate change and greenhouse effects may adversely We believe that the identification and management of risk impact our operations and markets is central to achieving our corporate purpose of creating long-term shareholder value.
Carbon-based energy is a significant input in a number of the Groups mining and processing operations and we have significant Our approach to risk recognises that it will manifest itself in sales of carbon-based energy products.
many forms and has the potential to impact our health and safety, environment, community, reputation, regulatory, market A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced and financial performance and, thereby, the achievement or are contemplating regulatory change in response to the impacts of our corporate purpose.
Under the December 2009 Copenhagen Accord, developed countries established individual greenhouse gas targets By understanding and managing risk, we provide greater and developing countries established national mitigation actions.
certainty and confidence for our shareholders, employees, The European Union Emissions Trading System EU ETS, which came customers, suppliers, and for the communities in which into effect on 1 January 2005, has had an impact on greenhouse we operate.
Successful risk management can be a source gas and energy-intensive businesses based in the EU.
Our Petroleum of competitive advantage.
assets in the United Kingdom are currently subject to the EU ETS, Risks faced by the Group are managed on an enterprise-wide as are our EU based customers.
Elsewhere, there is current and basis.
The natural diversification in the Groups portfolio of emerging climate change regulation that will affect energy prices, commodities, geographies, currencies, assets and liabilities demand and margins for carbon intensive products.
The Australian is a key element in our risk management approach.
Governments plan of action on climate change, which commenced on 1 July 2012, includes a fixed price on carbon emissions and Risk management is embedded in our critical business activities, converting to an emissions trading scheme after three years, and functions and processes.
Materiality and our tolerance for risk a mandatory renewable energy target of 20 per cent by the year 2020. are key considerations in our decision-making.
From a medium to long-term perspective, we are likely to see some Risk issues are identified, analysed and assessed in a consistent changes in the cost position of our  assets manner.
Performance requirements exist for the identification, and energy-intensive assets as a result of regulatory impacts in the assessment, control and monitoring of material risk issues countries in which we operate.
These proposed regulatory mechanisms that could threaten our corporate purpose and business plans.
may impact our operations directly or indirectly through our These include: suppliers and customers.
Inconsistency of regulations particularly The potential for impacts on the achievement of our corporate between developed and developing countries may also change purpose and business plans is identified through risk assessments the competitive position of some of our assets.
Assessments of the using approved materiality and tolerability criteria.
The severity potential impact of future climate change regulation are uncertain of any risk event is assessed according to a matrix that describes given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in the many the degree of harm, injury or loss from the most severe impact countries in which we operate.
The South African Government plans associated with that risk event, assuming reasonable effectiveness to introduce a carbon tax beginning in 2013, however the details of controls.
Carbon pricing has also been discussed as part of a broader tax reform package in Chile.
A risk assessment risk identification, risk analysis and risk evaluation is conducted for material risk issues.
The physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly Risk controls are designed, implemented, operated and assessed uncertain and will be particular to the geographic circumstances.
to produce a residual risk that is tolerable.
Performance standards These may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, are established for critical controls over material risks with rising sea levels, increased storm intensities and higher average supporting monitoring and verification processes.
These effects may adversely impact the productivity and financial performance of our operations.
The Group has established processes that apply when entering or commencing new activities in higher governance risk countries.
A breach of our governance processes may lead to regulatory Risk assessments and a supporting risk management plan are penalties and loss of reputation required to ensure that potential reputation, legal, business conduct We operate in a global environment straddling multiple and corruption-related exposures are tolerable and legislative jurisdictions and complex regulatory frameworks.
Our governance compliance is maintained, including relevant anti-corruption and compliance processes, which include the review of internal legislation and the application of any sanctions or trade embargos.
control over financial reporting and specific internal controls in Our risk management governance approach is described in relation to offers of things of value to government officials and representatives of state owned enterprises, may not prevent future sections 5.13.1 and 5.14. potential breaches of law, accounting or governance practice.
The BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct, together with our mandatory policies, such as the anti-corruption and the anti-trust policies, may not prevent instances of fraudulent behaviour and dishonesty nor guarantee compliance with legal or regulatory requirements.
This may lead to regulatory fines, litigation, loss of operating licences or reputational damage.
