7 Directors Report continued in section 6.8 and note 30 Key Management Personnel 7.3 Results, financial instruments to the financial statements of this Annual Report.
and going concern We have not made available to any Director any interest in Information about our financial position and financial results a registered scheme.
is included in the financial statements in this Annual Report.
The income statement shows profit attributable to BHP Billiton The former Directors of BHP Limited participated in a retirement plan under which they were entitled to receive a payment on members of US$15.4 billion compared with US$23.6 billion in FY2011.
retirement calculated by reference to years of service.
This plan was closed on 24 October 2003, and benefits accrued to that The Groups business activities, together with the factors date are held by BHP Billiton Limited and will be paid on retirement.
likely to affect its future development, performance and position Further information about this plan and its closure are set out are discussed in section 3 of this Annual Report.
In addition, in section 6.10.3 of this Annual Report.
sections 1.5 and 5.14, and note 28 Financial risk management to the financial statements detail the Groups capital management 7.5.
3 GMC members objectives, its approach to financial risk management and The table contained in section 7.21 of this Directors Report sets exposure to financial risks, liquidity and borrowing facilities.
out the relevant interests held by members of the GMC other Each of these sections is incorporated into, and forms part than the Executive Director in shares of BHP Billiton Limited and of, this Directors Report.
BHP Billiton Plc at the beginning and end of FY2012, and at the date of this Directors Report.
Interests held by members of the The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a GMC under share and option plans as at 30 June 2012 are set reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources out in the tables showing interests in incentive plans contained to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
in section 6.8 and note 30 Key Management Personnel Therefore they continue to adopt the going-concern basis to the financial statements of this Annual Report.
of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
7.6 Secretaries 7.4 Directors Jane McAloon is the Group Company Secretary.
Details of her The Directors who served at any time during or since the qualifications and experience are set out in section 4.1 of this Annual end of the financial year were Jac Nasser, Marius Kloppers, Report.
The following people also act as the Company Secretaries Malcolm Broomhead, John Buchanan, Carlos Cordeiro, of either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc: Nicola Evans, David Crawford, Pat Davies, Carolyn Hewson, Lindsay Maxsted, BBus, Deputy Company Secretary, BHP Billiton Limited, and Wayne Murdy, Keith Rumble, John Schubert and Shriti Vadera.
Geof Stapledon, BEc, LLB Hons, DPhil, FCIS, Deputy Company Further details of the Directors of BHP Billiton Limited and Secretary, BHP Billiton Plc and Elizabeth Hobley, BA Hons, ACIS, BHP Billiton Plc are set out in section 4.1 of this Annual Report.
Deputy Company Secretary, BHP Billiton Plc.
Each such individual These details include the period for which each Director held has experience in a company secretariat role or other relevant office up to the date of this Directors Report, their qualifications, fields arising from time spent in such roles within BHP Billiton, experience and particular responsibilities, the directorships held large listed companies or other relevant entities.
in other listed companies since 1 July 2009, and the period for which each directorship has been held.
7.7 Indemnities and insurance Mr Davies was appointed as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 1 June 2012, and in accordance Rule 146 of the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Article 146 with the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of of the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association require each Company Association of BHP Billiton Plc, Mr Davies will seek election at the to indemnify to the extent permitted by law, each Director, Secretary 2012 Annual General Meetings.
or Executive Officer of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees held respectively against liability incurred in, or arising out of, the conduct during the year and each Directors attendance at those meetings of the business of the Company or the discharge of the duties of the are set out in section 5.11 of this Annual Report.
Director, Secretary and Executive Officer.
The Directors named in section 4.1 of this Annual Report, the Executive Officers and the Company Secretaries of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc 7.5 Remuneration and share interests have the benefit of this requirement, as do individuals who formerly held one of those positions.
1 Remuneration The policy for determining the nature and amount of emoluments In accordance with this requirement, BHP Billiton Limited and of members of the Group Management Committee GMC including BHP Billiton Plc have entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Access and the Executive Director and the Non-executive Directors and Insurance Deeds of Indemnity with each of their respective Directors.
information about the relationship between that policy and The Deeds of Indemnity are qualifying third party indemnity provisions our performance are set out in sections 6.4 to 6.8 and 6.10 for the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006. of this Annual Report.
We have a policy that we will, as a general rule, support and hold The remuneration tables contained in sections 6.7 to 6.10 of this harmless an employee, including an employee appointed as a Director Annual Report set out the remuneration of members of the GMC of a subsidiary who, while acting in good faith, incurs personal liability including the Executive Director and the Non-executive Directors.
to others as a result of working for us.
From time to time, we engage our External Auditor, KPMG, to conduct 7.5.
2 Directors non-statutory audit work and provide other services in accordance The table contained in section 7.20 of this Directors Report sets with our policy on the provision of other services by the External out the relevant interests in shares in BHP Billiton Limited and Auditor.
The terms of engagement typically include an indemnity BHP Billiton Plc of the Directors who held office during FY2012, in favour of KPMG: at the beginning and end of FY2012, and in relation to all Directors against all losses, claims, costs, expenses, actions, demands, in office as at the date of this Directors Report, their relevant damages, liabilities or any proceedings liabilities incurred interests in shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc by KPMG in respect of third party claims arising from a breach as at the date of this Directors Report.
No rights or options over by the Group under the engagement terms: shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are held by any of the Non-executive Directors.
Interests held by the Executive for all liabilities KPMG has to the Group or any third party Director under share and option plans as at 30 June 2012 are set as a result of reliance on information provided by the Group out in the tables showing interests in incentive plans contained that is false, misleading or incomplete.
