1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report affirmative action may be required to address historical imbalances 2.8.
4 Keeping our people safe and healthy continued and past discrimination through programs such as Indigenous Safely undertaking deepwater drilling employment and training and Black Economic Empowerment.
Deepwater oil and gas exploration is an important aspect of our worldwide business.
Our team of skilled drilling professionals, Additional information relating to diversity, and employee policies comprehensive processes and systems are fundamental to ensuring and involvement at BHP Billiton is available in sections 5.17 and 7.8 our deepwater drilling operations are conducted in a safe manner of this Report and in the Sustainability Report 2012 available online that comply with the United States Bureau of Ocean Energy at www.
Management, Regulation and Enforcement regulations and our 2.8.
6 Reducing our climate change impacts own strict requirements.
Following the oil spill from BPs Macondo As a global organisation operating in an energy-intensive industry, well in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010, we reviewed our deepwater we are actively managing risks associated with climate change, drilling safety standards to assess the effectiveness of our existing which are discussed in section 1.5 of this Report.
risk management controls, which were tested and improved where required.
Potential impacts of climate change on our organisation Managing aviation risk In the medium and long-term, we are likely to see changes in the cost structures of our greenhouse gas GHG intensive assets Aviation is a significant material safety risk.
We move a substantial as a result of regulatory requirements in the countries where we number of people by chartered aircraft each year.
This may also have implications for our suppliers and aviation safety assurance process continues to use the Flight Safety customers.
Inconsistency of regulations, particularly between Foundation Basic Aviation Risk Standard to satisfy the minimum developed and developing countries, could affect the investment technical requirements for contracted aviation activities.
In FY2012, attractiveness of assets in different jurisdictions.
through our Aviation GLD, we enhanced the operational review process undertaken by our aviation specialists to assess the Potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations effectiveness of aviation critical controls.
The Aviation GLD was may include changes in precipitation patterns, increased storm also updated to provide greater emphasis on operational readiness intensities and higher average temperature levels, which may and airfield infrastructure.
We engage with our aviation specialists adversely affect the productivity and financial performance to ensure we maintain the necessary balance between audit and of our operations.
approval of aircraft operations and the risk-based operational Reducing energy intensity and greenhouse gas emissions review in the field.
We strive to continually improve energy and GHG management.
Occupational health exposures Our operations with material emissions must implement and Our priority is to control exposures at their source.
Health risks maintain Energy and GHG Management Plans.
These plans faced by our people include fatigue and other causes of impaired include a five-year forecast and identification, evaluation and fitness for work, as well as occupational exposure to noise, silica, implementation of energy-efficiency and GHG-reduction projects.
manganese, diesel exhaust particulate, fluorides, coal tar pitch, Emissions abatement and energy savings are key considerations nickel and sulphuric acid mist.
Our Health GLD requires that an in our decision-making, and we undertake transparent public exposure risk profile be established and maintained for our employees reporting of our emissions.
In FY2012, our carbon-based energy and contractors and that relevant exposure controls be identified intensity and GHG emissions intensity were lower than the FY2006 and implemented.
If the potential exposure to harmful agents baseline, by 15 per cent and 16 per cent, resulting in the successful exceeds 50 per cent of the occupational exposure limit OEL, achievement of our FY2012 target of 13 per cent and six per cent medical surveillance is implemented to identify potential illness respectively.
This result was primarily driven by the use of or health effects at an early stage and to provide feedback as to hydroelectric power to supply 98 per cent of the electricity needs whether the exposure controls we have in place are functioning at our Mozal aluminium smelter in Mozambique.
The result also as designed.
We have seen a 41 per cent reduction since FY2009 reflects successful implementation of energy efficiency projects in the number of carcinogen exposures to our employees that and reductions of fugitive methane emissions.
This does not take into account the protection afforded by PPE.
We work collaboratively with customers, communities and employees to reduce emissions and support internal emissions reduction Serious disease projects.
To this end, we committed to spending US$300 million BHP Billiton operations with a high exposure to serious diseases, over the 2008 to 2012 period to support the implementation of such as HIV AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, have education, training energy efficient and low GHG emission technologies.
We exceeded and counselling programs in place to assist employees.
We also our commitment, having spent US$430 million on projects, which offer prevention and risk-control programs to employees and, are in various stages of implementation.
While this commitment was where appropriate, to employees families and local communities.
realised in FY2012, we remain focused on establishing projects that We help manage the impact of disease and protect the viability reduce our energy consumption and carbon emissions footprint.
of our operations by assisting in caring for our employees and the wellbeing of our host communities.
Future greenhouse gas emissions abatement and targets In FY2011 and FY2012, our Customer Sector Groups identified 2.8.
5 Employing and developing our people GHG emissions abatement projects and committed to implementing Attracting, employing and developing people with exceptional skills, the most cost-effective options from FY2012 through to FY2017.
who share our values, provides us with a competitive advantage The suite of abatement projects successfully implemented in and is critical to our long-term sustainability.
Each individual brings FY2012 will deliver an annual GHG emissions reduction of up to unique skills, experience and perspectives, and we recognise that 260,000 tonnes.
The combined effect of all abatement projects we are strengthened by diversity.
We are committed to providing to be undertaken through to FY2017 has enabled us to set a target a work environment in which everyone is treated fairly and to limit FY2017 GHG emissions equal to or below FY2006 levels.
with respect and has the opportunity to maximise their potential.
Engaging in policy development We value promoting from within and seek to build a high-performance organisation through fair reward and recognition.
The issues associated with climate change continue to be a challenge for governments, communities and industries around Recruitment is managed on a local basis by each Customer Sector the world and it seems a global solution to climate change is some Group, Minerals Exploration, Marketing and Group Function.
Until then, nations are likely to continue to accelerate Employment is offered and provided based on merit.
Every person their domestic emissions reduction efforts and establish low-carbon applying for a job is evaluated according to their job-related economies, balancing their needs to ensure a reliable energy supply skills, qualifications, abilities, aptitudes and alignment with and sustain economic growth.
Our BHP Billiton Charter values.
We acknowledge that targeted BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 47
