4 Board of Directors and Group Management Committee 4.1 Board of Directors Jac Nasser AO, BBus, Hon DT, 64 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Director of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and since November 2002.
BHP Billiton Plc since June 2006.
Jac Nasser was appointed Chairman of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Non-executive advisory partner since March 2010 of One on 31 March 2010.
Equity Partners JPMorgan Chase & Cos Private Equity Business Partner from November 2002 until March 2010.
Independent: Yes Member of the International Advisory Council of Allianz Skills and experience: Following a 33-year career with Ford Motor Aktiengesellschaft since February 2001.
Company in various leadership positions in Europe, Australia, Former Director of Brambles Limited from March 2004 Asia, South America and the United States, Mr Nasser served to January 2008. as a member of the Board of Directors and as President and Board Committee membership: Chief Executive Officer of Ford Motor Company from 1998 to 2001.
Mr Nasser has more than 30 years experience in large-scale Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
global businesses and a decade of private equity investment and operating expertise.
Marius Kloppers BE Chem, MBA, PhD Materials Science, 50 Mr Kloppers was previously Chief Marketing Officer, Group Executive of Billiton Plc, Chief Executive of Samancor Manganese and held Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc various positions at Billiton Aluminium, including Chief Operating since January 2006.
Marius Kloppers was appointed Chief Executive Officer and General Manager of Hillside Aluminium.
Other directorships and offices current and recent : Independent: No Chairman of the International Council on Mining and Metals Skills and experience: Mr Kloppers has extensive knowledge since October 2011 and former Deputy Chairman from October of the mining industry and of BHP Billitons operations.
Active in 2008 to October 2011. the mining and resources industry since 1993, he was appointed Board Committee membership: Chief Commercial Officer in December 2003 and Group President Non-Ferrous Materials and Executive Director in January 2006.
Malcolm Broomhead MBA, BE, 60 held a number of senior positions at North Limited, including Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer and, prior Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc to that, held senior management positions with Halcrow UK, since March 2010.
MIM Holdings, Peko Wallsend and Industrial Equity.
Independent: Yes Other directorships and offices current and recent : Skills and experience: Malcolm Broomhead has extensive experience Chairman of Asciano Limited since October 2009. in running industrial and mining companies with a global footprint Director of Coates Group Holdings Pty Ltd since January 2008. and broad global experience in project development in many of the countries in which BHP Billiton operates.
Mr Broomhead was Board Committee membership: Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Orica Limited from Member of the Sustainability Committee.
Prior to joining Orica, Mr Broomhead Member of the Finance Committee.
Sir John Buchanan BSc, MSc Hons 1, PhD, 69 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Chairman of ARM Holdings Plc UK since May 2012.
Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since February 2003.
Sir John Buchanan has been designated as the Chairman of Smith & Nephew Plc since April 2006 and Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc since his appointment.
former Deputy Chairman from February 2005 to April 2006.
Chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce UK Independent: Yes since May 2008.
Skills and experience: Educated at Auckland, Oxford and Harvard, Member of Advisory Board of Ondra Bank since June 2009.
Sir John has broad international business experience gained in Chairman of the UK Trustees for the Christchurch Earthquake appeal.
large and complex international businesses.
He has substantial Former Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman of experience in the petroleum industry and knowledge of the Vodafone Group Plc from July 2006 to July 2012 and Director international investor community.
He has held various leadership from April 2003 to July 2012. roles in strategic, financial, operational and marketing positions, Former Director of AstraZeneca Plc from April 2002 to April 2010. including executive experience in different countries.
He is a former Executive Director and Group Chief Financial Officer of BP, Treasurer Board Committee membership: and Chief Executive of BP Finance and Chief Operating Officer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Nomination Committee.
Carlos Cordeiro AB, MBA, 56 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Advisory Director of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since December 2001. since February 2005.
Non-executive Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia LLC Independent: Yes since December 2001.
Skills and experience: Carlos Cordeiro brings to the Board more Board Committee membership: than 30 years experience in providing strategic and financial Member of the Remuneration Committee.
advice to corporations, financial institutions and governments around the world.
Mr Cordeiro was previously Partner and Managing Director of Goldman Sachs Group Inc and Executive Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia LLC.
