2 Information on the Company continued Subject to applicable laws, a Director is entitled to vote, 2.12 Constitution and be counted in the quorum, in respect of any resolution The following text summarises the Constitution of concerning any of the following matters, namely where the BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton material personal interest: Plc.
The effect of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the arises because the Director is a shareholder of BHP Billiton and Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc is, so far as possible, is held in common with the other shareholders of BHP Billiton: identical.
Where the term BHP Billiton is used in this description arises in relation to the Directors remuneration as a Director of the Constitution and Articles of Association, it can be read of BHP Billiton: to mean either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
relates to a contract BHP Billiton is proposing to enter into that Certain provisions of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and is subject to approval by the shareholders and will not impose any the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc can only be amended obligation on BHP Billiton if it is not approved by the shareholders: where such amendment is approved by special resolution either: arises merely because the Director is a guarantor or has given by approval as a Class Rights Action, where the amendment an indemnity or security for all or part of a loan, or proposed loan, results in a change to an Entrenched Provision: or to BHP Billiton: otherwise, as a Joint Electorate Action.
arises merely because the Director has a right of subrogation in relation to a guarantee or indemnity referred to above: A description of Joint Electorate Actions and Class Rights Actions is contained under the heading Equalisation of economic and relates to a contract that insures, or would insure, the Director against liabilities the Director incurs as an officer of BHP Billiton, voting rights in section 2.10.2 of this Report.
but only if the contract does not make BHP Billiton or a related 2.12.1 Directors body corporate the insurer: The management and control of the business and affairs of relates to any payment by BHP Billiton or a related body corporate BHP Billiton are vested in the Board of Directors, which may exercise in respect of an indemnity permitted by law, or any contract all powers of BHP Billiton, other than those which are required to be relating to such an indemnity: or exercised or done by BHP Billiton in a general meeting.
is in a contract, or proposed contract with, or for the benefit of, or on behalf of, a related body corporate and arises merely 2.12.2 Power to issue securities because the Director is a director of a related body corporate.
BHP Billiton may, pursuant to the Constitution and Articles of Association, issue any shares or other securities including redeemable 2.12.4 Loans by Directors shares with preferred, deferred or other special rights, obligations Any Director may lend money to BHP Billiton at interest with or or restrictions as and when the Directors may determine and on without security or may, for a commission or profit, guarantee the any other terms the Directors consider appropriate, provided that: repayment of any money borrowed by BHP Billiton and underwrite any such issue does not affect any special rights conferred on or guarantee the subscription of shares or securities of BHP Billiton the holders of any shares: or of any corporation in which BHP Billiton may be interested without being disqualified as a Director and without being liable any such issue is subject to the provisions regarding shareholder to account for BHP Billiton for any commission or profit.
approval in the Constitution and Articles of Association: the rights attaching to a class other than ordinary shares are 2.12.5 Retirement of Directors expressed at the date of issue.
In 2011, the Board adopted a policy consistent with the UK Corporate Governance Code, under which all Directors must, if they wish 2.12.3 Restrictions on voting by Directors to remain on the Board, seek re-election by shareholders annually.
A Director may not vote in respect of any contract or arrangement This policy took effect at the 2011 Annual General Meetings, and or any other proposal in which he or she has a material personal replaced the previous system, as set out in the Constitution and interest.
A Director shall not be counted in the quorum at a Articles of Association, under which Directors were required to meeting in relation to any resolution on which he or she is not submit themselves to shareholders for re-election at least every entitled to vote.
In addition, under the UK Companies Act 2006, a Director has 2.12.6 Rights attaching to shares a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or may conflict with Dividend rights the interests of the company.
The duty is not infringed, if among Under English law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of other things, the situation is authorised by non-interested Directors.
Under Australian law, dividends The Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc enable the Board to on shares may only be paid out of net assets, provided that the authorise a matter that might otherwise involve a Director breaching payment is fair and reasonable to the companys shareholders his or her duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
An interested Director as a whole and the payment of the dividend does not materially may not vote or be counted towards a quorum for a resolution prejudice the companys ability to pay its creditors.
The Constitution authorising such a situation.
Where the Board gives such and Articles of Association provide that payment of any dividend authorisation, the Board may prohibit, or may establish regulations may be made in any manner, by any means and in any currency which prohibit, the relevant Director from voting on any matter determined by the Board.
The Board has adopted procedures to All unclaimed dividends may be invested or otherwise used manage these voting restrictions.
by the Board for the benefit of whichever of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc declared that dividend, until claimed or, in the case of BHP Billiton Limited, otherwise disposed of according to law.
In the case of BHP Billiton Plc, any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the date on which such dividend was declared or became due for payment shall be forfeited and shall revert to BHP Billiton Plc.
54 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Rights to share in BHP Billiton Plcs profits 2.12.6 Rights attaching to shares continued The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Plc, in relation Voting rights to the participation in the profits available for distribution, Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders are as follows: can, in the first instance, be conducted by a show of hands unless The holders of the cumulative preference shares shall be entitled, a poll is demanded by any of the following except in relation to the election of a chairman of a meeting or, unless the Chairman in priority to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other class of shares, to be paid a fixed cumulative preferential dividend otherwise determines, the adjournment of a meeting, or is otherwise required as outlined below : Preferential Dividend at a rate of 5.5 per cent per annum, to be paid annually in arrears on 31 July in each year or, if any such date the Chairman: shall be a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday in England, on the any shareholder under the law: or first business day following such date in each year.
Payments of the holder of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share.
Preferential Dividends shall be made to holders on the register Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc can, in the at any date selected by the Directors up to 42 days prior to the first instance, be conducted by a show of hands unless a poll relevant fixed dividend date.
is demanded by any of the following, except in relation to the Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference election of a chairman of a meeting or, unless the Chairman shares, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other otherwise determines, the adjournment of a meeting, or is classes of shares, the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting otherwise required as outlined below : Share shall be entitled to be paid a fixed dividend of US$0.01 per the Chairman: annum, payable annually in arrears on 31 July.
not less than five members present in person or by proxy and Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference entitled to vote: shares and the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes of shares, the a member or members present in person or by proxy and holder of the Equalisation Share shall be entitled to be paid such representing not less than five per cent of the total voting rights dividends as the Board may decide to pay thereon.
of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: or Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share.
shall be payable to the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary As described under the heading Equalisation of economic and shares in equal amounts per BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share.
voting rights in section 2.10.2 of this Report, certain matters may be decided as Joint Electorate Actions or Class Rights Actions.
2.12.7 Right on a return of assets on liquidation Any matter considered by shareholders at an Annual General On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Limited, the Meeting of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc constitutes assets of BHP Billiton Limited remaining available for distribution a Joint Electorate Action and shall therefore be decided on a poll.
among shareholders, after giving effect to the payment of all prior Therefore, in practice, generally all items of business at Annual ranking amounts owed to all creditors and holders of preference General Meetings proceed directly to poll.
shares, and to all prior ranking statutory entitlements, shall be applied in paying to the holders of the BHP Billiton Limited Special In addition, at any general meeting a resolution, other than Voting Share and the Equalisation Share if any an amount of up a procedural resolution, put to the vote of the meeting on which to A$2.00 on each such share, on an equal priority with any amount the holder of the relevant BHP Billiton Special Voting Share is paid to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares, and any entitled to vote shall be decided on a poll.
surplus remaining shall be applied in making payments solely to the For the purposes of determining which shareholders are entitled to holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares in accordance with attend or vote at a meeting of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited, their entitlements.
and how many votes such shareholder may cast, the relevant company On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Plc, subject to will specify in any notice of meeting a time, not more than 48 hours the payment of all prior ranking amounts owed to the creditors of before the time fixed for the meeting, by which a shareholder must BHP Billiton Plc and to all prior ranking statutory entitlements, the be entered on the Register of Shareholders in order to have the right assets of BHP Billiton Plc to be distributed on a winding-up shall be to attend or vote at the relevant meeting.
distributed to the holders of shares in the following order of priority: Shareholders who wish to appoint a proxy to attend, vote or speak To the holders of the cumulative preference shares, the repayment at a meeting of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited as appropriate of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid on their behalf, must deposit the relevant form appointing a proxy in up on the cumulative preference shares held by them and accrual, accordance with the instructions contained in any notice of meeting, if any, of the Preferential Dividend, whether such dividend so as to be received in the specified manner not less than 48 hours has been earned or declared or not, calculated up to the before the time appointed for holding the meeting to which the date of commencement of the winding-up.
To the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares and to Rights to share in BHP Billiton Limiteds profits the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Limited, Equalisation Share, the payment out of surplus, if any, remaining as regards the participation in the profits available for distribution, after the distribution above of an equal amount for each are as follows: BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share, the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the Equalisation Share, if issued, subject to a maximum The holders of any preference shares shall be entitled, in priority in the case of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other class of Equalisation Share of the nominal capital paid up on such shares.
shares, to a preferred right to participate as regards dividends up to but not beyond a specified amount in distribution.
Subject to the special rights attaching to any preference shares, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes of shares, the holder of the Equalisation Share if any shall be entitled to be paid such dividends as are declared or paid thereon.
Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above shall be payable to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares and the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share in equal amounts per share.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 55 2 Information on the Company continued 2.12.8 Redemption of preference shares 2.12.12 Conditions governing general meetings If BHP Billiton Limited at any time proposes to create and issue All provisions relating to general meetings apply with any necessary any preference shares, the preference shares may be issued on modifications to any special meeting of any class of shareholders the terms that they are to be redeemed or, at the option of either that may be held.
Therefore, the following information relates or both BHP Billiton Limited and the holder, are liable to be equally to general meetings and any special meeting of any redeemed, whether out of share capital, profits or otherwise.
The preference shares confer on the holders the right to convert the The Board may and shall on requisition in accordance with preference shares into ordinary shares if, and on the basis, the Board applicable laws call a general meeting of the shareholders determines at the time of issue of the preference shares.
at the time and place or places and in the manner determined by the Board.
No shareholder may convene a general meeting The preference shares are to confer on the holders: of BHP Billiton except where entitled under law to do so.
the right on redemption and on a winding up to payment in Any Director may convene a general meeting whenever the cash in priority to any other class of shares of i the amount Director thinks fit.
General meetings can also be cancelled, paid or agreed to be considered as paid on each of the preference postponed or adjourned, where permitted by law or the shares: ii the amount, if any, equal to the aggregate of any Constitution or Articles of Association.
Notice of a general dividends accrued but unpaid and of any arrears of dividends: meeting must be given to each shareholder entitled to vote the right, in priority to any payment of dividend on any other class at the meeting and such notice of meeting must be given in the of shares, to the preferential dividend.
form and manner in which the Board thinks fit.
Five shareholders of the relevant company present in person or by proxy constitute There is no equivalent provision in the Articles of Association a quorum for a meeting.
A shareholder who is entitled to attend of BHP Billiton Plc although as noted in section 2.12.2 above, and cast a vote at a general meeting of BHP Billiton may appoint BHP Billiton can issue preference shares which are subject to a right a person as a proxy to attend and vote for the shareholder in of redemption on terms the Board considers appropriate.
2.12.9 Capital calls 2.12.13 Limitations on rights to own securities Subject to the terms on which any shares may have been issued, Neither the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited nor the Articles the Board may make calls on the shareholders in respect of all of Association of BHP Billiton Plc impose any limitations on the monies unpaid on their shares.
BHP Billiton has a lien on every rights to own securities other than restrictions that reflect the partly paid share for all amounts payable in respect of that share.
takeovers codes under relevant Australian and UK law.
In addition, Each shareholder is liable to pay the amount of each call in the the Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 manner, at the time and at the place specified by the Board subject imposes a number of conditions that restrict foreign ownership to receiving at least 14 days notice specifying the time and place of Australian-based companies.
A call is considered to have been made at the time when the resolution of the Board authorising the call was passed.
Share control limits imposed by the Constitution and the Articles of Association, as well as relevant laws, are described in sections 2.7.
2 2.12.10 Borrowing powers and 2.10.2 of this Report.
Subject to relevant law, the Directors may exercise all powers of BHP Billiton to borrow money, and to mortgage or charge its 2.12.14 Documents on display undertaking, property, assets both present and future and all You can consult reports and other information about uncalled capital or any part or parts thereof and to issue debentures BHP Billiton Limited that it has filed pursuant to the rules of and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for the ASX at w w w. asx.
You can consult reports and other any debt, liability or obligation of BHP Billiton or of any third party.
information filed for publication by BHP Billiton Plc pursuant to the rules of the UK Listing Authority at the Authoritys document 2.12.11 Changes to rights of shareholders viewing facility the National Storage Mechanism.
Information filed Rights attached to any class of shares issued by either on the ASX, or pursuant to the rules of the UK Listing Authority is not BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc can only be varied whether incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.
The documents as a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action where such referred to in this Annual Report as being available on our website, variation is approved both: www.
com, are not incorporated by reference and by the Company that issued the relevant shares, as a do not form part of this Annual Report.
special resolution: BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc both file annual and by the holders of the issued shares of the affected class, either special reports and other information with the SEC.
These filings by a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the are available on the SEC website at w w w. sec.
go v. You may also holders of the issued shares of the class affected, or with the read and copy any document that either BHP Billiton Limited or written consent of members with at least 75 per cent of the BHP Billiton Plc files at the SECs public reference room located votes of that class.
at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or access the SEC website at w w w. sec.
go v for further information on the public reference room.
