1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 1 Key information 1.1 Our business We are BHP Billiton, a leading global resources company.
Our purpose is to create long-term shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
Our strategy is to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets diversified by commodity, geography and market.
This strategy means more predictable business performance over time which, in turn, underpins the creation of value for our shareholders, customers, employees and, importantly, the communities in which we operate.
We are among the worlds top producers of major commodities including, iron ore, metallurgical coal, conventional and non-conventional oil and gas, copper, energy coal, aluminium, manganese, uranium, nickel and silver.
The Group is headquartered in Melbourne, Australia, and consists We operate eight businesses, called Customer Sector Groups CSGs : of the BHP Billiton Limited Group and the BHP Billiton Plc Group Petroleum as a combined enterprise, following the completion of the Dual 1 Aluminium Listed Company DLC merger in June 2001.
Base Metals including Uranium BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each retained their Diamonds and Specialty Products separate corporate identities and maintained their separate stock 1 Stainless Steel Materials exchange listings, but they are operated and managed as a single Iron Ore unified economic entity, with their boards and senior executive Manganese management comprising the same people.
Metallurgical Coal BHP Billiton Limited has a primary listing on the Australian Securities Energy Coal Exchange ASX in Australia.
BHP Billiton Plc has a premium listing 1 In May 2 012, we announced that our Stainless Steel Materials and on the London Stock Exchange LSE in the United Kingdom and Aluminium CSGs would consolidate into a single CSG named Aluminium a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE in and Nickel.
In this Report, Aluminium and Stainless Steel Materials South Africa.
In addition, BHP Billiton Limited American Depositary are reported separately.
Receipts ADRs and BHP Billiton Plc ADRs trade on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the United States.
As at 30 June 2012, we had a market capitalisation of approximately US$160.6 billion.
For FY2012, we reported net operating cash flow of US$24.4 billion, revenue of US$72.2 billion and profit attributable to shareholders of US$15.4 billion.
We have approximately 125,000 employees and contractors working in more than 100 locations worldwide.
