1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 5.4 Board membership continued 5.7 Director skills, experience and attributes attend all the regularly scheduled Board meetings, by invitation, Skills, experience and attributes required where they make presentations and engage in discussions with The Board considers that a diversity of skills, backgrounds, Directors, answer questions, and provide input and perspective knowledge, experience, geographic location, nationalities and gender on their areas of responsibility.
The Board also deliberates in is required in order to effectively govern the business.
The Board the absence of management at the beginning and end of each and its committees work to ensure that the Board continues to have meeting, which is chaired by the Group Chairman.
the right balance of skills, experience, independence and Group knowledge necessary to discharge its responsibilities in accordance The Directors of the Group are: with the highest standards of governance.
Mr Jac Nasser Chairman Ms Carolyn Hewson Mr Marius Kloppers CEO Mr Lindsay Maxsted In order to govern the Group effectively, Non-executive Directors must have a clear understanding of the Groups overall strategy, Mr Malcolm Broomhead Mr Wayne Murdy together with knowledge about the Group and the industries Sir John Buchanan Mr Keith Rumble in which it operates.
Non-executive Directors must be sufficiently Mr Carlos Cordeiro Dr John Schubert familiar with the Groups core business to be effective contributors Mr David Crawford Baroness Shriti Vadera to the development of strategy and to monitor performance.
Mr Pat Davies The Board Governance Document requires that Directors demonstrate The biographical details of the Directors are set out in section 4.1 unquestioned honesty and integrity, preparedness to question, of this Annual Report.
challenge and critique, and a willingness to understand and commit to the highest standards of governance.
Directors must commit to the collective decision-making processes of the Board.
5.5 Chairmans role Individual Directors are required to debate issues openly and The Chairman of the Group is responsible for leading the Board and constructively, and are free to question or challenge the opinions ensuring that it is operating to the highest governance standards.
Directors must also commit to active involvement The Chairman is charged with building an effective, high-performing in Board decisions and the application of strategic thought to and collegial team of Directors and ensuring that they operate matters in issue.
Directors must be clear communicators and effectively as a Board.
good listeners who actively contribute to the Board in a collegial manner.
Each Director must ensure that no decision or action The Chairman, Jac Nasser, is considered by the Board to be is taken that places his or her interests in front of the interests independent.
He was appointed Chairman of the Group from of the business.
31 March 2010 and has been a Non-executive Director of the Group since 6 June 2006.
Mr Nasser was last re-elected at Directors must be prepared to commit sufficient time and resources the 2011 AGMs and, in accordance with the Groups policy to perform the role effectively.
The Nomination Committee takes that each Director stand for election annually, will stand for account of the other positions held by each potential Director re-election in 2012. candidate.
It assesses whether they will have adequate time to devote to the Board, prior to making a recommendation to The Chairmans role includes: the Board on whether to appoint them as a Director.
In addition, ensuring that the principles and processes of the Board Directors are required to consult with the Chairman before are maintained, including the provision of accurate, accepting any additional commitments that could conflict timely and clear information: with or impact on the time Directors can devote to their role.
encouraging debate and constructive criticism: The Nomination Committee is required to assist the Board in ensuring strategic focus is regularly reviewed, clearly ensuring that the Board is comprised of high-calibre individuals understood and underpins the work of the Board: whose background, skills, experience and personal characteristics setting agendas for meetings of the Board, in conjunction will augment the present Board and meet its future needs and with the CEO and Group Company Secretary, that focus diversity aspirations.
on the strategic direction and performance of our business: Current Board profile ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion on all agenda items, including strategic issues: The following table sets out the key skills and experience of the Directors and the extent to which they are represented on the Board leading the Board and individual Director and its committees.
In summary, the Non-executive Directors contribute: performance assessments: international and operational experience: speaking and acting for the Board and representing the understanding of the sectors in which we operate: Board to shareholders: knowledge of world capital markets: presenting shareholders views to the Board: an understanding of the health, safety, environmental facilitating the relationship between the Board and the CEO.
and community challenges that we face.
The Board considers that none of Mr Nassers other commitments set out in section 4.1 of this Annual Report interfere with the The Executive Director brings additional perspectives to the Boards discharge of his responsibilities to the Group.
The Board is satisfied work through a deep understanding of the Groups business.
that he makes sufficient time available to serve the Group effectively.
In addition to the skills and experience set out in the table, the Board considers that each Director has the following attributes: The Group does not have a Deputy Chairman, but has identified John Schubert to act as Chairman should the need arise at unquestioned honesty and integrity: short notice.
a proven track record of creating value for shareholders: time available to undertake the responsibilities: 5.6 Senior Independent Director an ability to apply strategic thought to matters in issue: a preparedness to question, challenge and critique: The Board has appointed John Buchanan as the Senior Independent a willingness to understand and commit to the highest Director of BHP Billiton Plc in accordance with the UK Corporate standards of governance.
Sir John is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed through the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
As Senior Independent Director, he also provides a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for other Directors if necessary.
