11 Shareholder information continued Shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited will receive a copy of the 11.6 Taxation continued Annual Report or the Summary Review if they have requested c South African Taxation a copy.
Shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc will receive the Annual Dividends Report if they have requested a copy.
ADR holders may view As from 1 April 2012, it is possible that US holders of all documents online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com or opt to receive a hard copy by application to Citibank Shareholder Services, BHP Billiton Plc shares or ADS that remain South African residents may be subject to South African withholding tax on any dividends details as listed on the inside back cover of the Annual Report.
received from shares listed on the JSE.
Change of shareholder details and enquiries No South African Dividends Tax is required to be withheld from Shareholders wishing to contact BHP Billiton on any matter dividends provided the dividends are paid to non-South African relating to their shares or ADR holdings are invited to telephone tax resident shareholders or South African tax resident corporate the appropriate office of the BHP Billiton Share Registrar or shareholders including South African pension funds.
These types Transfer Office listed on the inside back cover of the Annual Report.
of shareholders will generally be required to provide declarations Any change in shareholding details should be notified by the to the regulated intermediaries making dividend payments to them shareholder to the relevant Registrar in a timely manner.
to ensure no Dividend Tax is withheld.
Shareholders can also access their current shareholding details However, Dividend Tax is required to be withheld on dividends and change many of those details online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
paid on ordinary shares and ADSs of BHP Billiton Plc listed The website requires shareholders to quote their Shareholder on the JSE, where such dividends are paid to South African tax Reference Number SRN or Holder Identification Number HIN resident shareholders who are natural persons individuals or in order to access this information.
trusts, other than closure rehabilitation trusts.
Except for certain Alternative access to the Annual Report and Summary Review exclusions, generally speaking such dividends paid to South African tax resident natural persons or trusts are not taxable under the We offer an alternative for all shareholders who wish to South African law as the withholding tax is considered a final be advised of the availability of the Annual Report and Summary and non-creditable levy.
Review through our website via an email notification.
By providing Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs an email address through our website, shareholders will be notified by email when the Annual Report and Summary Review have been US holders will not be liable for South African tax on capital gains released.
Shareholders will also receive notification of other major realised on the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs unless: BHP Billiton announcements by email.
Shareholders requiring further such US holders are tax resident in South Africa: information or to make use of this service, should visit our website the shares or ADSs are held in a company, where 80 per cent or w w w. bhpbilliton.
more of the market value of those shares or ADSs is attributable at the time of disposal of those shares or ADSs directly or ADR holders wishing to receive a hard copy of the Annual Report 2012 can do so by accessing citibank.
com or by calling indirectly to immovable property situated in South Africa, held otherwise than as trading stock: or Citibank Shareholder Services during business hours.
ADR holders may also contact the adviser that administers their investments.
the US holders interest the shares or ADSs in BHP Billiton Plc Holders of BHP Billiton Plc shares dematerialised into STRATE is attributable to a permanent establishment which the US holder should liaise directly with their Central Securities Depository has in South Africa.
A US holder who holds ordinary shares or ADSs connected to Key dates for shareholders a permanent establishment in South Africa will recognise a capital gain or loss for South African income tax purposes equal to the The following table sets out future dates in the next financial difference between the Rand value of the amount realised and and calendar year of interest to our shareholders.
If there are the holders tax basis, determined in Rand, in those ordinary shares any changes to these dates, all relevant stock exchanges see or ADSs.
The holders tax basis will generally be equal to the cost section 11.1 will be notified.
that was incurred to acquire the shares, if such shares were acquired Date Event after 1 October 2001.
The capital gain of a non-residents permanent establishment in South Africa will be taxed at an effective rate 28 September 2012 Final Dividend Payment Date of 18.6 per cent.
25 October 2012 BHP Billiton Plc Annual General Meeting in London Securities Transfer Tax Venue: The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre South African Securities Transfer Tax is levied at 0.25 per cent in Broad Sanctuary respect of the transfer of ordinary shares or ADSs.
The tax is levied Westminster on the amount of consideration at which the ordinary share or ADS London SW1P 3EE is transferred or, where no value is declared, the closing price of the UK ordinary shares or ADSs.
The tax is borne by the person to whom Time: 11.00am local time that ordinary share or ADS is transferred.
Details of the business of the meeting are contained in the separate Notice of Meeting 29 November 2012 BHP Billiton Limited Annual General Meeting in Sydney 11.7 Ancillary information for our shareholders Venue: Information for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Sydney Convention Centre shareholders is provided in the BHP Billiton Group Annual Darling Harbour Report 2012 and the Summary Review 2012.
Sydney Australia The Annual Report provides the detailed financial data and Time: 10.30am local time information on the BHP Billiton Groups performance required Details of the business of the meeting are to comply with the reporting regimes in Australia, the United contained in the separate Notice of Meeting Kingdom and the United States.
There are no specific disclosure 20 February 2013 Interim Results Announced requirements for the Summary Review, which is published as a communication for shareholders.
8 March 2013 Interim Dividend Record Date 28 March 2013 Interim Dividend Payment Date 21 August 2013 Annual Results Announced 276 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012
