1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 4.1 Board of Directors continued External and Regulatory Services in the Australian Gas Light Group Company Secretary Company.
Ms McAloon previously held various Australian State Jane McAloon BEc Hons, LLB, GDipGov, 48 and Commonwealth government positions, including Director Term of office: Jane McAloon joined the BHP Billiton Group in General of the NSW Ministry of Energy and Utilities and Deputy September 2006 as Company Secretary for BHP Billiton Limited Director General for the NSW Cabinet Office, as well as working and was appointed Group Company Secretary in July 2007. in private legal practice.
Ms McAloon is a Fellow of the Institute Skills and experience: Prior to joining BHP Billiton, Ms McAloon of Chartered Secretaries and a Member of the Corporations and held the position of Company Secretary and Group Manager Markets Advisory Committee.
4.2 Group Management Committee Marius Kloppers BE Chem, MBA, PhD Materials Science, 50 Alberto Calderon PhD Econ, M Phil Econ, JD Law, BA Econ, 52 Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director Group Executive and Chief Executive Aluminium, Chairman of the Group Management Committee Nickel & Corporate Development Member of the Group Management Committee Marius Kloppers has been active in the mining and resources industry since 1993 and was appointed Chief Executive Officer Alberto Calderon joined BHP Billiton as President Diamonds and in October 2007.
Mr Kloppers was previously Chief Commercial Specialty Products in February 2006 and was appointed Group Officer, Chief Marketing Officer, Group Executive of Billiton Plc, Executive and Chief Commercial Officer in July 2007.
In December Chief Executive of Samancor Manganese and held various 2011, he was appointed to his current position, Group Executive positions at Billiton Aluminium, among them Chief Operating and Chief Executive Aluminium, Nickel & Corporate Development.
Officer and General Manager of Hillside Aluminium.
Prior to joining BHP Billiton, Mr Calderon was Chief Executive Officer of Cerrejn Coal Company and Chief Executive Officer of Colombian oil company, Ecopetrol.
He has held senior roles in investment banking, the Colombian Government and the International Monetary Fund.
Mike Henry BSc Chem, 46 Graham Kerr BBus, FCPA, 41 Group Executive and Chief Marketing Officer Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer Member of the Group Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee and Chairman of the Investment Committee and Financial Risk Management Committee Mike Henry joined the Group in 2003 and was appointed Chief Marketing Officer in November 2011.
Prior to this, he was President Graham Kerr joined the Group in 1994 and was appointed Chief Marketing.
Mr Henrys earlier career with BHP Billiton included Financial Officer in November 2011.
Prior to this, he was President various business development and marketing roles, including of Diamonds and Specialty Products.
Mr Kerr has worked in a wide Marketing Director for Petroleum, Marketing Director for Energy range of finance, treasury and operational roles across the Group, Coal & Freight and Vice President Business Development for the and has held the positions of Chief Financial Officer of Stainless Energy Coal Customer Sector Group.
Prior to joining BHP Billiton, Steel Materials, Vice President Finance BHP Billiton Diamonds Mr Henry worked for Mitsubishi Corporation, where he held and Finance Director for EKATI.
In 2004, Mr Kerr left BHP Billiton a number of commercial roles.
for a two-year period when he was General Manager Commercial for Iluka Resources Ltd. Andrew Mackenzie BSc Geology, PhD Chemistry, 55 Marcus Randolph BSc, MBA, 56 Group Executive and Chief Executive Non-Ferrous Group Executive and Chief Executive Ferrous & Coal Member of the Group Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee Andrew Mackenzie joined BHP Billiton in November 2008 Marcus Randolph was previously Chief Organisation Development in his current position as Chief Executive Non-Ferrous.
Officer, President Diamonds and Specialty Products, Chief Mr Mackenzies prior career included time with Rio Tinto, Development Officer Minerals and Chief Strategic Officer Minerals where he was Chief Executive of Diamonds and Minerals, for BHP Billiton.
Mr Randolphs prior career includes Chief Executive and with BP, where he held a number of senior roles, Officer, First Dynasty Mines, Mining and Minerals Executive, including Group Vice President for Technology and Rio Tinto Plc, Director of Acquisitions and Strategy, Kennecott Inc, Engineering and Group Vice President for Chemicals.
and various mine operating positions in the United States and Mr Mackenzie is a Non-executive Director of Centrica plc.
Peru with Asarco Inc. Mr Randolph has been in his current position as Chief Executive Ferrous & Coal since July 2007.
Karen Wood BEd, LLB Hons, 56 J Michael Yeager BSc, MSc, 59 Group Executive and Chief People & Public Affairs Officer Group Executive and Chief Executive Petroleum Member of the Group Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee Karen Wood joined BHP Billiton in 2001.
Ms Woods previous Mike Yeager joined the Group in April 2006 as Chief Executive positions were Chief Governance Officer, Special Adviser and Petroleum after 25 years with Mobil and later ExxonMobil.
Mr Yeager Head of Group Secretariat and Group Company Secretary.
Ms Wood was previously Vice President, ExxonMobil Development Company, was appointed Chief People Officer in 2007 and in 2010 assumed and held the roles of Senior Vice President, Imperial Oil Ltd and responsibility for Public Affairs.
Before joining BHP Billiton, she was Chief Executive Officer, Imperial Oil Resources, Vice President Africa, General Counsel and Company Secretary for Bonlac Foods Limited.
ExxonMobil Production Company, Vice President Europe, ExxonMobil Ms Wood is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
Production Company and President, Mobil Exploration and Production in the United States.
