2 Information on the Company continued Community development programs 2.8.
9 Ensuring meaningful engagement Our community development programs are focused on improving with our stakeholders continued the quality of life of people in our host communities.
Committed to broad-based community support We require greenfield or significant expansion projects to obtain Each community development project is required to be linked support from stakeholders before proceeding with development.
to a Community Development Management Plan.
In FY2012, Such broad-based community support is distinct from achieving as part of a GMC key performance indicator, all controlled free, prior and informed consent, which we seek when it is operations developed and implemented Community Development mandated and defined by law.
Management Plans in compliance with our Community GLD.
Addressing community concerns Community development projects are selected on the basis of their Our operations are required to have local processes to accept, capacity to have a positive impact on the quality-of-life indicators for the relevant community and enhance the Groups licence to assess and resolve community concerns, complaints and grievances about the performance or behaviour of BHP Billiton and our people.
Projects must have documented objectives specifically linked to the achievement of long-term sustainable community As part of the complaint resolution process, all complaints and grievances are required to be acknowledged, documented and development and improvements in indicators identified in a social baseline study.
We monitor progress by tracking changes investigated internally.
As required, appropriate actions are implemented and complainants are advised of the outcome.
in these indicators every three years.
Prior to approval, community projects are required to be assessed in relation to anti-corruption 2.8.
10 Making a positive contribution to society requirements and are implemented in accordance with the We develop partnerships that promote social and economic BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct.
development and benefit the broader community.
We work with During FY2012, our voluntary community investment totalled host governments and other organisations to create transparency 1 US$214 million, comprising cash, in-kind support and of the broad economic benefits to communities generated from administrative costs and included a US$65 million contribution our operations.
to our UK-based charitable company, BHP Billiton Sustainable Our broad socio-economic contribution Communities.
The cash component of our FY2012 community At a Group level, we are an active participant in industry and investment of US$128.6 million comprises: sustainable development forums, such as the International direct investment in community programs: Council on Mining and Metals ICMM, and we are a member contributions to the Groups charitable foundations, excluding of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities: We seek to understand our socio-economic impact on local the Enterprise Development and socio-economic development communities and host regions through our participation in the components of our broad-based Black Economic Empowerment ICMMs multi-stakeholder Resource Endowment initiative REi.
The REi aims to enhance the mining industrys socio-economic Excluding the contribution to BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities, contribution to the countries and communities where organisations 51 per cent of our expenditure was invested in local communities, like BHP Billiton operate by better understanding the factors that 38 per cent was invested regionally and the remaining 11 per cent either inhibit or promote social and economic development that was invested in national or international programs in countries are linked to large-scale mining projects.
We engage with governments on a range of policy issues, and Supporting employee contributions also play a role in advocating transparent and ethical governance In addition to the social programs directly supported by the Group, through our own actions and in discussion with opinion leaders.
many of our employees make a valuable contribution to their local Economic value for regional economies is generated through revenues, communities by giving their personal time and expertise to a range employee compensation and other operating costs, donations and of activities.
One of the most significant ways we support the efforts other community investments, retained earnings and payments of our employees engaged in community activities is through our to capital providers and to governments.
Nationally and regionally, global Matched Giving Program, whereby the Company matches we contribute taxes and royalties to governments that in turn provide employee volunteering hours, fundraising and donation efforts.
infrastructure and services to their constituents.
Additionally, The program aims to strengthen local communities by supporting we often develop infrastructure that provides local communities and encouraging employees who volunteer, fundraise or donate to and businesses with benefits, such as airports, roads, community not-for-profit organisations.
In FY2012, more than 6,000 employees childcare centres and medical clinics.
participated in the Matched Giving Program, volunteering a total of approximately 60,000 hours of their own time to community Training and employing local people is important to us.
However, activities important to them.
Employee contributions benefited our ability to have a significant impact on unemployment is limited more than 1,400 not-for-profit organisations, which received by the nature of our operations as typically we require highly skilled US$7.7 million from the Group as part of the program.
people with relevant industry and technical experience.
We make a broader economic contribution through indirect employment, where 2.8.
11 Understanding and managing our we focus on building the capacity of local businesses to provide human rights impact us with a diverse range of services and products.
Our approach is We have a responsibility to understand our potential impacts to source locally if a product or service that meets our requirements on human rights and to mitigate or eliminate them.
In FY2012, 45 per cent of our Group spend was with in accordance with the United Nations UN Universal Declaration local and regional suppliers.
Local and regional spend, in this of Human Rights and the UN Global Compact Principles.
Our Charter context, refers to spend within communities in which we operate and Code of Business Conduct and the performance requirements and the regions, such as states and provinces, where our operations detailed in our GLDs support this commitment.
Our human rights due diligence process We also voluntarily invest one per cent of our pre-tax profit, Our human rights due diligence process requires our operations calculated on the average of the previous three years pre-tax profit, to identify and document key potential human rights risks by in community programs that aim to have a long-lasting positive completing a human rights impact assessment HRIA.
HRIAs must impact on peoples quality of life.
This includes implementing new be verified through an engagement process with stakeholders, and supporting existing community projects.
validated by a qualified specialist every three years and internally 1 The expenditure represents BHP Billitons equity share for both operated and non-operated joint venture operations.
