2 Statutory disclosures continued Explanation of share-based payments terms used in the table above The value of STI and Shareplus awards shown in the table includes: the estimated IFRS fair value of Deferred Shares and Options provided under the GIS as described in section 6.6.
The IFRS fair value of the Deferred Shares and Options is estimated at grant date by discounting the total value of the shares that will be issued in the future using the risk-free interest rate for the period to the date of award.
From FY2011, there was a change in accounting policy to account for the DEP from cash-settled to equity-settled.
Participants who were provided with awards under the GIS in previous years are entitled to a DEP payment upon exercise in lieu of the dividends that would have been payable on ordinary BHP Billiton shares over the period from the allocation date to the time they exercise their awards.
Deferred Shares and Options are equity-settled share-based payments.
The actual Deferred Shares and Options will be awarded to participants following the 2012 AGMs awards to the CEO are subject to shareholder approval.
Once awarded, the only vesting condition is for participants to remain in employment for two further years.
Accordingly, the number of securities if any that will ultimately vest cannot be determined until the service period has been completed.
The estimated IFRS fair value of the Deferred Shares and Options forms part of the STI at risk remuneration appearing throughout this Remuneration Report.
The IFRS fair value of Deferred Shares and Options is apportioned to annual remuneration based on the expected future service period, which is normally three years.
The vesting of Deferred Shares and Options may be accelerated in the event of leaving the Group, in which case the expected future service period is amended: the estimated IFRS fair value of rights to Matching Shares acquired during each share purchase period under the Shareplus program, as described in section 6.8.
These rights are acquired on each of the quarterly share purchase dates under the program grant dates, and the IFRS fair value is apportioned to annual remuneration based on the future service period required for the Matching Shares to be allocated i. e. the vesting date of the rights.
Where entitlements to the Matching Shares are accelerated on leaving the Group, the expected future service period is amended.
The value of LTI awards shown in the table includes: Performance Shares allocated under the LTIP as described in section 6.6.
4 are defined as equity-settled share-based payments.
The amount in respect of each LTI award is the estimated IFRS fair value of the Performance Shares as determined by Kepler Associates using a Monte Carlo simulation methodology taking account of the performance hurdle, the term of the award, the share price at grant date, the expected price volatility of the underlying share, the risk-free interest rate for the term of the award and the value of the DEP that will be received on exercise of the award.
The IFRS fair value of each award is apportioned to annual remuneration in equal amounts to each of the years in the expected future service period, which is normally five years.
Where entitlements to Performance Shares are preserved on leaving the Group, the expected future service period is amended.
6.8 Equity awards The following sections set out the interests held by members of the GMC in the Groups equity schemes.
Each vested security can be exercised for one ordinary share in BHP Billiton Limited or in BHP Billiton Plc.
The value of securities over BHP Billiton Limited shares is shown in Australian dollars and of securities over BHP Billiton Plc shares in Sterling.
1 STI awards under the GIS Each Deferred Share and each Option is a conditional right to acquire one ordinary BHP Billiton share upon satisfaction of the vesting conditions.
They will not deliver any value to the holder for at least two years from the end of the financial year unless the executives employment with the Group ends earlier in specific circumstances such as on death, serious injury, disability or illness, retirement and redundancy retrenchment.
Deferred Shares are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends or other shareholder rights.
Dividends are not received by the executives during the vesting period.
However, a DEP as described in section 6.7.
2 is made to cover the period between grant and exercise, but only on Deferred Shares and or Options that have vested.
This payment is not made in relation to any securities that are forfeited during the vesting period.
Deferred Shares that vest may be exercised at no cost to the participant.
Options have an exercise price that reflects the market price of BHP Billiton shares at the time of allocation, and a greater number of Options are therefore allocated if an executive chooses this alternative.
The Securities Dealing GLD governs and restricts dealing arrangements and the vesting and exercise, or delivery, of Deferred Shares and Options.
Awards of Options under the GIS Each employee may nominate to receive GIS awards in the form of Options as shown in this table or in the form of Deferred Shares as shown in the following table or a combination thereof.
Date award may Market Market Market Aggregate Exercise At At vest and price on price on price on gain of Date of price 1 July 30 June becomes date of date of date of shares 1 2 Name grant payable 2011 Granted Vested Lapsed Exercised 2012 exercisable grant vesting exercise exercised Andrew 6 Dec 23.71 30,389 30,389 Aug 2012 24.40 Mackenzie 2010 14 Dec 18.68 16,119 16,119 16,119 25 Aug 2011 19.06 19.60 2009 Total 46,508 16,119 46,508 1 The exercise price is determined by the weighted average price at which BHP Billiton shares were traded over the one week up to and including the date of grant.
This is the amount payable by the individual to exercise each Option and to receive one ordinary BHP Billiton share for each Option exercised.
2 The holding period for each award ends on 30 June in the year the award may vest and become exercisable if the conditions for vesting are met including the relevant service conditions.
Under the GIS rules, awards will vest and become exercisable on, or as soon as practicable after, the first non-prohibited period date occurring after 30 June.
The expiry date of awards is the day prior to the third anniversary of that vesting date.
150 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.8.
1 STI awards under the GIS continued Awards of Deferred Shares under the GIS Each employee may nominate to receive GIS awards in the form of Deferred Shares as shown in this table or in the form of Options as shown in the previous table or a combination thereof.
2 The market price shown for the December 2011 grant is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on 5 December 2011.
No price is payable by the individual for acquiring the Deferred Shares at the time of grant.
The grant date IFRS fair values of the awards are estimated as at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2011 and were A$43.77 and 24.60.
3 All 100 per cent of the Deferred Shares granted under the GIS in December 2009 became fully vested on 25 August 2011 as the service conditions were met as described in section 6.6.
The price shown is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on that date.
4 The market price shown and used for calculating the aggregate gain is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the date that the individual exercised their Deferred Shares.
No price is payable by the individual for exercising the Deferred Shares.
One ordinary BHP Billiton share is acquired for each Deferred Share exercised.
The amounts shown in this column do not include the value of the DEP paid on exercise of the awards as described in section 6.7.
The DEP is included within the value of share-based payment remuneration in that section.
5 As per the rules of the GIS, the awards of 2010 and 2011 Deferred Shares vested when Alex Vanselow retired.
