2 Information on the Company continued Information relating to the material risks for the Group, including 2.8 Sustainability sustainability risks is available in section 1.5 of this Report.
Our risk Our BHP Billiton Charter value of Sustainability reflects our priority management processes are consistent with the hierarchy of controls of putting health and safety first, being environmentally responsible described in Article 6 of International Labour Organization ILO and supporting our communities.
Convention 176 Safety and Health in Mines, 1995.
Our ability to operate globally is heavily dependent on gaining 2.8.
3 Identifying our sustainability issues access to natural resources and maintaining our licence to We identified the sustainability issues included in this Report and operate.
Sustainable development is core to our business strategy: the Sustainability Report 2012 through a three-step materiality we integrate health, safety, environmental, social and economic process.
Step one of the process included identifying issues by factors into our decision-making.
We report the sustainability reviewing our internal risk registers, enquiries from our shareholders dimensions of what we do in detail in the Sustainability Report 2012. and investors, daily print media coverage and an independent The sustainability dimensions that we report on include the health review of issues raised by non-government organisations NGOs and safety of our people: governance and risk management and global electronic and print media.
Step two involved rating the processes: how we are socially responsible and contributing significance of these issues to our stakeholders and the potential to improved standards of living and self-sustaining communities: impact on our business as low, medium or high.
The third step resource conservation and biodiversity: and how we ensure was to review the issues and seek feedback from key stakeholders.
the broader economic contributions of our operations benefit A number of material issues are discussed in the following sections: the regions in which we operate.
Keeping our people safe and healthy The information contained in this section covers assets that Employing and developing our people have been wholly owned and operated by BHP Billiton or which Reducing our climate change impacts have been operated by BHP Billiton in a joint venture operation Managing water controlled assets for FY2012.
In March 2011, we acquired the Managing land and enhancing biodiversity US Fayetteville shale resource from Chesapeake Energy Corporation and subsequently acquired Petrohawk Energy Corporation in Ensuring meaningful engagement with our stakeholders August 2011, which now form our Petroleum Onshore US business.
Making a positive contribution to society Under a transition services agreement, Chesapeake Energy Understanding and managing our human rights impact Corporation continued to operate Fayetteville on our behalf Reporting transparently and behaving ethically.
Accordingly, health, safety, environment and community HSEC data relating to our Onshore US business has 2.8.
4 Keeping our people safe and healthy not been collected in BHP Billiton systems for the FY2012 period The safety and health of our people is core to every aspect of and all information contained in this section excludes data from our business.
Having our people return home safe and well at the our Onshore US business.
end of each day, and enabling them to end their working life fit and healthy is central to everything we do.
This is reflected in the Additional information relating to our sustainability performance processes and controls we have in place throughout our organisation.
for FY2012 is available in the Sustainability Report 2012 and is available online at www.
Our safety and health performance The key safety and health issues that we faced in FY2012 related 2.8.
1 Our sustainability governance structure to adherence to isolation and permit-to-work procedures, and to The Sustainability Committee assists the Board in oversight of reducing potential occupational health exposures, particularly HSEC matters.
This includes overseeing areas relating to HSEC risk, to carcinogens and airborne contaminants, noise-induced hearing compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, loss, musculoskeletal injuries and fatigue.
and overall Group HSEC performance.
The FY2012 total recordable injury frequency TRIF performance More specifically, management is accountable for the of 4.7 per million hours worked improved by six per cent compared implementation of  processes and performance with FY2011 5.0, and while we have not met our TRIF target to comply with our suite of HSEC Group Level Documents GLDs.
of 3.7, it has reduced by 36 per cent since the FY2007 base year.
GLDs contain minimum mandatory performance requirements Although our injury rates and statistical measures showed a steady and performance controls and are the foundation for developing improvement, we still had three fatalities in FY2012.
Each of these and implementing management systems at all our operations.
We reviewed and updated Regular internal audits are conducted to test compliance with our Fatal Risk Controls GLD to provide further clarity about controls the requirements of the HSEC GLDs.
Audit results are used by associated with isolation and permit to work, including expectations management to create action plans where the businesses have around change management and ensuring those involved in the not yet achieved full compliance with the GLD requirements.
work fully understand the hazards and associated controls.
Key findings are reported to senior management, and summary reports are considered by the Sustainability Committee of the In FY2012, the incidence of occupational illness was 43.7 cases Board and, where appropriate, by the Risk and Audit Committee per 10,000 employees, an increase of 7.4 per cent compared 1 of the Board.
with 40.7 cases per 10,000 employees in FY2011.
However, since 2007, we have achieved a 22 per cent reduction in the incidence of 2.8.
2 Assessing risks and establishing controls occupational illness against a target of 30 per cent.
Forty-one per cent We mandate criteria to identify risks we consider material to our of these cases were due to noise-induced hearing loss and 44 per cent business and take into consideration the potential health, safety, due to musculoskeletal illness.
The increased number of cases led environmental, social, reputational, legal and financial impacts.
our operations to increase their focus on control effectiveness for The severity of any particular risk is assessed according to these hazards.
a matrix that describes the degree of harm, injury or loss We focus on improving our workplaces, using the recognised from the most severe impact associated with a specific risk, hierarchy of controls and work practices to minimise the need assuming reasonable effectiveness of controls.
The objectives for personal protective equipment PPE, which we provide of the risk assessment process are to understand the nature to all employees and contractors as required.
and tolerance of the material risks for the Group and ensure they are managed through the verification of critical controls.
1 In FY2012, internal audits identified that some illnesses had not been recorded as required in FY2011.
Consequently, the number of employee illnesses for FY2011 increased and has been adjusted.
Employee data is based on head count as at 30 June 2012.
