11 Shareholder information continued 11.5 American Depositary Receipts fees and charges We have American Depositary Receipts ADR programs for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
Depositary fees Citibank serves as the depositary bank for both of our ADR programs.
ADR holders agree to the terms in the deposit agreement filed with the SEC for depositing ADSs or surrendering shares for cancellation and for certain services as provided by Citibank.
Holders are required to pay all fees for general depositary services provided by Citibank in each of our ADR programs, as set forth in the tables below.
Standard depositary fees: Depositary service Fee payable by the ADR holders Issuance of ADSs upon deposit of Shares Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof issued Delivery of Deposited Securities against surrender of ADSs Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof surrendered Distribution of Cash Distributions No fee Corporate actions depositary fees: Depositary service Fee payable by the ADR holders Cash Distributions i. e. sale of rights, other entitlements, return of capital Up to US$2.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof held Distribution of ADSs pursuant to exercise of rights to purchase additional ADSs.
Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof held Excludes stock dividends and stock splits Distribution of securities other than ADSs or rights to purchase additional ADSs Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof held i. e. spin-off shares Distribution of ADSs pursuant to an ADR ratio change in which shares are not distributed No fee Fees payable by the Depositary to the Issuer iii an estate the income of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its source: or Citibank has provided BHP Billiton net reimbursement of US$1.6 million in FY2012 for ADR program-related expenses iv a trust: for both of BHP Billitons ADR programs FY2011 US$2.0 million.
a if a court within the US is able to exercise primary supervision ADR program-related expenses include legal and accounting over its administration and one or more US persons have the fees, listing fees, expenses related to investor relations in the authority to control all of its substantial decisions: or United States, fees payable to service providers for the distribution b that has made a valid election to be treated as a US person of material to ADR holders, expenses of Citibank as administrator for tax purposes.
of the ADS Direct Plan and expenses to remain in compliance This discussion of material tax consequences for US holders is based with applicable laws.
on the Australian, UK, US and South African laws currently in effect, Citibank has further agreed to waive other ADR program-related the published practice of tax authorities in those jurisdictions and expenses for FY2012 amounting to less than US$0.02 million the double taxation treaties and conventions currently in existence.
which are associated with the administration of the ADR programs These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
US holders in BHP Billiton Limited Our ADR programs trade on the NYSE under the stock tickers a Australian taxation BHP and BBL for the BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc In this section, references to resident and non-resident refer programs respectively.
As of 30 June 2012, there were 102,897,776 to residence status for Australian income tax purposes.
shares outstanding in the BHP Billiton Limited ADR program and 27,817,326 shares outstanding in the BHP Billiton Plc ADR program.
Dividends Both of the ADR programs have a 2:1 ordinary shares to ADR ratio.
Dividends including other distributions treated as dividends for Australian tax purposes paid by BHP Billiton Limited to an Australian resident US holder, or whose holding is effectively 11.6 Taxation connected with: The taxation discussion below describes the material Australian, a permanent establishment in Australia: or UK and US federal income tax consequences to a US holder a fixed base in Australia from which they perform personal services: of owning BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares or ADSs or may be subject to income tax.
BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares or ADSs.
The discussion below also outlines the potential South African tax issues for US holders Under the Tax Convention between Australia and the US as to the Avoidance of Double Taxation the Australian Tax Treaty, dividends of BHP Billiton Plc shares that are listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE.
paid by BHP Billiton Limited to a non-resident US holder who or which is eligible for treaty benefits therein and whose holding: The following discussion is not relevant to non-US holders is not effectively connected with a permanent establishment of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares or ADSs or BHP Billiton Plc in Australia: or ordinary shares or ADSs.
By its nature the commentary below is in the case of a non-resident US holder who performs independent of a general nature and we recommend that holders of ordinary personal services from a fixed base situated therein, is not shares or ADSs consult their own tax advisers regarding the connected with that fixed base: Australian, UK, South African and US federal, state and local tax and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary shares may be subject to Australian withholding tax at a rate not exceeding 15 per cent of such gross dividend.
For such and ADSs in their particular circumstances.
a non-resident: For purposes of this commentary, a US holder is a beneficial owner where fully franked dividends are paid to non-residents they are of ordinary shares or ADSs who is, for US federal income tax purposes: not subject to withholding tax.
The payment of Australian income i a citizen or resident alien of the US: tax by BHP Billiton Limited generates a franking credit for the ii a corporation or other entity treated as a corporation for company.
Broadly, an amount of tax paid by the company flows US federal income tax purposes that is created or organised through to shareholders as a franking credit when the company under the laws of the US or any political subdivision thereof: pays a dividend which is franked by the company.
