2 Information on the Company continued 2.4 Marketing 2.6 Group Resource and Business Optimisation BHP Billitons Marketing network manages the Groups revenue Group Resource and Business Optimisation RBO provides line and is responsible for: governance and technical leadership for resource development and Ore Reserve reporting.
RBOs 66 professionals are focused selling our products and for the purchase of all major raw materials: on ensuring optimal value recovery from our resources.
The team the supply chain for our various products, from assets to market, includes functional experts in mineral resource evaluation, and also for raw materials, from suppliers to our assets: brownfields exploration, planning, research and development, managing credit and price risk associated with the revenue line: work management, production processes, mine engineering achieving market clearing prices for the Groups products: and mineral process engineering.
defining our view of long-term market fundamentals.
RBO engages directly with assets to deliver guidance and assess Our responsibilities require an active presence in the various compliance in resource development and Ore Reserve reporting.
commodities markets and the global freight market.
It provides the Group Management Committee with assurance reports and portfolio analysis.
RBO also provides functional Our marketing activities are centralised in Singapore: Houston, expertise to audits and to investment review programs conducted United States: and Antwerp, Belgium.
Our Aluminium, Energy by other Group Functions.
Coal, Iron Ore, Metallurgical Coal, Manganese, Base Metals, Stainless Steel Materials, Freight and Uranium marketing teams RBOs accountabilities include governance for all resource and are headquartered in Singapore.
Our Petroleum and Diamonds reserve estimation and Ore Reserve reporting.
marketing teams operate from Houston and Antwerp, respectively.
These three marketing offices incorporate all the functions required 2.7 Government regulations to manage product marketing and distribution from the point Government regulations touch all aspects of our operations.
of production to final customer delivery.
In addition, we have marketers located in 12 regional offices around the world.
However, the geographical diversity of our operations reduces the risk that any one set of government regulations would have a We have a centralised ocean freight business that manages our material effect on our business, taken as a whole.
The primary purpose of the freight business is to create a competitive advantage for our shipments The ability to extract minerals, oil and natural gas is fundamental to our business.
In most jurisdictions, the rights to undeveloped through the procurement and operation of quality, cost-effective shipping.
From time to time, we carry complementary cargoes mineral or petroleum deposits are owned by the state.
Accordingly, we rely upon the rights granted to us by the government that owns for external parties to optimise profitability.
the mineral, oil or natural gas.
These rights usually take the form of a lease or licence, which gives us the right to access the land 2.5 Minerals exploration and extract the product.
The terms of the lease or licence, including the time period for which it is effective, are specific to the laws Our minerals exploration program is integral to our growth strategy of the relevant government.
Generally, we own the product we and is focused on discovering and acquiring operating interests extract and royalties or similar taxes are payable to the government.
in mineral deposits with the potential to support large, long-life, Some of our operations, such as our oil and gas operations in Trinidad low-cost, expandable upstream assets, diversified by commodity, and Tobago and Algeria, are subject to production sharing contracts geography and market.
under which both we, as the contractor, and the government are Our greenfield exploration targets, focused on copper, nickel, entitled to a share of the production.
Under such production sharing iron ore and potash, are organised from our three principal offices contracts, the contractor is entitled to recover its exploration and in Santiago, Chile: Perth, Australia: and Singapore.
Our exploration production costs from the governments share of production.
activities include opportunity identification, application for Related to the ability to extract is the ability to process the minerals, and acquisition of mineral title, early reconnaissance operations oil or natural gas.
Again, we rely upon the relevant government and multi-million dollar delineation drilling programs.
to grant the rights necessary to transport and treat the extracted In addition to our activities focused on finding new world-class material in order to ready it for sale.
deposits, several of our CSGs undertake brownfield exploration, Underlying our business of extracting and processing natural principally aimed at delineating and categorising mineral deposits resources is the ability to explore for those orebodies.
Typically, the near existing operations, and advancing projects through the rights to explore for minerals, oil and natural gas are granted to us development pipeline.
by the government that owns those natural resources that we wish Our expenditure on minerals exploration over the last three years to explore.
Usually, the right to explore carries with it the obligation is as follows.
to spend a defined amount of money on the exploration or to undertake particular exploration activities.
Year ended 30 June 2012 2011 2010 US$M US$M US$M Governments also impose obligations on us in respect of environmental protection, land rehabilitation, occupational health Greenfield exploration 324 207 126 and safety, and native land title with which we must comply in order Brownfield exploration 773 476 390 to continue to enjoy the right to conduct our operations within that Total minerals exploration 1,097 683 516 jurisdiction.
These obligations often require us to make substantial expenditures to minimise or remediate the environmental impact of our operations, to ensure the safety of our employees and contractors and the like.
For further information on these types of obligations, refer to section 2.8 of this Report.
Of particular note are the following regulatory regimes: 44 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012
