Performance Achieving superior business results by stretching our capabilities.
Our strategy to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets diversified by commodity, geography and market remains a major point of differentiation, particularly in the current, more challenging economic environment.
Disciplined investment throughout the economic cycle has established strong momentum in our major businesses, demonstrated by a twelfth consecutive annual production record at Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO and record annual production at another nine operations.
Weakness in commodity markets and industry-wide cost pressure resulted in a 15 per cent decline in Underlying EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes and a 21 per cent fall in Attributable profit excluding exceptional items in FY2012.
Net operating cash flow of US$24.4 billion declined by 19 per cent, while Underlying return on capital was 23 per cent.
The value of the Companys diversified strategy was reflected in the Groups Underlying EBIT margin, which remained at a robust 39 per cent.
The Group has been quick to respond to the change in the operating environment and has acted decisively by closing energy intensive silicomanganese alloy production capacity in South Africa and by temporarily closing capacity at TEMCO, Australia.
In addition, metallurgical coal production at Norwich Park, Australia, was suspended following a review of the mines profitability.
The viability of other high-cost operations is being assessed and additional measures are being implemented that will substantially reduce operating costs and non-essential expenditure across the business.
On 7 September 2012, we announced the sale of our 37.8 per cent non-operated interest in Richards Bay Minerals, in South Africa, to Rio Tinto was complete.
The review of our diamonds business is ongoing.
Petroleum The successful integration and further development of our Onshore US shale liquids and gas assets J Michael Yeager contributed to a 40 per cent increase in Petroleum Chief Executive, Petroleum production to 222 million barrels of oil equivalent.
US$ million Underlying EBIT for FY2012 was unchanged from the prior period at US$6.3 billion.
This strong financial performance was achieved Revenue 12,937 despite natural field decline at Pyrenees and the substantial Underlying EBIT 6,348 deferral of high-margin production in the Gulf of Mexico and Capital expenditure 5,830 Net operating assets 32,698 the North West Shelf.
We achieved success in our conventional exploration program in FY2012 as seven of 12 wells encountered hydrocarbons.
Capital expenditure across both our conventional and unconventional businesses totalled US$5.8 billion in FY2012.
Production increase of 40 per cent Exploration and development expenditure specifically within our Onshore US business totalled US$3.7 billion and is expected to rise to US$4.0 billion in FY2013.
Over 80 per cent of the activity in our Onshore US business will be focused on the liquids-rich Eagle Ford shale and the Permian Basin.
Petroleum production is forecast to increase to approximately 240 million barrels of oil equivalent in FY2013, despite the deferral of Onshore US natural gas drilling.
This includes a 15 per cent rise in valuable liquids production, which will be underpinned by the recommencement of operations at Mad Dog and Atlantis, and an increase in activity in our liquids-rich Onshore US acreage.
