7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 8 Legal proceedings We are involved from time to time in legal proceedings and seeks unquantified sanctions, including payment of stamp taxes, governmental investigations of a character normally incidental an award of 15 per cent of all monies recovered by the defendants, to our business, including claims and pending actions against together with interest on all amounts at the maximum rate us seeking damages or clarification of legal rights and regulatory authorised by law.
In many cases, insurance The CZN action was dismissed on 18 February 2011, the Court or other indemnification protection afforded to us relates to determining that there were no irregularities in the privatisation such claims and may offset the financial impact on the Group of the Cerrejn Zona Norte mining complex.
CCTs request for a reconsideration of the judgment was denied.
This section summarises the significant legal proceedings On 15 March 2011 CCT filed an appeal against the dismissal.
and investigations in which we are currently involved.
A separate class action arising out of the privatisation of the Rio Algom Pension Plan Cerrejn Zona Norte mining complex has been brought by Mr Martn In June 2003, Alexander E. Lomas, a retired member of the Nicols Barros Choles, against various defendants including CDC.
Pension Plan for Salaried Employees of Rio Algom Mines Limited Mr Choles claims that the transfer of rights by CDC to CZN was Plan, filed a Notice of Application in a representative capacity ineffective because it only involved a transfer of shares and not in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice Commercial List against the transfer of the underlying rights in the properties and assets Rio Algom Limited RAL and the Plan Trustee alleging certain used in the Cerrejn Zona Norte mining complex.
Consequently, improprieties in their administration of the Pension Plan and he is seeking orders that CDC pays for the use and lease of the use of Pension Plan funds from January 1966 onward.
properties and assets until November 2009, and that from that Mr Lomas seeks relief, both quantified and unquantified, date the properties and assets of the Cerrejn project revert for himself and those Plan members he purports to represent to the State.
in respect of a number of alleged breaches committed by RAL, Petroleum Resource Rent Tax litigation including allegations of breach of employment contracts, BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait Pty Ltd was involved in litigation breach of trust, and breach of the Trust Agreement underlying in the Federal Court of Australia.
The dispute related to whether the Pension Plan.
In particular: certain receipts are subject to Petroleum Resource Rent Tax, as Mr Lomas seeks US$117.7 million C$121.6 million on account well as the Australian Tax Offices ATOs assessment of the taxing of monies alleged to have been improperly paid out or withheld point for Petroleum Resource Rent Tax purposes in relation to sales from the Pension Plan, together with compound interest of gas and Liquefied Petroleum Gas produced from the Gippsland calculated from the date of each alleged wrongdoing: and Joint Venture, and the treatment of gas used for electricity generation.
punitive, aggravated and exemplary damages in the sum The Federal Courts decision was handed down in April 2011, finding of US$1.9 million C$1.9 million.
in favour of the Commissioner in respect of one of the receipts and Mr Lomas purports to represent members of the defined benefits the taxing point issues.
BHP Billiton was successful on other receipts portion of the Pension Plan.
In 2005, the defined contribution issues and the gas used in electricity generation issue.
members of the Pension Plan were included as parties to Except for the gas used in electricity generation issue that this action.
BHP Billiton was successful on in the Federal Court, both A motion to strike Mr Lomas request for the winding-up of parties appealed the findings on which they were unsuccessful the Plan was heard on 27 November 2006.
The court struck out to the Full Federal Court.
part of Mr Lomas claim, but allowed the remainder to proceed.
The Full Federal Court largely upheld the decision of the RALs appeal from that decision was dismissed, but further leave Federal Court, but found in favour of BHP Billiton on one to appeal to the Ontario Court of Appeal was granted.
On 10 March other receipts issue.
2010, the Ontario Court of Appeal ruled in favour of RALs motion to strike out that part of the plaintiffs claim that sought a court Petroleum Resource Rent Tax was paid and expensed based on the order to wind up the Plan.
An income tax expense benefit of approximately US$80 million was recognised in the FY2012 financial statements RAL has notified its insurers of the application and has advised as a result of the decision.
other third parties of possible claims against them in respect of matters alleged in the application.
The Australian Government amended the tax law, with effect from 1 July 1990, to provide greater certainty around how the taxing point Class actions concerning Cerrejn privatisation is calculated for the purposes of the Petroleum Resource Rent Tax.
The non-government organisation, Corporacin Colombia The amendments provided further statutory support for the Federal Transparente CCT, brought three separate class actions Courts judgement in relation to the taxing point.
Popular Actions 1,029, 1,032 and 1,048 against various North West Shelf Excise on Condensate litigation defendants in connection with the privatisation of 50 per cent of the Cerrejn Zona Norte mining complex in Colombia in 2002.
BHP Billiton Petroleum North West Shelf Pty Ltd was Two of the actions were dismissed leaving only the action against involved in litigation in both the Federal Court of Australia and Cerrejn Zona Norte SA CZN.
The mining complex is currently the Administrative Appeals Tribunal seeking orders that excise owned by CZN and Carbones del Cerrejn Limited CDC.
by-laws, enacted in 2008, prescribing a condensate production Our subsidiary Billiton Investment 3 BV owns a 33 per cent area for the purposes of the Excise Tariff Act incorrectly defined share in CDC, and our subsidiaries Billiton Investment 3 BV the relevant fields.
and Billiton Investment 8 BV BHP Billiton Shareholders As part of the May 2011 Federal Budget, the Australian collectively own a 33.33 per cent share in CZN.
Government announced that it would make several technical CCT alleges, in part, that the defendants failed to comply with legislative amendments, with effect from 13 May 2008, to the privatisation process, and that the offer price for shares ensure that condensate production is subject to crude oil excise in CZN between Stages 1 and 2 of the privatisation process as announced in the 200809 Federal Budget.
The amendments was not correctly adjusted for inflation.
included changes to the Excise Tariff Act to introduce a statutory definition of the production area Rankin Trend, and to ensure Our share of the alleged adjustment of the CZN share price that production from Rankin Trend does not represent exempt would be approximately US$4.7 million.
In the alternative, offshore oil and condensate.
CCT seeks declaration that the privatisation is null and void and forfeiture of the transfer price paid, of which our share would As a result of this amending legislation being enacted, the matter be approximately US$156.7 million.
In both instances, CCT also has been discontinued.
