1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 1.4.
2 Operational information Our Board and Group Management Committee GMC monitor a range of financial and operational performance indicators, reported on a monthly basis, to measure performance over time.
We also monitor a comprehensive set of health, safety, environment and community HSEC contribution indicators.
2012 2011 2010 Health, safety, environment and community Total recordable injury frequency TRIF 4.7 5.0 5.3 Community investment US$M 214.1 195.5 200.5 a Production Total Petroleum production million barrels of oil equivalent 222.3 159.4 158.6 Alumina 000 tonnes 4,152 4,010 3,841 Aluminium 000 tonnes 1,153 1,246 1,241 Copper cathode and concentrate 000 tonnes 1,094.5 1,139.4 1,075.2 Nickel 000 tonnes 157.9 152.7 176.2 Iron ore 000 tonnes 159,478 134,406 124,962 Manganese alloys 000 tonnes 602 753 583 Manganese ores 000 tonnes 7,931 7,093 6,124 Metallurgical coal 000 tonnes 33,230 32,678 37,381 Energy coal 000 tonnes 71,111 69,500 66,131 a Further details appear in section 2.3 of this Report.
are the most important currencies influencing our operating costs.
1.5 Our risks The appreciation in recent years of currencies in which the majority 1.5.
1 Risk factors of our operating costs are incurred, in particular the Australian dollar, if sustained relative to US dollar denominated commodity We believe that, because of the international scope of our operations and the industries in which we are engaged, there prices, has and may continue to adversely impact our profit margins.
Given the dominant role of the US currency in our are numerous factors which may have an effect on our results and operations.
The following describes the material risks that affairs, the US dollar is the currency in which we present financial performance.
It is also the natural currency for borrowing and could affect the BHP Billiton Group.
We do not generally believe that active External risks currency hedging provides long-term benefits to our shareholders.
Fluctuations in commodity prices and impacts of ongoing From time to time, we consider currency protection measures global economic volatility may negatively affect our results appropriate in specific commercial circumstances, subject to strict The prices we obtain for our oil, gas, minerals and other commodities limits established by our Board.
Therefore, in any particular year, are determined by, or linked to, prices in world markets, which have our financial results may be negatively affected by currency historically been subject to substantial volatility.
Our usual policy exchange rate fluctuations.
is to sell our products at the prevailing market prices.
The diversity Reduction in Chinese demand may negatively impact our results provided by our broad portfolio of commodities does not fully The Chinese market has become a significant source of global demand insulate the effects of price changes.
Fluctuations in commodity for commodities.
In CY2011, China represented 61 per cent of global prices can occur due to sustained price shifts reflecting underlying seaborne iron ore demand, 39 per cent of copper demand, 40 per cent global economic and geopolitical factors, industry demand and supply of nickel demand, 43 per cent of aluminium demand, 48 per cent of balances, product substitution and national tariffs.
The ongoing energy coal demand and 10 per cent of oil demand.
Chinas demand global economic volatility following the global financial and European for these commodities has been driving global materials demand sovereign debt crises has negatively affected commodity market and price increases over the past decade.
Sales into China generated prices and demand.
Sales into European countries generated US$21.6 billion FY2011: US$20.3 billion, or 29.9 per cent FY2011: US$8.4 billion FY2011: US$9.4 billion, or 11.6 per cent FY2011: 28.2 per cent, of our revenue in the year ended 30 June 2012.
13.1 per cent, of our revenue in the year ended 30 June 2012.
A slowing in Chinas economic growth could result in lower prices The ongoing uncertainty and impact on global economic growth, and demand for our products and negatively impact our results.
particularly in the developed economies, may adversely affect future demand and prices for commodities.
The impact of potential In response to its increased demand for commodities, China is longer-term sustained price shifts and shorter-term price volatility increasingly seeking strategic self-sufficiency in key commodities, creates the risk that our financial and operating results and asset including investments in existing businesses or new developments values will be materially and adversely affected by unforeseen in other countries.
These investments may adversely impact future declines in the prevailing prices of our products.
commodity demand and supply balances and prices.
Our financial results may be negatively affected by currency Actions by governments or political events in the countries in exchange rate fluctuations which we operate could have a negative impact on our business Our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide We have operations in many countries around the globe, which have variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the countries varying degrees of political and commercial stability.
We operate in which we operate.
Fluctuations in the exchange rates of those in emerging markets, which may involve additional risks that could currencies may have a significant impact on our financial results.
have an adverse impact upon the profitability of an operation.
The US dollar is the currency in which the majority of our sales These risks could include terrorism, civil unrest, nationalisation, are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the currencies renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts, leases, permits of those countries where our mines and processing plants are or other agreements, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital located and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported and changes in laws and policy, as well as other unforeseeable risks.
equipment and services are determined.
The Australian dollar, Risks relating to bribery and corruption, including possible delays South African rand, Chilean peso, Brazilian real and US dollar or disruption resulting from a refusal to make so-called facilitation BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 7 1 Key information continued Our Cerro Matoso Operation in Colombia operates under mining 1.5.
1 Risk factors continued concessions that are due to expire on 30 September 2012 and we payments, may be prevalent in some of the countries in which we have applied, in accordance with the law and its contracts, for an operate.
If any of our major projects are affected by one or more extension of these mining concessions.
If this extension is not of these risks, it could have a negative effect on the operations granted, Cerro Matoso has an underlying agreement with the in those countries, as well as the Groups overall operating results Colombian Government that grants it rights to continue mining and financial condition.
and producing through to 2029 under a lease arrangement, with Our operations are based on material long-term investments that a further extension of 15 years possible.
While our operating rights anticipate long-term fiscal stability.
Following the global financial are maintained, there is no established precedent in Colombia and European sovereign debt crises, some governments face for bringing a reversion of title under contract and therefore the increased debt and funding obligations and have sought additional situation remains uncertain.
sources of revenue and economic rent by increasing rates of These regulations are complex, difficult to predict and outside taxation, royalties or resource rent taxes such as the Minerals of our control and could negatively affect our business and results.
Resource Rent Tax MRRT and Petroleum Resource Rent Tax PRRT extension in Australia.
These may continue to levels that are globally Business risks uncompetitive to the resource industry.
Such taxes may negatively Failure to discover new reserves, maintain or enhance existing impact the financial results of existing businesses and reduce reserves or develop new operations could negatively affect the anticipated future returns and overall level of prospective our future results and financial condition investment in those countries.
The demand for our products and production from our operations The Australian Government through the Business Tax Working results in existing reserves being depleted over time.
As our revenues Group is considering measures to reform tax law to provide and profits are derived from our oil and gas and minerals operations, relief for certain industry sectors.
The basis of any law change our results and financial condition are directly related to the success is a revenue neutral outcome and as such, it is possible the of our exploration and acquisition efforts, and our ability to replace mining and petroleum industries may be negatively impacted existing reserves.
Exploration activity occurs adjacent to established by disproportionately funding any measures that may eventually operations and in new regions, in developed and less developed become law.
The Business Tax Working Group will make its countries.
These activities may increase land tenure, infrastructure recommendations to the Australian government by the end and related political risks.
A failure in our ability to discover new of CY2012, with any potential law change happening thereafter.
reserves, enhance existing reserves or develop new operations in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow the current level of Our business could be adversely affected by new government our reserves could negatively affect our results, financial condition regulations, such as controls on imports, exports and prices.
Increasing requirements relating to regulatory, environmental and social approvals can potentially result in significant delays Future deterioration in commodities pricing may make drilling in construction and may adversely affect the economics of some acreage and existing reserves uneconomic.
Our actual drilling new mining and oil and gas projects, the expansion of existing activities and future drilling budget will depend on drilling results, operations and results of our operations.
commodity prices, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, lease expirations, gathering system pipeline We have oil and gas operations located in the Gulf of Mexico transportation and other infrastructure constraints, regulatory region of the United States.
In October 2010, the United States approvals and other factors.
Government lifted the deepwater drilling moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico initially put in place in May 2010 in response to the oil There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore spill from BPs Macondo well.
Although the moratorium was lifted, and oil and gas reserves, and geological, technical and economic and BHP Billiton was among the first to return to drilling in the assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may Gulf of Mexico, the industry now faces more stringent permitting change significantly when new information becomes available.
Delays or additional costs may occur in receiving The uncertain global financial outlook may affect economic future permits for deepwater drilling activities in the Gulf of Mexico.
assumptions related to reserve recovery and require reserve restatements.
Reserve restatements could negatively affect Infrastructure, such as rail, ports, power and water, is critical to our our results and prospects.
We have operations or potential development projects in countries where government provided infrastructure or We may not be able to successfully complete acquisitions regulatory regimes for access to infrastructure, including our own or integrate our acquired businesses privately operated infrastructure, may be inadequate or uncertain.
We have grown our business in part through acquisitions.
These may adversely impact the efficient operations and expansion We expect that some of our future growth will stem from acquisitions.
On 30 June 2010, the Australian Competition There are numerous risks encountered in business combinations.
Tribunal granted declaration of BHP Billitons Goldsworthy rail line, These include adverse regulatory conditions and obligations, but rejected the application for declaration of our Newman rail line commercial objectives not achieved due to minority interests, under Part IIIA of the Trade Practices Act.
Following the Tribunals unforeseen liabilities arising from the acquired businesses, retention decision, access seekers may now negotiate for access to the of key staff, sales revenues and operational performance not Goldsworthy railway.
These negotiations, and the availability meeting our expectations, anticipated synergies and cost savings and terms of access, are governed by the Part IIIA statutory being delayed or not being achieved, uncertainty in sales proceeds framework, and either the access seeker or BHP Billiton can refer from planned divestments, and planned acquisition projects being disputed matters to the Australian Competition and Consumer cancelled, delayed or costing more than anticipated.
These factors Commission for arbitration.
The outcome of this process will govern could negatively affect our future results and financial condition.
whether access will be provided and on what terms.
We may not be able to attract and retain the necessary people We operate in several countries where ownership of land is Our existing operations and especially our pipeline of development uncertain and where disputes may arise in relation to ownership.
projects in regions of numerous large projects, such as Western In Australia, the Native Title Act 1993 provides for the Australia, Queensland and the United States, if activated, require establishment and recognition of native title under certain many highly skilled staff with relevant industry and technical circumstances.
In South Africa, the Extension of Security of Tenure experience.
In the competitive labour markets that exist in these Act 1997 and the Restitution of Land Rights Act 1994 provide regions, the inability of the Group to attract and retain such people for various landholding rights.
Such legislation could negatively may adversely impact our ability to complete projects under affect new or existing projects.
8 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Operational risks 1.5.
1 Risk factors continued Operating cost pressures, reduced productivity and labour development on time and budget or successfully respond to new development opportunities.
The lack of shortand long-term suitable shortages could negatively impact our operating margins and expansion plans accommodation in regional centres and townships adjacent to development projects and community reactions to development Increasing cost pressures and shortages in skilled personnel, and potential workforce fly in, fly out arrangements may impact contractors, materials and supplies that are required as critical costs and the ability to optimise construction and operating inputs to our existing operations and planned developments have workforces.
Skills shortages in engineering, technical service, occurred and may continue to occur across the resources industry.
construction and maintenance may adversely impact the cost As the prices for our products are determined by the global and schedule of current development projects, the cost and commodity markets in which we operate, we do not generally efficiency of existing operations and our ability to execute have the ability to offset these operating cost increases through on development opportunities.
corresponding price increases, which can adversely affect our operating margins.
Notwithstanding our efforts to reduce costs Increased costs and schedule delays may adversely affect and a number of key cost inputs being commodity price-linked, our development projects the inability to reduce costs and a timing lag may adversely impact Although we devote significant time and resources to our project our operating margins for an extended period.
planning, approval and review process, and have established a Our Australian-based operations may continue to be affected number of project hubs to provide continuity to capital programs, we may underestimate the cost or time required to complete by the Australian Fair Work Act 2009 as labour agreements expire and businesses are required to negotiate labour agreements with a project.
In addition, we may fail to manage projects as effectively as we anticipate and unforeseen challenges may emerge.
In some instances labour unions are pursuing claims in the bargaining process about union access and involvement in some Any of these may result in increased capital costs and schedule areas of operational decision-making.
These claims may adversely delays at our development projects, adversely affecting our affect workplace flexibility, productivity and costs.
Industrial action development projects and impacting anticipated financial returns.
in pursuit of claims associated with the bargaining process Financial risks has occurred in some businesses, in particular our BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance coal operation in Queensland, Australia, If our liquidity and cash flow deteriorate significantly it could and is likely to continue to occur as unions press for new claims adversely affect our ability to fund our major capital programs as part of the negotiation process.
We seek to maintain a solid A credit rating as part of our strategy: however, fluctuations in commodity prices and the ongoing global A number of our operations, such as aluminium and copper, are economic volatility, and European sovereign debt crises, may energy or water intensive and, as a result, the Groups costs and continue to adversely impact our future cash flows and ability earnings could be adversely affected by rising costs or by supply to access capital from financial markets at acceptable pricing.
These could include the unavailability of energy, Despite our portfolio risk management strategies and monitoring fuel or water due to a variety of reasons, including fluctuations of cash flow volatility, if our key financial ratios and credit rating in climate, significant increases in costs, inadequate infrastructure were not maintained, our liquidity and cash reserves, interest rate capacity, interruptions in supply due to equipment failure or costs on borrowed debt, future access to financial capital markets other causes and the inability to extend supply contracts on and the ability to fund current and future major capital programs economical terms.
These factors could lead to increased operating costs at existing We may not recover our investments in mining and oil operations and could negatively impact our operating margins and gas projects and expansion plans.
Our strategy is to maintain an asset portfolio diversified Unexpected natural and operational catastrophes may by commodity, geography and market.
Despite the benefits adversely impact our operations arising from this diversification, one or more of our assets may We operate extractive, processing and logistical operations in many be impacted by changed market or industry structures, commodity geographic locations both onshore and offshore.
Our operational prices, technical operating difficulties, inability to recover our processes may be subject to operational accidents such as port mineral, oil or gas reserves and increased operating cost levels.
and shipping incidents, underground mine and processing plant These may cause us to fail to recover all or a portion of our fire and explosion, open-cut pit wall failures, loss of power supply, investment in mining and oil and gas projects and may require railroad incidents, loss of well control, environmental pollution financial write-downs adversely impacting our financial results.
and mechanical critical equipment failures.
Our key port facilities The commercial counterparties we transact with may not are located at Port Hedland and Hay Point in Australia.
We have meet their obligations which may negatively impact our results 13 underground mines, including seven underground coal mines.
We contract with a large number of commercial and financial Our operations may also be subject to unexpected natural counterparties, including customers, suppliers and financial catastrophes such as earthquakes, flood, hurricanes and tsunamis.
The ongoing global economic volatility and European Our Western Australia Iron Ore, Queensland coal and Gulf of Mexico sovereign debt crises have placed strains on global financial oil and gas operations are located in areas subject to cyclones or markets, reduced liquidity and adversely affected business hurricanes.
Our Chilean copper operations are located in a known conditions generally.
We maintain a one book approach with earthquake and tsunami zone.
Based on our claims, insurance commercial counterparties to ensure that all credit exposures premiums and loss experience, our risk management approach is are quantified.
Our existing counterparty credit controls may not not to purchase insurance for property damage, business interruption prevent a material loss due to credit exposure to a major customer and construction related risk exposures.
Existing business continuity or financial counterparty.
In addition, customers, suppliers, plans may not provide protection for all of the costs that arise from contractors or joint venture partners may fail to perform against such events.
The impact of these events could lead to disruptions in existing contracts and obligations.
Non-supply of key inputs, such production, increased costs and loss of facilities more than offsetting as tyres, mining and mobile equipment and other key consumables, premiums saved, which would adversely affect our financial results may unfavourably impact costs and production at our operations.
Third party claims arising from these events may These factors could negatively affect our financial condition and exceed the limit of liability insurance policies we have in place.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 9 1 Key information continued We contribute to the communities in which we operate by 1.5.
1 Risk factors continued providing skilled employment opportunities, salaries and wages, Our non-controlled assets may not comply with our standards taxes and royalties and community development programs, including Some of our assets are controlled and managed by joint venture a commitment to one per cent of pre-tax profits invested in community partners or by other companies.
Management of our non-controlled programs.
Notwithstanding these actions, local communities may assets may not comply with our management and operating become dissatisfied with the impact of our operations or oppose our standards, controls and procedures including our HSEC standards.
new development projects, including through litigation, potentially Failure to adopt equivalent standards, controls and procedures affecting costs and production, and in extreme cases viability.
at these assets could lead to higher costs and reduced production Community related risks may include community protests or civil and adversely impact our results and reputation.
unrest, delays to proposed developments and inadvertent breaches Breaches in our information technology security processes of human rights or other international laws or conventions.
may adversely impact the conduct of our business activities Health risks faced include fatigue and occupational exposure We maintain global information technology IT and communication to noise, silica, manganese, diesel exhaust particulate, fluorides, networks and applications to support our business activities.
coal tar pitch, nickel and sulphuric acid mist.
Longer-term health Our extensive IT infrastructure and network may experience service impacts may arise due to unanticipated workplace exposures outages that may adversely impact the conduct of our business or historical exposures to hazardous substances by employees activities.
IT security processes protecting these systems are in place or site contractors.
These effects may create future financial and subject to regular monitoring and assessment, and are included compensation obligations.
as part of the review of internal control over financial reporting.
These security processes may not prevent future malicious action We invest in workplace and community health programs, where indicated by risk assessment.
However, infectious diseases such or fraud by individuals, groups or organisations resulting in the corruption of operating systems, theft of commercially sensitive as HIV and malaria may have a material adverse impact upon our workers or on our communities, primarily in Africa.
Because data, including commercial price outlooks, mergers and acquisitions and divestment transactions, misappropriation of funds and we operate globally, we may be affected by potential pandemic influenza outbreaks, such as A H1N1 and avian flu, in any of the disruptions to our business operations.
regions in which we operate.
Sustainability risks Legislation requiring manufacturers, importers and downstream HSEC impacts, incidents or accidents and related regulations users of chemical substances, including metals and minerals, may adversely affect our people, operations and reputation to establish that the substances can be used without negatively or licence to operate affecting health or the environment may impact our operations We are a major producer of carbon-related products such as energy and markets.
These potential compliance costs, litigation expenses, and metallurgical coal, oil, gas, and liquefied natural gas.
Our oil regulatory delays, rehabilitation expenses and operational costs and gas operations are both onshore and offshore.
could negatively affect our financial results.
The nature of the industries in which we operate means that During FY2011, BHP Billiton acquired Chesapeake Energy Corporations many of our activities are highly regulated by health, safety and interests in the Fayetteville Operation in the United States, and in environmental laws.
As regulatory standards and expectations August 2011, acquired Petrohawk Energy Corporation, a US shale are constantly developing, we may be exposed to increased development company.
Both businesses include operations that litigation, compliance costs and unforeseen environmental involve hydraulic fracturing, an essential and common practice rehabilitation expenses.
in the oil and gas industry to stimulate production of natural gas Potential safety events that may have a material adverse impact and oil from dense subsurface rock formations.
Hydraulic fracturing on our operations include fire, explosion or rock fall incidents in involves using water, sand and a small amount of chemicals to underground mining operations, personnel conveyance equipment fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation to allow flow failures in underground operations, aircraft incidents, incidents of hydrocarbons into the wellbore.
We routinely apply hydraulic involving light vehicles and mining mobile equipment, ground fracturing techniques in our drilling and completion programs.
control failures, well blowouts, explosions or gas leaks, isolation, Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing working from heights or lifting operations.
process could lead to greater opposition to oil and gas production Environmental incidents that have the potential to create a material activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques, including regulations impact include uncontrolled tailings breaches, subsidence from that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure and mining activities, escape of polluting substances and uncontrolled well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations.
Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil and Our operations by their nature have the potential to impact natural gas, including from the developing shale plays, or could biodiversity, water resources and related ecosystem services.
make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing.
The adoption Changes in scientific understanding of these impacts, regulatory of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of requirements or stakeholder expectations may prevent or delay regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause project approvals and result in increased costs for mitigation, a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells, increased offsets or compensatory actions.
compliance costs and time, and potential class action claims, We provide for operational closure and site rehabilitation.
all of which could adversely affect our business.
Our operating and closed facilities are required to have closure Due to the nature of our operations HSEC incidents or accidents plans.
Changes in regulatory or community expectations may and related regulations may adversely affect our reputation result in the relevant plans not being adequate.
This may impact or licence to operate.
financial provisioning and costs at the affected operations.
