2 Information on the Company continued Information on Aluminium smelters and refineries continued Smelter, Refinery Title, Leases Nominal Production or Processing Plant Location Ownership Operator or Options Product Capacity Power Source Aluminium and alumina continued Mozal Aluminium smelter 17 km from BHP Billiton 47.1% BHP Billiton 50-year Standard 563 ktpa Motraco Maputo, government aluminium ingots Mitsubishi 25% Mozambique concession Industrial to use the land Development Corporation Renewable of South Africa for 50 years Ltd 24% Mozambique Government 3.9% Worsley Alumina refinery 55 km BHP Billiton 86% BHP Billiton 2,480 ha refinery Metallurgical 4.6 mtpa JV owned on-site northeast Worsley lease from grade alumina coal power station, Sojitz Alumina 4% of Bunbury, Alumina Western Australian third party on-site Japan Alumina Western Pty Ltd Government gas-fired steam power Associates 10% Australia Expires 2025 generation plant Ownership structure 21-year renewal of operator as available per Worsley JV Alumar Alumina refinery and So Luis, Aluminium smelter: Alcoa All assets Alumina and Refinery: Electronorte Brazilian aluminium smelter Maranho, BHP Billiton 40% operates held freehold aluminium ingots 3.5 mtpa alumina public power generation Brazil Alcoa 60% both facilities concessionaire, Smelter: 20-year contract Alumina refinery: 450 ktpa primary BHP Billiton 36% aluminium Alcoa & affiliates 54% Rio Tinto 10% We sell most of our copper, lead and zinc concentrates to smelters Development projects under long-term volume contracts at prices based on the LME Worsley Efficiency and Growth project price for the contained metal, typically set three or four months In May 2008, we announced the Boards approval of an after shipment, less treatment charges and refining charges expansion project to increase the capacity of the Worsley refinery collectively referred to as TCRCs that are negotiated with the from 3.5 million tonnes per annum mtpa of alumina to 4.6 mtpa smelters mostly on an annual or bi-annual basis.
Some of the ores 100 per cent capacity through expanded mining operations we mine contain quantities of silver and gold, which remain in at Boddington, additional refinery capacity and upgraded port the base metal concentrates we sell.
We receive payment credits facilities.
A supplementary approval of the development was for the silver and gold recovered by our customers in the smelting obtained in June 2011.
The expansion project, with a budgeted and refining process.
capital expenditure of US$3.0 billion, achieved first production in March 2012 and full production is on track to be achieved within We sell most of our copper cathode production to wire rod mills, the original ramp-up schedule of 1216 months from March 2012. brass mills and casting plants around the world under annual The operations are well placed to achieve a smooth ramp-up due contracts with prices at premiums to LME prices.
We sell uranium to the extensive commissioning and operating planning that has oxide to electricity generating utilities, principally in Western been put in place.
Worsley is already one of the most efficient and Europe, North America and North Asia.
Uranium is typically sold productive alumina refineries in the world and its unit cash costs under a mix of longer-term and shorter-term contracts.
A significant are expected to benefit from the increased scale of production.
portion of our uranium production is sold into fixed price contracts, although increasingly sales are based on flexible pricing terms.
Guinea Alumina We have six assets, with Pampa Norte having two operations.
We have a one-third interest in a joint venture that has undertaken a feasibility study into the construction of a 10 mtpa bauxite mine, Escondida an alumina refinery with processing capacity exceeding 3.3 mtpa Our 57.5 per cent owned and operated Escondida mine is the and associated infrastructure approximately 110 kilometres from largest producer in the world.
In FY2012, our share of Escondida the port of Kamsar in Guinea.
We are seeking to exit the project.
production was 333.8 kt of payable copper in concentrate and 172.0 kt of copper cathode.
4 Base Metals Customer Sector Group Our Base Metals CSG is one of the worlds premier producers of Escondida has a reserve life of 54 years.
The increase in reserves copper, silver, lead and uranium, and a leading producer of zinc.
from 35 years in FY2011 is predominantly due to OGP1 approval Our portfolio of large, low-cost mining operations includes the that will deliver double the current flotation capacity that allows Escondida mine in Chile, the worlds largest single producer improved recovery of lower grade ores with commensurate of copper, and Olympic Dam in South Australia, already expansion of the reserves footprint.
a major producer of copper and uranium with the potential The availability of key inputs like power and water at competitive for expansion.
prices is an important focus at Escondida.
Escondidas power Our total copper production in FY2012 was 1.1 Mt.
In addition to demand of approximately 440 MW is currently covered by four conventional mine development, we continue to pursue advanced contracts: one of which provides 340 MW until 2029: and the treatment technologies, such as leaching low-grade chalcopyrite balance of which provide 252 MW until 2016. ores, which we believe have the potential to recover copper from To address limitations on the availability of water, we desalinate ores previously uneconomic to treat.
and carefully manage our use and re-use of available water.
We market five primary products: copper concentrates, copper We are exploring alternative sources, including further desalination cathodes, uranium oxide, lead concentrates and zinc concentrates.
24 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Pampa Norte Cerro Colorado Operation 2.2.
4 Base Metals Customer Sector Group continued Our wholly owned Cerro Colorado mine in Chile remains a significant Olympic Dam producer of copper cathode, although production levels have declined Olympic Dam is already a significant producer of copper cathode in recent years as grades have declined.
Production in FY2012 was and uranium oxide and a refiner of smaller amounts of gold and 83.4 kt of copper cathode.
We are exploring a series of staged development options that would make our wholly owned Olympic Dam operation Cerro Colorado has a reserve life of 10 years.
one of the worlds largest producers of copper, the largest producer Cannington of uranium and a significant producer of gold see Development Our wholly owned Cannington mine in northwest Queensland, projects below.
Australia, is one of the worlds largest producers of silver.
Production in FY2012 was lower than that achieved in FY2011.
In FY2012, Cannington produced concentrates containing Olympic Dam produced 192.6 kt FY2011 194.1 kt of copper 239.1 kt of lead, 54.7 kt of zinc and approximately 34.2 million cathode, 3.9 kt FY2011 4.0 kt of uranium oxide, 117.8 kilo-ounces ounces of silver.
FY2011 111.4 kilo-ounces of refined gold and 907 kilo-ounces Cannington has a reserve life of eight years.
FY2011 982 kilo-ounces of refined silver in FY2012.
North America Pinto Valley Olympic Dam has a reserve life of 57 years.
As a result of favourable economic conditions in FY2012, in particular Antamina copper prices, the decision was made to resume sulphide mining We own 33.75 per cent of Antamina, a large, low-cost, and milling operations at the Pinto Valley mine located in Arizona, long-life copper zinc mine in Peru.
Antamina has a reserve United States.
The mine, which will produce copper and molybdenum life of 16 years.
Our share of Antaminas FY2012 production concentrate, is expected to have annual production capacity was 127.0 kt of copper in concentrate, and 57.5 kt of zinc of approximately 60 kt of copper in concentrate.
Antamina also produces smaller amounts is expected to resume mining at the end of CY2012 FY2013.
of molybdenum and lead bismuth concentrate.
Copper cathode will also continue to be produced at Pinto Valley Pampa Norte Spence Operation and the neighbouring Miami Unit from residual solvent extraction Our wholly owned Spence copper mine produces copper cathode.
During FY2012, we produced 180.3 kt of copper cathode.
Pinto Valley has a reserve life of four years.
Spence has a reserve life of 11 years.
Information on Base Metals mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserve tables see section 2.13.2.
Mine Type & Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Use Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source & Condition Copper Escondida Atacama Public road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Mining concession Original 2 open-cut pits: Escondida 2 concentrator Desert, 170 km 57.5% of Minera from Chilean construction Escondida and owned plants extract Copper cathode southeast of Escondida Government completed 1990 Escondida Norte transmission copper concentrate transported by Antofagasta, Limitada MEL valid indefinitely lines connect to from sulphide ore privately owned Subsequent Escondida and Chile subject to payment Chiles northern by flotation rail to ports Rio Tinto 30% expansion Escondida Norte of annual fees power grid extraction process at Antofagasta JECO Corporation projects cost mineral deposits and Mejillones consortium US$3.0 billion are adjacent but Electricity 2 solvent extraction comprising 100% distinct supergene purchased plants produce Copper Mitsubishi, enriched porphyry under contract copper cathode concentrate Sulphide Nippon Mining copper deposits transported by Leach copper Nominal capacity: and Metals 10% Escondida-owned project cost 3.2 mtpa copper Jeco 2 Ltd 2.5% pipeline to its US$1.0 billion concentrate Coloso port 100% 330 ktpa copper facilities cathode First production 2006 Spence Atacama Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining concession Development Open-cut Group-owned Processing and Desert, from Chilean cost of transmission crushing facilities, Copper cathode Supergene enriched 150 km Government US$1.1 billion lines connect to separate dynamic transported by porphyry copper northeast of valid indefinitely approved 2004 Chiles northern on-off leach rail to ports at deposit that Antofagasta, subject to payment power grid pads, solvent Mejillones and First copper includes copper Chile of annual fees extraction plant, Antofagasta produced 2006 oxide ores overlying Electricity electrowinning plant a sulphide zone purchased under contract Nominal capacity: 200 ktpa BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 25 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Base Metals mining operations continued Mine Type & Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Use Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source & Condition Copper continued Cerro Colorado Atacama Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining concession Commercial Open-cut Long-term 2 primary, secondary Desert, from Chilean production contracts with and tertiary Copper cathode Supergene enriched 120 km east Government valid commenced 1994 northern Chile crushers, leaching trucked to port and oxidised of Iquique, indefinitely subject power grid pads, solvent at Iquique Expansions 1996 porphyry copper Chile to payment extraction plant, and 1998 deposit that of annual fees electrowinning plant consists of a sulphide Nominal capacity: enrichment zone 120 ktpa overlayed by oxide ore chrysocolla and brochantite Pinto Valley 125 km east of Public road 100% BHP Billiton Freehold title Acquired 1996 Pinto Valley: Salt River 2 SXEW operations Phoenix, to the land as part of open-pit project at Pinto Valley As a result of Arizona, US Magma Copper and Miami the resumption Miami Unit: acquisition of the sulphide in-situ leach operations, Sulphide mining Porphyry copper copper and and milling deposit of molybdenum operations low-grade primary concentrate discontinued mineralisation to be trucked 2009 to restart 1 FY2013 Residual SXEW production continues Copper Uranium Olympic Dam 560 km Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining lease Acquired 2005 Underground Supplied via Automated train northwest granted by as part of WMC a 275 kV and trucking Copper cathode Large poly-metallic of Adelaide, South Australian acquisition powerline from network.
Crushing, trucked to ports deposit of iron South Australia Government Port Augusta, storage and ore Copper oxide-copper-gold Uranium oxide expires 2036 transmitted hoisting facilities production mineralisation transported by by ElectraNet Right of extension began 1988 2 grinding circuits road to ports for 50 years to extract copper Throughput concentrate from raised to 9 mtpa sulphide ore in 1999 Flash furnace Optimisation produces copper project anodes, which completed 2002 are then refined New copper to produce copper solvent 2 cathodes extraction plant Nominal capacity: commissioned 200 ktpa copper 2004 cathode Copper Zinc Antamina Andes Public road BHP Billiton Compaa Mining rights Commercial Open-cut Long-term Primary crusher, mountain 33.75% of Minera from Peruvian production contracts with concentrator Copper and zinc Zoned porphyry range, 270 km Compaa Minera Antamina Government commenced 2001 individual nominal capacity concentrates and skarn deposit north of Lima, Antamina S. A. S. A. held indefinitely, power 130,000 tpd, copper transported by Capital cost with central north-central subject to payment producers and zinc flotation pipeline to port Xstrata 33.75% US$2.3 billion Cu-only ores and Peru of annual fees circuits, bismuth of Huarmey Teck Cominco 100% an outer band and supply moly cleaning circuit 22.5% of Cu-Zn ore zone Molybdenum of information Mitsubishi 10% 300 km concentrate and lead bismuth on investment pipeline design concentrates and production throughput transported 2.3 dry mtpa by truck Port facilities at Huarmey 1 Mining operations previously discontinued in 1998 and restarted in 2007 and again discontinued in 2009.
2 Electrowon copper cathode and uranium oxide concentrate produced by leaching and solvent extracting flotation tailings.
