2 Information on the Company continued impact, with each operation required to implement a monitoring 2.8.
6 Reducing our climate change impacts continued and review program that verifies the effectiveness of these controls.
Engaging in policy development continued Governments globally are considering a variety of legislative and In FY2012, we achieved our water target with a 29 per cent regulatory options to mitigate GHG emissions.
In our view, assessing improvement in the ratio of water recycled reused to high-quality these options requires an understanding of their likely effectiveness, water consumed when compared with the FY2007 base year.
scale and cost, as well as their implications for economic growth This was primarily due to the reduction in high-quality water and quality of life.
We take an active role in climate change policy use and increase in desalinated water use at our Base Metals development in the key regions where we operate and market our Escondida Asset.
We have developed six principles that outline what we Our new water target requires all operations with water-related believe climate change policies should deliver to best tackle carbon material risks, including volume and quality considerations, emission reduction: clear price signal: revenue neutral: trade friendly: to set targets and implement projects to reduce their impact broad-based, predictable and gradual: simple and effective.
In all on water resources.
This target recognises the local and regional instances of climate change policy development, we analyse and context of water by including all material risks, rather than compare the various policy options by evaluating the degree to which adhering to a single metric based on water use reduction, they meet these principles.
Although we are committed to contributing and allows operations to define the necessary projects that to the public debate on climate change, including sharing our will best address their material water risks.
knowledge and experience, we recognise that it is for government and society as a whole to decide which direction to take.
Onshore US and hydraulic fracturing In line with our strategy to have a suite of diversified commodities, In recent years, we have actively engaged with the Australian we made a significant investment in natural gas and liquids by Government on the development and implementation of its climate acquiring the US Fayetteville shale resource from Chesapeake change policy response.
During FY2012, we commented on the Energy Corporation in March 2011 and subsequently acquiring Australian Governments draft Energy White Paper 2011, which Petrohawk Energy Corporation in August 2011, which now form our will become the policy framework for government decision-making Petroleum Onshore US business.
Extracting oil and gas from shale regarding energy sources in the years ahead.
In terms of the carbon involves hydraulic fracturing.
Hydraulic fracturing is an essential and price introduced in July 2012, as part of the Australian Governments common practice in the oil and gas industry to stimulate production Clean Energy Future Plan, we continue to hold the view that this of natural gas and oil from dense subsurface rock formations.
is just one of the potential policy measures that government can Hydraulic fracturing involves using water, sand and a small amount adopt to address climate change and that any policy response of chemicals to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation should be broad-based and use a portfolio of complementary to allow flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore.
Independently, we maintain the Carbon Pricing Protocol, an internal mechanism for pricing Public concerns have been raised about hydraulic fracturing, carbon and determining carbon price impacts on our greenfield including potential environmental impacts of the hydraulic fracturing and brownfield developments and on mergers and acquisitions.
fluid, its potential effect on drinking water aquifers, the handling The Carbon Pricing Protocol is updated annually to reflect internal and disposal of waste water produced from the wells, and the and external carbon price modelling and the proposed treatment visual, noise and traffic impacts on the use of the surface land.
of carbon permits in countries where we operate.
The oil and gas industry is well established and is subject to federal, state and local regulations requiring permits for well construction, 2.8.
7 Managing water drilling and waste water disposal.
The waste water produced from The sustainability of our operations relies on our ability to obtain the wells, including the hydraulic fracturing fluids, is disposed of the appropriate quality and quantity of water and to use this safely in accordance with applicable oil and gas industry regulations resource responsibly.
and BHP Billitons operating standards.
The composition of Managing water is a complex issue hydraulic fracturing fluids, including chemicals, is publicly disclosed in FracFocus, the hydraulic fracturing Chemical Disclosure Registry Increased competition for water, due to population growth, ww w. fr acfocus.
Our priority is to safely develop these operations urbanisation and industrialisation, is affecting the quantity and in a way that protects the health and safety of the environment and quality of available water resources and poses a potential operational the communities in which we operate.
The social, cultural, environmental, ecological and economic values of water have led to greater scrutiny of Developing new water accounting standards responsible water use and expectations from our stakeholders Unlike the more developed accounting approach to GHG emissions, for improved resource stewardship.
We are experiencing greater there is no internationally consistent approach to water accounting governance, regulation and performance requirements in response and reporting.
During FY2012, we piloted the Minerals Council to these expectations.
At the same time, climate change is likely of Australias Water Accounting Framework at several of our sites.
to make the patterns and cycles of water flows less predictable, From FY2013, we will align our water reporting across all our requiring flexible and adaptive responses.
We also consider the operations with the framework, which aims to improve data cumulative effects on water resources when multiple operations integrity, allow more meaningful analysis to inform policy-making are active within a region.
and deliver improved outcomes for industry and communities.
Managing water risks across our operations 2.8.
8 Managing land and enhancing biodiversity Water risks and impacts experienced by our operations vary We seek to deliver lasting benefits to the environment and from region to region and from site to site, with some sites communities by improving natural resource management and facing multiple and conflicting risks, including water scarcity, enhancing biodiversity.
Securing access to land and managing water excess and water quality issues.
it effectively are essential components of our commitment to The range of potential water-related risks and their potential operate in a responsible and sustainable manner.
We depend impacts on water resources, biodiversity and communities makes upon biodiversity and the related benefits derived from managing water a complex task for our businesses.
To ensure these ecosystems, which include food, air and water.
impacts are managed to an acceptable level, all operations are Biodiversity and land is a complex issue required to develop a Water Management Plan.
This plan takes We appreciate the importance of preserving biodiversity and into consideration the baseline quantity and quality of water the challenge this presents to all land users.
Host governments potentially affected and quantifies the acceptable level of impact and communities are seeking a greater demonstration of effective to water resources, taking into account regulatory requirements land stewardship as a critical component in their decision to grant and stakeholder expectations.
It also details the preventive and land access.
This is exacerbated by growing competition for land, mitigating controls necessary to achieve the acceptable level of whether it is for mining, agriculture, forestry, water supply or 48 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012
