1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Waste Management Plans, which address waste minimisation, 2.8.
8 Managing land and enhancing biodiversity continued storage, transportation and disposal.
These plans are maintained to biodiversity conservation.
Increasingly, operations are located control risk of adverse impacts on the environment and communities.
within areas of greater environmental or social sensitivity.
Consequently, this requires broader consideration of how we Tailings dams are constructed and operated to engineering standards, manage land use and biodiversity at our operations and how and monitored and assessed to manage material risks, including this is balanced with other societal needs.
Obtaining community the risk of failure.
Mineral wastes are analysed for physical and support is most challenging when there is strong competition geochemical characteristics to identify potential impacts arising for the use of the land, such as the competition between resource from erosion, acid rock drainage, salinity, radioactivity and metal development and agriculture.
We do not dispose of tailings or waste rock into river or marine environments.
Biodiversity, land and our business We assess and manage the potential land and biodiversity impacts 2.8.
9 Ensuring meaningful engagement of our operations throughout their life cycle.
Our Environment GLD with our stakeholders requires all operations to have Land and Biodiversity Management We engage regularly, openly and honestly with people and Plans that incorporate baseline and impact assessments, controls organisations interested in and affected by our operations and designed to mitigate impacts on biodiversity and the related take their views and concerns into account in our decision-making.
benefits derived from ecosystems, and monitoring programs to verify the effectiveness of controls.
Operations are required to Effectively engaging with our stakeholders adhere to a formal management hierarchy that begins with avoiding We define stakeholders as those who are potentially affected disturbance, followed by mitigating negative impacts, rehabilitating by our operations or who have an interest in or an influence land both during operation and at closure and undertaking over what we do.
Our key stakeholders include the investment compensatory actions, such as biodiversity offsets, at our operations.
community, shareholders, customers, media, business partners, We rehabilitate disturbed areas consistent with the pre disturbance employees and contractors, local and Indigenous communities, land use or alternative land uses developed in consultation with industry associations, suppliers, governments and regulators, stakeholders.
We have explicit commitments relating to exploration non-government organisations NGOs, community-based and extraction of resources in areas of high environmental sensitivity organisations and labour unions.
and also in relation to threatened species.
We seek to build trust with stakeholders at the earliest possible Managing land access stage of a projects life.
Our Community GLD stipulates that Our approach to land access is undertaken on a case-by-case basis, a Stakeholder Engagement Management Plan be in place from and takes into account potential environmental, societal, economic the development phase of a project and be reviewed annually.
We first consider what land we need.
We then The plans identify the interests and relationships of stakeholders look at our possible short-term and long-term impacts on that and contain a range of culturally and socially inclusive engagement land, including the effects that our use may have on biodiversity activities to encourage open communication.
Our operations and the related benefits derived from ecosystems.
We also are required to measure the effectiveness of their stakeholder seek to identify the present and past uses of the land and any engagement by conducting mandatory community perception landowners, occupiers and users who may be affected by our surveys every three years.
Compensatory actions, such as biodiversity offsets, Engaging with NGOs through the Forum may be undertaken where residual impacts exceed the acceptable on Corporate Responsibility level of impact to biodiversity, land use water resources.
Established in 1999, the Forum on Corporate Responsibility currently Addressing land rehabilitation challenges includes six members from our Group Management Committee The rehabilitation of land no longer required for our activities GMC and eight senior leaders from the NGO sector.
The NGO continues to be a central part of our approach to managing our members have extensive experience in regions where we have effects on land.
In 2007, we established a target of achieving a business interests, including South America, west Africa, Australia 10 per cent improvement in the land rehabilitation index the ratio and the United Kingdom.
Our Chief Executive Officer chairs the of land rehabilitated to land disturbed.
We did not achieve our land meetings, which were held twice during FY2012.
rehabilitation target due to the growth of some of our operations and The Forum encourages open discussion and expression of views the challenges associated with progressive rehabilitation while an on environmental, socio-economic, geopolitical and ethical issues.
This delayed our ability to rehabilitate land for Sustainability issues discussed in the past financial year included suitable uses that meet environmental and stakeholder requirements.
energy choices: biodiversity: Indigenous people and free prior Enhancing biodiversity and contributing to conservation and informed consent: resource endowment and benefit sharing: and consideration of our new HSEC targets.
While we are not bound Improving our management of land and enhancing biodiversity by the advice of the Forum and the Forum does not necessarily are essential to operating in a responsible and sustainable manner.
endorse the Companys decisions, the meeting provides insight In July 2012, we introduced new biodiversity and conservation into societys current priorities and an opportunity to understand targets.
The first target focuses on a core business requirement and debate issues from multiple viewpoints.
to implement management plans that include controls to prevent, minimise, rehabilitate and offset impacts to biodiversity and the Acknowledging customary rights related benefits derived from ecosystems.
In addition to this, At a very early stage in a project, before any substantive work we have introduced a conservation target, which will see the Group is carried out on the ground, we seek to identify landowners, finance the conservation and ongoing management of areas of high occupiers and users who may be affected by our activities.
biodiversity and ecosystem value that are of national or international Knowing who owns and uses the land is critical to establishing conservation significance.
As a result of this conservation target, an effective community consultation and engagement program.
we will broaden our environmental activities beyond what could In instances where land may be used for customary purposes and be achieved by our operations alone.
This conservation work will no formal land title has been issued, information is sought from be largely supported by the five-year alliance established in FY2012 relevant organisations to determine those groups with connections between Conservation International and BHP Billiton, which aims to the land.
This includes government authorities with responsibilities to deliver significant and lasting benefits to the environment by for customary land uses and any Indigenous peoples representative preserving areas of high conservation value.
Surveys are commissioned to identify the customary Managing waste owners and how the land is being used to ensure these uses are Mining and mineral processing operations produce large quantities taken into account in our development plans.
of mineral waste, including waste rock, tailings and slag, which need to be effectively managed.
Our operations are required to have BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 49
