7 Directors Report continued 7.22 Performance in relation 7.23 Share capital, restrictions on transfer to environmental regulation of shares and other additional information A significant environmental incident is one with a severity rating Information relating to BHP Billiton Plcs share capital structure, of four or above based on our internal severity rating scale tiered restrictions on the holding or transfer of its securities or on the from one to seven by increasing severity.
There were no significant exercise of voting rights attaching to such securities, certain incidents reported in FY2012.
agreements triggered on a change of control and the existence of branches of BHP Billiton outside of the UK, is set out in the Fines and prosecutions following sections of this Annual Report: In FY2012, BHP Billiton received two fines with a total value Section 2.1 BHP Billiton locations of US$27,200.
Section 2.7 Government regulations In particular, we received a fine of US$24,000, levied in Gabon Section 2.10 Organisational structure in relation to the incorrect disposal of waste aerosol and paint Section 2.11 Material contracts cans, and oil filters at our Franceville operation.
We have instituted corrective measures.
Section 2.12 Constitution Section 7.2 Share capital and buy-back programs The second fine of US$3,200 was levied in the US, where our Section 11.2 Share ownership Navajo Coal Company operations were cited for failure to rip coal in accordance with the provisions in the mining permit.
Note 19 Share capital and note 32 Employee share ownership We have instituted preventative measures.
plans to the financial statements of this Annual Report.
Further information about our performance, including in relation Further details of all options and rights outstanding as at the to environmental regulation can be found in section 2.8 of this date of this Directors Report, including shares issued upon exercise Annual Report and in the Sustainability Report available on our of options and rights, are set out in note 32 Employee share website at w w w. bhpbilliton.
ownership plans to the financial statements of this Annual Report.
Details of movements in share capital during and since the end of the financial year are set out in note 19 Share capital to the financial statements of this Annual Report.
Each of the above sections is incorporated by reference into, and forms part of, this Directors Report.
The Directors Report is made in accordance with a resolution of the Board.
Jac Nasser AO Chairman Marius Kloppers Chief Executive Officer Dated: 12 September 2012 166 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012
