Shareholder information Annual General Meetings Shareholders from the abovementioned locations who do not BHP Billiton Plc Thursday, 25 October 2012 at 11.00am provide their direct credit details and shareholders with registered The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, addresses outside Australia, the United Kingdom, New Zealand Westminster, London, UK.
and the United States will receive dividend payments by way of a cheque in Australian dollars.
BHP Billiton Limited Thursday, 29 November 2012 at 10.30am Sydney Convention Centre, Darling Harbour, Sydney.
BHP Billiton Plc shareholders may have their cash dividends paid directly into a bank or building society by completing Change of shareholder details and enquiries a dividend mandate form, which is available from Shareholders may contact the appropriate office of the the BHP Billiton Share Registrar in the United Kingdom BHP Billiton Share Registrar or Transfer Office on any matter or South Africa.
relating to their shares or American Depositary Receipt holdings.
Stock exchange listings Dividend policy and payments BHP Billiton Limited has a primary listing on the Australian We have a progressive dividend policy that seeks to steadily Securities Exchange ASX in Australia and BHP Billiton Plc increase or at least to maintain the dividend in US dollars has a premium listing on the UK Listing Authoritys Official List at each half yearly payment.
and its ordinary shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange LSE.
BHP Billiton Plc also has a secondary We declare our dividends and other distributions in US dollars as it is our main functional currency.
BHP Billiton Limited pays its listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE in South Africa.
dividends in Australian dollars, UK pounds sterling, New Zealand In addition, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are listed dollars or US dollars, depending on the country of residence of on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the United States.
BHP Billiton Plc pays its dividends in UK pounds Trading on the NYSE is via American Depositary Shares.
sterling to shareholders registered on its principal register in the United Kingdom and in South African rand to shareholders Key dates for shareholders registered on its branch register in South Africa.
If shareholders The following table sets out future dates in the next financial on the United Kingdom register wish to receive dividends and calendar year of interest to our shareholders.
If there in US dollars they must complete an appropriate election form are any changes to these dates, all relevant stock exchanges and return it to the BHP Billiton Share Registrar no later than will be notified.
close of business on the Dividend Record Date.
Date Events BHP Billiton Limited shareholders may have their cash dividends 28 September 2012 Final Dividend Payment Date paid directly into a nominated bank, building society or credit union, depending on the shareholders country of residence 25 October 2012 BHP Billiton Plc Annual General Meeting in London as shown below.
29 November 2012 BHP Billiton Limited Annual General Country where Meeting in Sydney shareholder is resident Financial institution 20 February 2013 Interim Results Announced Australia Bank, building society, credit union 8 March 2013 Interim Dividend Record Date United Kingdom Bank, building society 28 March 2013 Interim Dividend Payment Date New Zealand Bank 21 August 2013 Annual Results Announced United States Bank All up-to-date shareholder information is available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com Latest news View this report as well as our Annual Report Reports and presentations and Sustainability Report.
Company overview including Our Charter, Structure and Governance Online shareholder services Subscribe to receive news alerts sent directly to your email address check your holding BHP Billiton produces a range of publications which are available register to receive electronic in formats that allow shareholders to receive information in their shareholder communications preferred manner.
View online, download or receive a paper copy update your records including by calling the relevant Share Registrar.
address and direct credit details BHP Billiton Limited access all your securities 1300 656 780 from within Australia in one portfolio by setting 61 3 9415 4020 from elsewhere up a personal account BHP Billiton Plc vote online 44 844 472 7001 United Kingdom 27 11 373 0033 South Africa 36 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2012
