1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Information on Base Metals mining operations continued Mine Type & Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Use Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source & Condition Silver, Lead and Zinc Cannington 300 km Public road and 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases Concentrate Underground On-site power Beneficiation plant: southeast Group-owned granted by production Broken Hill-type station primary and of Mt Isa, airstrip Queensland commenced silver-lead-zinc operated under secondary grinding Queensland, Government 1997, subsequent sulphide deposit contract circuits, pre-flotation Product trucked Australia expire 2029 projects improved circuits, flotation to Yurbi, then by mill throughput circuits, leaching rail to public port and metal circuits, concentrate recovery filtration circuit, paste plant Nominal milling capacity: 3.2 mtpa truck shop facility and upgrades to the crushing and tailing systems, Development projects flotation circuit and port capacity.
Commissioning of the SAG mill Olympic Dam and first production was achieved in March 2012.
The project is The proposed expansion of Olympic Dam would be a progressive more than 92 per cent complete.
development requiring construction activity to increase production up to 750 kt per annum ktpa of copper, 19 ktpa of uranium oxide Resolution Copper and 800 kilo-ounces of gold.
On 10 October 2011, the South Australian We hold a 45 per cent interest in the Resolution Copper project in Government and Australian Commonwealth Government approved Arizona, United States, operated by Rio Tinto 55 per cent interest.
the Environmental Impact Statement for the Olympic Dam Project.
Resolution Copper is undertaking a pre-feasibility study into We announced on 22 August 2012 that we will not approve the a substantial underground copper mine and processing facility.
open-pit expansion of our Olympic Dam mine in South Australia In FY2012, Resolution Copper continued to advance the sinking in time to meet the Roxby Downs Indenture Ratification of the No.
10 Shaft in order to gain access to the ore deposit for Amendment of Indenture Amendment Act 2011 deadline of characterisation work of mineralisation and geotechnical conditions.
We will investigate a less capital intensive design of the Olympic Dam open-pit expansion, involving new Work also continued towards gaining approval from the US Congress technologies to substantially improve the economics of the project.
for a Federal Land Exchange to access the ore deposit.
5 Diamonds and Specialty Products On 27 August 2012, we announced we have signed an agreement to Customer Sector Group sell our wholly owned Yeelirrie uranium deposit in Western Australia Our Diamonds and Specialty Products CSG operates our diamonds to Cameco Corporation for US$430 million.
The sale is subject to business and engages in the exploration and development of a potash relevant approvals from the Australian Foreign Investment Review business.
On 1 February 2012, we announced that we had exercised Board and Government of Western Australia.
an option to sell our 37.8 per cent non-operated interest in Richards Bay Minerals to Rio Tinto and will exit the titanium minerals industry.
Escondida On 7 September 2012, we announced the sale was complete.
Exploration of the Escondida lease and early drilling results have resulted in an announcement of extensive additional mineralisation Diamonds in close proximity to existing infrastructure and processing Our diamonds business is comprised of the EKATI Diamond Mine facilities, including the Pampa Escondida and Pinta Verde in the Northwest Territories of Canada.
EKATI has produced on prospects.
In FY2012, Escondida has expensed US$104.7 million average almost three million carats per year of rough diamonds US$60.2 million BHP Billiton share in exploration.
The grade of ore we process fluctuates from year to year, resulting in variations in carats produced.
In addition, The Escondida Ore Access project provides access to higher-grade the proportion of our production consisting of high-value carats ore and commenced the execution phase during FY2011 with first larger and or higher-quality stones and low-value carats smaller production achieved during the June 2012 quarter.
In addition, the and or lower-quality stones fluctuates from year to year.
EKATI has Laguna Seca Debottlenecking project, which will provide additional a reserve life of three years.
processing capacity, commenced the execution phase in FY2011 and is expected to complete this phase during the second half of Our interest in EKATI consists of an 80 per cent interest in the CY2012.
Organic Growth Project 1 OGP1, which is the replacement Core Zone Joint Venture, comprising existing operations and of the Los Colorados concentrator allowing access to higher-grade a 58.8 per cent interest in the Buffer Zone Joint Venture, primarily ore and additional processing capacity, was approved and moved focusing on exploration targets.
into the execution phase in February 2012.
OGP1 is expected to cost Annual sales from EKATI 100 per cent terms represented US$3.8 billion US$2.2 billion BHP Billiton share.
In February 2012, approximately two per cent of current world rough diamond BHP Billiton also approved the Oxide Leach Area Project OLAP, supply by weight and approximately six per cent by value which creates a new dynamic leaching pad and mineral handling in FY2012.
We sell most of our rough diamonds to international system that will include several overland conveyers.
The new pad diamond buyers through our Antwerp sales office.
is expected to maintain oxide leaching capacity at current levels following the exhaustion of the existing heap leach in CY2014.
On 30 November 2011, we announced that we are reviewing our OLAP is expected to cost US$721 million US$414 million BHP Billiton diamonds business, comprising our interests in the EKATI Diamond share with commissioning anticipated in the middle of CY2014.
Mine and the Chidliak exploration project in Canada.
This review is examining whether a continued presence in the diamonds industry Antamina is consistent with our strategy and evaluating the potential sale In FY2012, Antamina continued execution of the expansion of all or part of the diamonds business.
With a total investment of US$1.3 billion US$435 million we confirmed that we agreed to sell our 51 per cent interest BHP Billiton share, the project expands milling capacity by 38 per cent in the Chidliak diamonds exploration project on Baffin Island, to 130 kt per day ktpd.
The expansion project includes a new Canada, to our joint venture partner, Peregrine Diamonds Ltd.
SAG mill, a new 55-kilometre power transmission line, an expanded BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 27 2 Information on the Company continued in respect of developing our potash business.
5 Diamonds and Specialty Products positions for potash extend over 14,500 square kilometres Customer Sector Group continued in the Saskatchewan basin.
Potash Titanium minerals Our potash strategy is to build a material industry position over the long term.
We continue advancing the Jansen Project, a greenfield Our principal interest in titanium minerals consists of our potash project in Saskatchewan, Canada.
Jansen progressed 37.8 per cent economic interest in Richards Bay Minerals RBM.
into the feasibility study phase an advanced stage of our project RBM is a major producer of titania slag, high-purity pig iron, approvals process in February 2011.
Approved spending for rutile and zircon from mineral sands.
Approximately 90 per cent Jansen is US$1.1 billion.
of the titanium dioxide slag produced by RBM is suitable for the chloride process of titanium dioxide pigment manufacture and Jansen is designed ultimately to produce approximately eight mtpa is sold internationally under a variety of short-, mediumand of agricultural grade potash.
We are also continuing to study other potential projects in the On 1 February 2012, we announced that we exercised an option Saskatchewan potash basin, including Young, Boulder and Melville, to sell our non-operated interest in RBM to Rio Tinto and will and are progressing these projects in the context of our exit the titanium minerals industry.
On 7 September 2012, we development portfolio.
announced the sale was complete.
The sale price was US$1.9 billion We are conducting a potash exploration program, including 3D before adjustments.
seismic survey and drilling programs.
We have approved spending of almost US$2 billion including Jansen and other acquisitions Information on Diamonds and Specialty Products mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserve tables see section 2.13.2.
Mine Type & Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Use Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source & Condition Diamonds EKATI Diamond Mine 310 km Aircraft Core Zone JV BHP Billiton Mining leases Production Fox: open-cut JV owned and Crushers, washers northeast of BHP Billiton 80% granted by began 1997 operated diesel scrubber and grinder Ice road open Koala and Koala Yellowknife, Canadian power station and heavy media approximately Buffer Zone JV Mine and North: underground Northwest Government separator 10 weeks BHP Billiton processing Eocene age Territories, until 2022 per year 58.8% plant began Magnetics and kimberlite pipes Canada operating 1998 X-ray sorters for Remaining dominantly diamond recovery interest held Ownership volcaniclastic by 2 individuals increased with infill Fuel storage acquisition of Dia Met Minerals in 2001 Titanium minerals Richards Bay Minerals 1050 km north Public road BHP Billiton Rio Tinto Long-term RBM formed 1976 Dune sand Eskom 4 dune sand of Richards Bay, 37.8% economic renewable mineral dredging national utility dredge mines, Product Fifth mine added KwaZulu-Natal, interest through leases from South company minor supplementary transported 2000 Quaternary age South Africa 50% interest African Government dry mining by public rail coastal dune One mining plant in the 2 legal subject to South to port deposits heavy Gravity separation decommissioned entities that African Mining mineral sands produces heavy in 2008 comprise RBM, Charter concentrated mineral concentrate Announced Richards Bay by wave and which is trucked exercise of option Mining Pty Ltd wind action to central processing to sell interest and Richards Bay plant to produce in RBM on Titanium Pty Ltd rutile, zircon 1 February 2012 RBM functions and ilmenite and completion as a single Nominal titanium of the sale on 1 economic entity slag capacity 7 September 2012 1.05 mtpa 1 Smelter processes ilmenite to produce titanium dioxide slag and high-purity iron.
Diamonds Development projects On 9 May 2011, we approved the Misery open-pit project at Jansen Potash Project the EKATI Diamond Mine in the Northwest Territories of Canada.
On 24 June 2011, we approved US$488 million of pre-commitment This project consists of a pushback of the existing Misery open-pit, spending to fund early-stage site preparation for surface which was mined from 2001 to 2005.
Stripping operations began construction, procurement of long lead time items and the first in September 2011, with ore production expected to begin in late sections of the production and service shafts.
On 30 June 2011, the 2015 and final production from Misery expected in mid-2017.
The Saskatchewan Ministry of Environment approved our Environmental estimated capital expenditure required to complete the execution Impact Statement for the development of the Jansen project.
phase is US$323 million BHP Billiton share.
We are currently executing a ground freezing program in which the ground will be frozen using a closed system of refrigeration pipes through which brine is circulated.
Excavation of shafts is also under way with shaft collars completed and shaft sinking due to begin by the end of CY2012.
Sinking headframes and hoists are also being installed.
The eventual depth of the service and production shafts will be approximately one kilometre.
