5 Corporate Governance Statement continued Management has put in place a number of key policies, processes, 5.14 Risk management governance structure performance requirements and independent controls to provide We believe that the identification and management of risk is assurance to the Board and the RAC as to the integrity of our central to achieving the corporate purpose of creating long-term reporting and effectiveness of our systems of internal control and shareholder value.
Our approach to risk is set out in section 1.5. risk management.
Some of the more significant internal control systems include Board and management committees, Business The principal aim of the Groups risk management governance Group RACs and internal audit.
structure and internal control systems is to identify, evaluate and manage business risks, with a view to enhancing the value Business Group Risk and Audit Committees of shareholders investments and safeguarding assets.
The Business Group RACs assist the RAC to monitor the Groups obligations in relation to financial reporting, internal control Each year, the Board reviews and considers the risk profile for the whole business.
This risk profile covers both operational and structure, risk management processes and the internal and external audit functions.
The risk profile is assessed to ensure it supports the achievement of the Groups strategy while maintaining Board committees a solid A credit rating.
Directors also monitor risks and controls through the RAC, The Board has delegated the oversight of risk management the Remuneration Committee and the Sustainability Committee.
to the RAC, although the Board retains overall accountability Management committees for the Groups risk profile.
In addition, the Board specifically Management committees also perform roles in relation to risk and requires the CEO to implement a system of control for identifying control.
Strategic risks and opportunities arising from changes in and managing risk.
The Directors, through the RAC, review the our business environment are regularly reviewed by the GMC and systems that have been established for this purpose and regularly discussed by the Board.
The Financial Risk Management Committee review their effectiveness.
The RAC regularly reports to the Board FRMC reviews the effectiveness of internal controls relating to enable it to review the Groups risk framework.
to commodity price risk, counterparty credit risk, currency risk, The RAC has established review processes for the nature and extent financing risk, interest rate risk and insurance.
Minutes of the GMC of material risks taken in achieving our purpose.
These processes and the FRMC meetings are provided to the Board.
The Investment include the application of materiality and tolerance criteria to Committee provides oversight for investment processes across determine and assess material risks.
Materiality criteria include the business and coordinates the investment toll-gating process maximum foreseeable loss and residual risk thresholds and are set for major investments.
Reports are made to the Board on findings at Group, CSG and Asset organisational levels.
Tolerance criteria by the Investment Committee in relation to major capital projects.
additionally assess the control effectiveness of material risks.
The Disclosure Committee oversees the Groups compliance The diagram below outlines the risk reporting process.
with securities dealing and continuous and periodic disclosure requirements, including reviewing information that may require disclosure through stock exchanges and overseeing processes to ensure information disclosed is timely, accurate and complete.
BOARD BOARD BOARD SUSTAINABILITY RAC COMMITTEE HSEC only Half-yearly GMC GROUP GROUP BUSINESS GROUP CSG ASSET RISK PROFILE RISK PROFILE RACs RISK PROFILES RISK PROFILES REVIEW consolidated Half-yearly CSG GROUP FUNCTION RISK MANAGEMENT RISKS PLAN 128 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012
