3 Management of principal risks The scope of our operations and the number of industries in which we operate and engage mean that a range of factors may impact our results.
Material risks that could negatively affect our results and performance are described in section 1.5.
Our approach to managing these risks is outlined below.
Principal risk area Risk management approach External risks The diversification of our portfolio of commodities, geographies and currencies is a key strategy for reducing volatility.
Section 3.4 describes Risks arise from fluctuations in commodity prices and currency exchange external factors and trends affecting our results and Note 28 to the rates, demand changes in major markets such as China or Europe financial statements outlines the Groups financial risk management or actions by governments and political events that impact long-term strategy, including market, commodity, and currency risk.
Risk Management Committee oversees these as described in section 5.15.
We engage with governments and other key stakeholders to ensure the potential impacts of proposed fiscal, tax, resource investment, infrastructure access and regulatory changes are understood and where possible mitigated.
Business risks We support our growth strategy through minerals and petroleum exploration programs which are focused on identifying and capturing Our continued growth creates risks related to identifying and proving new world-class projects supported by exploration activity adjacent reserves, integrating newly acquired businesses, managing our capital to existing operations.
The Group Resource and Business Optimisation development projects and attracting and retaining the people necessary function provides governance and technical leadership for resource to support our growth.
development and Ore Reserves reporting as described in section 2.13.2 Reserves and Resources and section 2.6 Group Resources and Business Optimisation.
Our Petroleum reserves are described in section 2.13.1.
We have established investment processes and tollgates that apply to all major capital and mergers and acquisitions projects.
The Investment Committee oversees these as described in section 5.15.
The Project Management function additionally ensures that the optimum framework and capabilities are in place to deliver safe, predictable and competitive projects.
Additionally we have established project hubs as operating centres for the study and execution of a pipeline of major capital projects using a program management approach.
Group-wide human resource processes are established covering recruitment planning, diversity, remuneration, development and mobility of staff to ensure we continue to maintain a strong diversified global talent pool.
Financial risks We seek to maintain a solid A credit rating, supported by our portfolio risk management strategy.
As part of this strategy, commodity prices and Continued volatility in global financial markets may adversely impact currency exchange rates are not hedged and, wherever possible we take future cash flows, the ability to adequately access and source capital the prevailing market price, which serves to mitigate counterparty from financial markets and our credit rating.
This may impact planned performance risk.
We use cash flow at risk analysis to monitor volatilities expenditures as well as the ability to recover investments in mining and key financial ratios.
Credit limits and review processes are established and oil and gas projects.
In addition, the commercial counterparties for all customers and financial counterparties.
The Financial Risk customers, suppliers and financial institutions we transact with may, Management Committee oversees these as described in section 5.15. due to adverse market conditions, not meet their obligations.
Note 28 to the financial statements outlines our financial risk management strategy.
Operational risks We seek to ensure that adequate operating margins are maintained through our strategy to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost Operating cost pressures, reduced productivity and labour shortages and expandable upstream assets.
We have implemented an Operating could negatively impact operating margins and expansion plans.
Model designed to deliver a simple and scalable organisation, providing Non-controlled assets may not comply with our standards.
Unexpected a competitive advantage through defining work, organisation and natural and operational catastrophes may adversely impact our performance measurement.
Defined global business processes, including operations.
Breaches in information technology IT security processes 1SAP, provide a standardised way of working across the organisation.
may adversely impact the conduct of our business activities.
Common processes generate reliable data and improve operating discipline.
Global sourcing arrangements have been established to ensure continuity of supply and competitive costs for key supply inputs.
We seek to influence non-controlled assets to apply to our standards.
Through the application of our risk management processes, we identify material catastrophic operational risks and implement the critical controls and performance requirements to maintain control effectiveness.
Business continuity plans are established to mitigate consequences.
Consistent with our portfolio risk management approach, we continue to be largely self-insured for losses arising from property damage, business interruption and construction.
We maintain appropriate IT security devices, perimeter monitoring and mobile device protective measures.
Security crisis management, incident management and service continuity and disaster recovery plans are established.
