7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information BHP Billiton is committed to building and maintaining a diverse 7.7 Indemnities and insurance continued workforce and providing a work environment in which every We have insured against amounts that we may be liable to pay employee is treated fairly and with respect.
We work actively to Directors, Company Secretaries or certain employees pursuant to to avoid discrimination on any basis, including disability.
Where an Rule 146 of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and Article 146 employee suffers some disability while they are employed, we work of the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc or that we otherwise to identify roles that meet their skill, experience and capability, and agree to pay by way of indemnity.
The insurance policy also insures in some cases offer retraining.
We also offer flexible work practices, Directors, Company Secretaries and some employees against certain where this is possible, taking into account the needs of the liabilities including legal costs they may incur in carrying out their employee and those of the particular workplace.
Our remuneration duties for us.
policy and employment packages, which must comply with local regulations, are based on merit, aligned to our business We have paid premiums for this Directors and Officers insurance requirements and sufficiently attractive to recruit and retain of US$2,334,750 net during FY2012.
Directors, Company Secretaries the best people.
and employees insured under the policy contribute to the premium for this insurance.
Our employees can access our Annual Reports either via the No indemnity in favour of a current or former officer of internet or hard copy.
BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc, or in favour of the External Auditor, has been called on during FY2012.
7.9 Environmental performance Particulars in relation to environmental performance are referred 7.8 Employee policies and involvement to in sections 2.8 and 7.22 of this Annual Report and in the Sustainability Report, available at www.
We are committed to open, honest and productive relationships with our employees.
At BHP Billiton, we recognise the most important ingredient for success is our talented and motivated 7.10 Corporate Governance workforce, whose members demonstrate behaviours that are aligned to Our BHP Billiton Charter values.
The UK Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 require that certain information be included in a We have an integrated people strategy to effectively attract, corporate governance statement set out in the Directors Report.
retain and develop talented people.
Our approach is outlined BHP Billiton has an existing practice of issuing a separate corporate in our Human Resources Policy, the BHP Billiton Code of Business governance statement as part of its Annual Report.
The information Conduct and the Group Level Documents GLDs that prescribe required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the UK what we will do and how we will do it.
All of these documents Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
6 is located are published and accessible to employees.
in section 5 of this Annual Report, with the exception of the Effective communication and employee engagement is critical information referred to in DTR 7.2.
6, which is located in section for maintaining open and productive relationships between 7.23 of this Annual Report.
Employees receive communication on BHP Billiton goals and performance, as well as on important 7.11 Dividends issues such as health and safety and the environment and the Code of Business Conduct.
Our Code of Business Conduct is founded A final dividend of 57 US cents per share will be paid on on Our Charter values, which make an unqualified commitment 28 September 2012.
Details of the dividends paid and the dividend to working with integrity.
Communication is undertaken through policy are set out in sections 3.7.
6 and 11.3 of this Annual Report.
a variety of channels, including the internet, intranet, email, newsletters and other means designed to cater for the local 7.12 Auditors environment.
These tools are also used to facilitate employee feedback, as are a variety of consultative processes.
Dispute and A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as the auditor of grievance handling processes are also in place to assist in equitably BHP Billiton Plc will be proposed at the 2012 Annual General addressing workplace issues in all businesses.
A Business Conduct Meetings in accordance with section 489 of the UK Companies Advisory Service operates worldwide to allow concerns to be Act 2006. raised about conduct that is out of step with Our Charter values, A copy of the declaration given by our External Auditor to our policies and procedures or the law.
the Directors in relation to the auditors compliance with the Our all-employee share purchase plan, Shareplus, is available independence requirements of the Australian Corporations to all permanent full-time and part-time employees, and those on Act 2001 and the professional code of conduct for External fixed-term contracts, except where local regulations limit operation Auditors is set out in section 9.5 of this Annual Report.
In these instances, alternative arrangements are Mr Maxsted was the only officer of BHP Billiton during in place.
As at 30 June 2012, 22,864 employees, or approximately FY2012 who was a director or partner of the Groups External 46.5 per cent of those eligible for the April 2012 offer, were Auditor at a time when the Groups External Auditor conducted participants in Shareplus.
The Shareplus employee plan is described an audit of the Group.
Mr Maxsteds prior relationship with KPMG in section 6.8.
Short-term and long-term is set out in section 5.9 of this Annual Report.
Mr Maxsted was not incentive schemes also operate across the Group.
Rewards for part of the KPMG audit practice after 1980 and, while at KPMG, individuals are predicated on the need to meet targets relating was not in any way involved in, or able to influence, any audit to our Companys performance in areas such as health, safety activity associated with BHP Billiton.
and achievement of financial measures and on the personal performance of each employee.
Each person who held the office of Director at the date the Board resolved to approve this Directors Report makes the Our performance management process aligns individual following statements: performance to our strategic and operational priorities as well as ensuring that individual and team performance is recognised.
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Our leaders are accountable for providing constructive feedback information of which the Groups External Auditor is unaware: and identifying development needs to help our employees maximise the Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken their performance and realise their full potential.
In FY2012, as a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit 75 per cent of employees participated in a formal performance review information and to establish that the Groups External Auditor process.
Due to industrial agreements, not all employees are able is aware of that information.
to participate in individual performance reviews.
The importance we place on employee development and training is demonstrated by the significant amount of training our employees undertake.
