1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report in 2011 Mr Crawford stepped down from the role of Risk and Audit 5.8 Director induction training Committee Chairman.
However, he continues to make a valuable and development continued contribution to the work of the Board, in particular in his role as The Nomination Committee oversees the Directors Training Finance Committee Chairman.
The benefit of this approach is that Dr Schubert was first elected to the Board of BHP Limited in 2000. induction and learning opportunities can be tailored to Directors The Board is of the view that Dr Schubert continues to make committee memberships, as well as the Boards specific areas a valuable contribution, through his role as Chairman of the of focus.
In addition, this approach ensures a coordinated process Sustainability Committee, his roles on the Remuneration and in relation to succession planning, Board renewal, training and Nomination Committees, as well as to the work of the Board development and committee composition, which are all relevant more broadly.
Dr Schuberts extensive experience, as an executive to the Nomination Committees role in securing the supply particularly in the international oil industry and subsequently of talent to the Board.
as a public company director across multiple industries, adds In addition, each Board committee provides a standing invitation significantly to the skills and expertise of the Board.
for any Non-executive Director to attend committee meetings Sir John was first appointed to the Board and as Senior Independent rather than just limiting attendance to committee members.
The Board believes that he continues Committee agendas are provided to all Directors to ensure that to act independently in the best interests of the Group.
His expertise Directors are aware of matters to be considered by the committees and broad international experience materially enhance the skills and can elect to attend meetings where appropriate.
and experience profile of the Board and he continues to make a substantial contribution in his roles, as a member of the Board, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, a member of the 5.9 Independence Nomination Committee and as Senior Independent Director.
The Board is committed to ensuring a majority of Directors are The Board does not believe that Mr Crawfords, Dr Schuberts independent.
The Board considers that all the current Non-executive or Sir Johns tenure materially interferes with their ability to act in Directors, including the Chairman, are independent.
the best interests of the Group.
The Board also believes that each Process to determine independence of them has retained independence of character and judgement The Board has a policy that it uses to determine the independence and has not formed associations with management or others that of its Directors.
This determination is carried out upon appointment, might compromise their ability to exercise independent judgement annually and at any other time where the circumstances of a Director or act in the best interests of the Group.
change such as to warrant reconsideration.
Retirement plan As former Directors of BHP Limited, Mr Crawford and Dr Schubert participated in a retirement plan approved by shareholders in 1989.
A copy of the Policy on Independence of Directors The plan was closed on 24 October 2003.
Benefits accrued to that is available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com home date, together with interest earned on the benefits, have been aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
preserved and will be paid on retirement.
The Board does not believe that the independence of any participating Director is Under the policy, an independent Director is one who is: compromised as a result of this plan.
independent of management and any business or other Relationships and associations relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of objective, unfettered or independent judgement by the Lindsay Maxsted was the CEO of KPMG in Australia from 2001 Director or the Directors ability to act in the best interests until 2007.
The Board considers that this prior relationship with of the BHP Billiton Group.
KPMG does not materially interfere with Mr Maxsteds exercise of objective, unfettered or independent judgement, or his ability Where a Director is considered by the Board to be independent, to act in the best interests of the BHP Billiton Group.
The Board but is affected by circumstances that appear relevant to the has determined, consistent with its policy on the independence Boards assessment of independence, the Board has undertaken of Directors, that Mr Maxsted is independent.
The Board notes to explain the reasons why it reached its conclusion.
In applying in particular that: the independence test, the Board considers relationships with at the time of his appointment to the Board, more than three management, major shareholders, subsidiary and associated years had elapsed since Mr Maxsteds retirement from KPMG.
companies and other parties with whom the Group transacts The Director independence rules and guidelines that apply business against predetermined materiality thresholds, all of to the Group which are a combination of Australian, UK and which are set out in the policy.
A summary of the factors that US rules and guidelines all use three years as the benchmark may be perceived to impact the independence of Directors cooling off period for former audit firm partners: is set out below.
Mr Maxsted has no financial e. g. pension, retainer or advisory Tenure fee or consulting arrangements with KPMG: Three Directors, David Crawford, John Schubert and John Buchanan, Mr Maxsted was not part of the KPMG audit practice after 1980 have each served on the Board for more than nine years.
Mr Crawford, and, while at KPMG, was not in any way involved in, or able to Dr Schubert and Sir John are standing for re-election at the 2012 influence, any audit activity associated with BHP Billiton.
AGMs, having each undergone a formal performance assessment.
The Board considers Mr Maxsteds financial acumen and extensive Although Mr Crawford was first appointed to the BHP Limited Board experience in the corporate restructuring field to be important in 1994, the Board considers that he makes a significant contribution in the discharge of the Boards responsibilities.
His membership to the work of the Board and that his deep knowledge of the of the Board and Chairmanship of the RAC are considered by the Group is particularly important when a significant proportion Board to be appropriate and desirable.
of the Non-executive Directors have between zero to three years tenure.
Following an extensive succession planning process, BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 117
