7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information from the recognition in the accounts of items of revenue and expense 1 Principal accounting policies in periods different to those in which they are taxable or deductible Basis of accounting for corporation tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are The BHP Billiton Plc entity accounts are prepared in accordance with measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the timing the UK Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK Generally Accepted differences are expected to reverse.
Accounting Practice UK GAAP using the historical cost convention A deferred tax asset is recognised for unused tax losses, tax credits which have been applied on a consistent basis with the year ended and deductible timing differences to the extent that it is probable 30 June 2011. that future taxable profits will be available against which they can The Company has applied the exemption within FRS 29 Financial be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date Instruments: Disclosures available to parent entity accounts presented and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the in consolidated financial statements that are publicly available where related tax benefit will be realised.
disclosures are presented on a group basis.
The Groups financial risk management disclosures are presented in note 28 of the consolidated Share-based payments financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out in note 1 of the consolidated financial statements of the BHP Billiton Foreign currencies Group and is applied with respect to all rights and options granted over The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out in BHP Billiton Plc shares including those granted to employees of other note 1 of the consolidated financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
However, the cost of rights and options granted is recovered from subsidiaries of the Group where the participants Investments are employed.
Details of the Employee Share Ownership Plans and the Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions for Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust the Trust are contained impairments.
Fixed asset investments are assessed to ensure carrying in note 32 of the consolidated financial statements of the BHP Billiton amounts do not exceed estimated recoverable amounts.
BHP Billiton Plc is the Trusts sponsoring company and so the amount of each income generating unit is reviewed at least annually financial statements of BHP Billiton Plc represent the combined to evaluate whether the carrying amount is recoverable, or more financial statements of the Company and the Trust.
regularly if an event or change in circumstances indicates that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
If the asset Revenue recognition is determined to be impaired, an impairment loss will be recorded Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Dividend income and the asset written down based on the amount by which the asset is recognised on declaration by subsidiaries.
carrying amount exceeds the higher of net realisable value and value Treasury shares in use.
Value in use is generally determined by discounting expected future cash flows using a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate The consideration paid for the repurchase of BHP Billiton Plc shares appropriate to the risks inherent in the asset.
which are held as treasury shares is recognised as a reduction in shareholders funds and represents a reduction in distributable reserves.
Deferred taxation Tax-effect accounting is applied in respect of corporation tax.
Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits Full provision is made for deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out in assets that represent the tax effect of timing differences which arise note 1 of the consolidated financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
2 Fixed assets At 30 June 2012 the Company held an investment of US$3,131 million 2011: US$3,131 million in BHP Billiton Group Ltd which represents 100 per cent of the ordinary shares on issue and US$0.1 million 2011: US$0.1 million in BHP Billiton Finance Plc which represents 99 per cent of the ordinary shares on issue.
BHP Billiton Group Ltd and BHP Billiton Finance Plc are included in the consolidation of the BHP Billiton Group.
3 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 2012 2011 US$M US$M a Amounts owed to Group undertakings 126 1,015 Accruals 4 2 Total creditors 130 1,017 a The audit fee payable in respect of the audit of the BHP Billiton Plc parent company financial statements was a nominal amount refer to note 34 of the BHP Billiton Group financial statements for fees for the Group as a whole.
This has been included within amounts owed to Group undertakings.
4 Provisions for liabilities and charges Pension Employee liabilities benefits Total US$M US$M US$M At 1 July 2011 11 23 34 Charge for the year 1 12 13 Actuarial loss taken to profit and loss account reserve 2 2 Employer contributions 1 1 Utilisation 4 4 At 30 June 2012 13 31 44 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 247
