Energy Coal Underlying EBIT for FY2012 increased by US$98 million to US$1.2 billion.
Annual production records were Ian Maxwell achieved at Cerrejn Coal in Colombia and New South President, Energy Coal Wales Energy Coal.
US$ million Annual production records were achieved at two of BHP Billitons export-oriented operations, Cerrejn Coal in Colombia and Revenue 6,022 New South Wales Energy Coal.
The RX1 Project at New South Underlying EBIT 1,227 Wales Energy Coal delivered first production during the June Capital expenditure 893 2012 quarter, significantly ahead of schedule.
This project Net operating assets 4,431 capitalises on strong demand for high ash coal in our key growth markets.
Underlying EBIT for FY2012 increased by US$98 million to US$1.2 billion.
Stronger volumes and The RX1 Project at New South Wales a higher proportion of export sales, largely associated with improved rail performance at BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Energy Coal delivered first production Africa, in South Africa, and the accelerated expansion of ahead of schedule New South Wales Energy Coal, increased Underlying EBIT by US$152 million in the period.
Higher average realised prices, most notably at Cerrejn Coal, contributed to a US$95 million increase in Underlying EBIT, net of price-linked costs.
During FY2012, BHP Billiton approved a further eight million tonnes per annum 100 per cent basis expansion of the Cerrejn Coal mine.
Marketing growth and these are beginning to flow through to economic Our objectives are to consistently move to market all of our activity.
In the United States, there are also encouraging signs products, achieve prevailing market prices at the time of delivery, that the housing market has stabilised and begun to improve, manage credit and price risk in a disciplined fashion and to do which may translate into upside for the worlds largest economy so as cost efficiently as possible.
as it supports consumer and business confidence.
FY2012 saw an overall increase in sales volumes as a result of Our long-run economic outlook remains unchanged.
Urbanisation strong production performance, most notably in our Iron Ore and industrialisation across the developing world will continue CSG, and the addition of our new onshore petroleum businesses to be the primary drivers of global economic growth.
While growth in the United States.
The Marketing team successfully navigated rates are expected to decline in China as its economy matures, the risks posed by the increased market volatility, while continuing given the higher starting base, total absolute economic growth to support our operating assets by moving all of our production is expected to be higher in the decade ahead than the decade to market and securing market prices.
Total global Gross Domestic Product is expected to increase its progress towards shorter pricing periods more closely aligned by 60 per cent on a purchasing price parity basis between now with the market at the time of delivery.
Particularly notable was and 2025 and this strong growth in economic activity will drive the establishment of two iron ore physical electronic transaction continuing strong absolute demand growth for commodities.
platforms with the support of a broad cross-section of industry As has been seen in other major economies, as the Chinese participants, continuing the trend towards greater market economy continues to grow GDP per capita, it can be expected liquidity and pricing transparency for this commodity.
that the relative rates of growth in its demand for the various commodities will continue to evolve, as it transitions from As global economic growth slowed and concerns surrounding the investment to consumption led growth, and long-run demand economic outlook increased, prices for many of our commodities growth will be most durable for the middle income commodities.
decreased during the course of the year.
The deceleration of BHP Billitons diversified portfolio of assets and growth options demand growth was compounded by improved supply for some position us well for the continued strong growth in demand commodities.
Looking ahead, we are beginning to see some and the continued shift in relative commodity intensities.
positive indicators of the potential for improving growth in the first half of FY2013.
These include in China, where the government has taken measured steps aimed at stabilising and supporting BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2012 | 17 Escondida Chile We are successful when we put health and safety first, are environmentally responsible and support our communities.
When we do, our stakeholders value their relationships with us.
Operating sustainably underpins everything we do.
Our ability to operate globally is dependent upon gaining access to natural resources and maintaining our licence to operate.
Sustainable development is core to our business strategy: we integrate health, safety, environmental, social and economic factors into our decision-making.
We consider our stakeholders varied needs and work with them to create lasting benefits in the communities in which we operate.
We are successful when communities, customers and suppliers value their relationships with us.
Olympic Dam Australia Zamzama Pakistan 18 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2012 New South Wales Energy Coal Australia BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance Australia Newman Australia Mozal Mozambique BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2012 | 19
