5 Corporate Governance Statement continued Executive Director 5.9 Independence continued The Executive Director, Marius Kloppers, is not considered Mr Crawford was a partner of KPMG in Australia until his independent because of his executive responsibilities.
Mr Kloppers retirement in June 2001.
He has had no relationship with KPMG does not hold directorships in any other company included in the since that time and the Board does not consider Mr Crawfords ASX 100 or FTSE 100. independence to be compromised as a result of this association Conflicts of interest that ended more than 11 years ago.
The UK Companies Act requires that BHP Billiton Directors avoid Carolyn Hewson was, until 30 June 2012, a Non-executive a situation where they have, or can have, an unauthorised direct Director of Westpac Banking Corporation and Lindsay Maxsted is or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the a Non-executive Director and the Chairman of Westpac Banking Companys interests, unless approved by non-interested Directors.
Until 30 June 2012, Mr Maxsted and Ms Hewson In accordance with the UK Companies Act, BHP Billiton Plcs each served on Westpacs Nominations and Risk Management Articles of Association allow the Directors to authorise conflicts Committees.
The Board has assessed this cross directorship and and potential conflicts where appropriate.
A procedure operates concluded that it does not interfere with the Directors exercise to ensure the disclosure of conflicts and for the consideration of objective, unfettered or independent judgement or the Directors and, if appropriate, the authorisation of them by non-conflicted ability to act in the Groups best interests.
In any event, Ms Hewson Directors.
The Nomination Committee supports the Board retired as a Non-executive Director of Westpac from 30 June 2012. in this process, both by reviewing requests from Directors for Some of the Directors hold or previously held positions in companies authorisation of situations of actual or potential conflict and with which we have commercial relationships.
Those positions making recommendations to the Board, and by regularly reviewing and companies are set out in section 4.1 of this Annual Report.
any situations of actual or potential conflict that have previously The Board has assessed all of the relationships between the Group been authorised by the Board, and making recommendations and companies in which Directors hold or held positions and has regarding whether the authorisation remains appropriate.
concluded that in all cases the relationships do not interfere with In addition, in accordance with Australian law, if a situation the Directors exercise of objective, unfettered or independent arises for consideration in which a Director has a material personal judgement or their ability to act in the best interests of our business.
interest, the affected Director takes no part in decision-making.
A specific instance is Malcolm Broomhead, who is a Non-executive Director of Coates Group Holdings Pty Limited, a company with 5.10 Board evaluation which BHP Billiton has commercial dealings.
Coates Group provides equipment hire to the mining and resources industry among others.
The Board is committed to transparency in determining Board Prior to and since the appointment of Mr Broomhead as a Director membership and in assessing the performance of Directors.
of BHP Billiton, the Board has assessed the relationship between The Board evaluates its performance through a combination BHP Billiton and Coates Group and remains satisfied that of both internal peer and externally facilitated assessments.
Mr Broomhead is able to apply objective, unfettered and independent Contemporary performance measures are considered an important judgement and act in the best interests of BHP Billiton.
In addition, part of this process.
Directors performance is also measured no commercial dealings with Coates Group were discussed at Board against their individual development plans.
or Board Committee level, and to the extent they are in the future, The Board conducts regular evaluations of its performance, Mr Broomhead will absent himself fully from those deliberations.
the performance of its committees, the Chairman, individual Transactions during the year that amounted to related-party Directors and the governance processes that support the Boards transactions with Directors or Director-related entities under work.
The Board evaluation process comprises both assessment International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are and review, as summarised in the diagram below.
This includes outlined in note 30 Key Management Personnel to the analysis of how the Board and its Directors are functioning, financial statements.
the time spent by the Board considering matters and whether the terms of reference of the Board committees have been met, as well as compliance with the Board Governance Document.
Evaluation process ASSESSMENT REVIEW Year one: Each year, review of: Committee and individual Director assessment.
Board and committees for compliance Year two: with the Board Governance Document Whole Board assessment.
and committee terms of reference.
May be internally or externally facilitated assessment.
An externally facilitated assessment of the Board or Directors and committees takes place at least every two years.
118 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Committee assessment 5.10 Board evaluation continued At the end of FY2011, each committee retained the services of an The assessment of the Boards performance is conducted by focusing external adviser JCA Group, a UK-based provider of board evaluation on individual Directors and Board committees in one year and the services that has no other connections with the BHP Billiton Group Board as a whole in the following year.
In addition, each year the to assist with an assessment of the committees effectiveness, and Board, with the assistance of the Nomination Committee, conducts this assessment continued into FY2012.
The assessments indicated a review of the performance of each Director seeking re-election that the Boards committees continue to function effectively and and uses the results of that review when considering whether in accordance with their terms of reference.
to recommend the re-election of each Director.
As the Board has adopted a policy of annual election, this effectively means that all Director assessment Directors are subject to performance review annually should they During FY2011, an external adviser Heidrick and Struggles, wish to remain on the Board.
Leadership Consulting Practice was retained in relation to the assessment of each Director, and this assessment continued Directors provide anonymous feedback on their peers performance into FY2012.
Although Heidrick and Struggles Executive Search and individual contributions to the Board, which is passed on to Practice also provides services in respect of Board renewal, the relevant Director via the Chairman.
In respect of the Chairmans the Leadership Consulting Practice and the Executive Search performance, Directors provide feedback directly to John Schubert Practice operate independently.
to be passed on anonymously to the Chairman.
External independent advisers are engaged to assist these processes as necessary, The process involves each Director, including the Chairman and and an externally facilitated assessment of the Board, Directors or CEO, being interviewed by the external facilitator.
The interview committees takes place at least every two years.
The involvement considers each Directors contribution and the value they bring of an independent third party has assisted in ensuring that the to the work of the Board.
It also provides the opportunity for each evaluation processes are both rigorous and fair.
Director to provide comments and feedback on fellow Directors, as well as their views on the focus of the Board.
Director evaluation The evaluation of individual Directors focuses on the contribution The overall findings are presented to the Board and discussed.
of the Director to the work of the Board and the expectations Each Director is provided with feedback on their individual of Directors as specified in the Groups governance framework.
and collective contribution to the Board and its committees.
The performance of individual Directors is assessed against Board review a range of criteria, including the ability of the Director to: As the assessment completed in FY2012 focused on individual consistently take the perspective of creating shareholder value: Directors and Board committees, a short form review of the Board contribute to the development of strategy: as a whole was conducted to assess compliance with the Board understand the major risks affecting the business: Governance Document, time spent by the Board in considering provide clear direction to management: matters and compliance with corporate governance requirements.
contribute to Board cohesion: The review of the Board as a whole indicated that the Board commit the time required to fulfil the role and perform their is continuing to function effectively and in accordance with the responsibilities effectively: Board Governance Document.
listen to and respect the ideas of fellow Directors and members Internal Board process enhancements of management.
Over the past two years, a number of enhancements have Board effectiveness been made to the internal processes surrounding Board The effectiveness of the Board as a whole and of its committees meetings as a result of evaluations.
is assessed against the accountabilities set down in the Board Chairmans matters: In the past, the Board held a closed session Governance Document and each of the committees terms at the end of Board meetings.
An additional closed session has of reference.
Matters considered in evaluations include: been incorporated so that all Board meetings start with a closed session of all Directors there are no members of the GMC present the effectiveness of discussion and debate at Board and committee meetings: other than the Executive Director.
This allows the Chairman to outline matters to be considered by the Board and set the context the effectiveness of the Boards and committees processes for the meeting.
It is also an opportunity for Directors to raise the and relationship with management: items of business they believe should be particularly considered the quality and timeliness of meeting agendas, Board and or any other relevant issues.
committee papers and secretariat support: Assurance items: The Board agenda provides more time for the composition of the Board and each committee, focusing reports from the committee chairmen to the Board.
This ensures on the blend of skills, experience, independence and knowledge that the Board is properly and formally informed of the work of the Group and its diversity, including geographic location, of its committees and relevant committee papers are also nationality and gender.
Where it is considered appropriate, The process is managed by the Chairman, but feedback on the presentations made to committees are also presented to the Chairmans performance is provided to him by Dr Schubert.
Information about the performance review process for executives Training and development sessions are scheduled during the Board meeting program.
Closed session: Directors continue to have the opportunity to Evaluations conducted in FY2012 raise matters during the closed session at the end of each Board During the year, with the assistance of an external adviser, meeting, which is attended only by the Non-executive Directors.
recommendations were implemented from the assessment of each Board committee that was finalised in FY2012.
An assessment of each Director was also completed.
Enhancements identified from previous years evaluations have continued to be implemented.
