1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Information on Manganese mining operations continued Mine Type & Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Use Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source & Condition Manganese ore continued Groote Eylandt Mining Company Pty Ltd GEMCO Groote Eylandt, Ore transported BHP Billiton 60% BHP Billiton All leases on Commissioned Open-cut On-site diesel Beneficiation Northern from concentrator Aboriginal land 1965 power process: crushing, Anglo American Sandstone Territory, by road train held under generation screening, washing 40% claystone Australia to port at Aboriginal Land and dense media sedimentary Milner Bay Rights Northern separation Manganese ore Territory Act 1976 type Produces lump Valid until 2031 and fines products Capacity: 4.2 wet mtpa Information on Manganese smelters, refineries and processing plants Smelter, Refinery or Title, Leases Nominal Production Processing Plant Location Ownership Operator or Options Product Capacity Power source Manganese alloy Metalloys Manganese alloy plant Meyerton, BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Freehold title over Manganese 400 ktpa high-carbon Eskom division of Samancor South Africa 60% property, plant alloys including ferromanganese 30 MW of internal power Manganese Pty Ltd and equipment high-carbon including hot metal Anglo American generated from furnace ferromanganese, 90 ktpa medium- 40% off-gases refined carbon ferromanganese medium-carbon ferromanganese alloy Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Company Pty Ltd TEMCO Manganese alloy plant Bell Bay, BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Freehold title over Ferroalloys, 130 ktpa high-carbon Aurora Energy Tasmania, 60% property, plant including high-carbon ferromanganese On-site energy recovery Australia and equipment ferromanganese, 125 ktpa unit generates 11 MW Anglo American silicomanganese silicomanganese for internal use 40% and sinter 350 ktpa sinter The M14 furnace will contribute to power efficiency at the Development projects Metalloys site as it will add to the sites own generation capacity GEMCO expansion utilising the furnace off-gases.
Completion of the furnace is The partners in Samancor Manganese approved the second expected during FY2013.
expansion of the GEMCO Operation in the Northern Territory of Australia in July 2011.
This follows the successful commissioning Samancor Gabon Manganese project of the GEMCO expansion phase 1 GEEP1 project in April 2009.
A feasibility study for the establishment of a new 300 ktpa mine The US$279 million GEEP2 project BHP Billiton share US$167 million in Franceville, Gabon, commenced in July 2010.
The project has has commenced and will increase GEMCOs beneficiated product experienced delays in concluding key agreements and has been capacity from 4.2 mtpa to 4.8 mtpa through the introduction placed under review.
of a dense media circuit by-pass facility.
9 Metallurgical Coal Customer Sector Group to be completed in late CY2013.
The expansion will also address Our Metallurgical Coal CSG is the worlds largest supplier infrastructure constraints by increasing road and port capacity of seaborne metallurgical coal.
Metallurgical coal, along with to 5.9 mtpa, creating 1.1 mtpa of additional capacity for iron ore and manganese, is a key input in the production of steel.
Our export customers are steel producers around the world.
HMM In FY2012, most of our contracts were annual or long-term Due to subsurface challenges experienced, which impacted progress volume contracts with prices largely negotiated on a quarterly and budget, the central block development project at Wessels was or monthly basis.
The US$92 million Phase 1 project will be completed in FY2014.
It will comprise the construction of the ventilation shaft and We have assets in two major resource basins: the Bowen Basin development of the associated underground ventilation network.
in Central Queensland, Australia, and the Illawarra region of Phase 2 of the project is in the feasibility phase and will comprise New South Wales, Australia.
the completion of the underground crusher and mobile workshops.
Bowen Basin Upon completion of Phases 1 and 2, the Wessels mine capacity The Bowen Basin is well positioned to supply the seaborne market will increase from 1 mtpa to 1.5 mtpa.
because of its high-quality metallurgical coals, which are ideally Metalloys suited to efficient blast furnace operations, and its geographical The High-Carbon Ferromanganese HCFeMn furnace M14 at the proximity to Asian customers.
Metalloys West Plant was approved for execution in November 2010 We also have access to key infrastructure, including a modern, with a total approved investment of US$91 million US$54.6 million integrated electric rail network and our own coal loading terminal BHP Billiton share.
This furnace will add an additional 130 ktpa at Hay Point, Mackay.
This infrastructure enables us to maximise capacity 100 per cent or about 78 ktpa BHP Billiton share of throughput and blending of products from multiple mines to optimise HCFeMn and replace the closed South Plant silicomanganese the value of our production and satisfy customer requirements.
capacity of 120 ktpa, to take Metalloys capacity to 500 ktpa.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 35 2 Information on the Company continued in April 2012, BMA announced the intention to cease production 2.2.
9 Metallurgical Coal Customer Sector Group continued at Norwich Park mine indefinitely, following a review of the mines Our Bowen Basin mines are owned through a series of joint viability.
On 10 September 2012, BMA announced its intention ventures.
We share 5050 ownership with Mitsubishi Development to cease production at its Gregory open-cut mine, part of the Pty Ltd in BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance BMA, which operates Gregory Crinum complex, from 10 October 2012. the Goonyella Riverside, Broadmeadow, Peak Downs, Saraji, Norwich Park production ceased, Blackwater and Gregory Production figures for the Bowen Basin include some energy coal Crinum mines, together with the Hay Point Coal terminal through less than five per cent.
the Central Queensland Coal Associates CQCA joint venture and lllawarra the Gregory joint venture.
Our BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal BMC Asset We own and operate three underground coal mines in the Illawarra operates South Walker Creek and Poitrel mines.
BMC is owned region of New South Wales, which supply metallurgical coal to by BHP Billiton 80 per cent and Mitsui and Co 20 per cent.
the nearby BlueScope Port Kembla steelworks, and other domestic The reserve lives of our mines range from four years at Gregory and export markets.
Total production in FY2012 was approximately Crinum to 40 years at Saraji.
Total attributable production in 7.9 Mt compared with 6.9 Mt in FY2011.
The reserve lives of FY2012 was approximately 25.3 Mt compared with 25.7 Mt our mines range from four years at West Cliff to 31 years at Appin.
Production in FY2012 was largely constrained Production figures for Illawarra include some energy coal less than by industrial action and severe wet weather.
Information on Metallurgical Coal mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
The tables should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserves tables see section 2.13.2.
Mine Type & Mine & Means of Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Use Location Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source & Condition Metallurgical coal Central Queensland Coal Associates CQCA joint venture Bowen Basin, Public road BHP Billiton 50% BMA Mining leases, Goonyella mine All open-cut except Queensland On-site Queensland, including undeveloped commenced Broadmeadow: electricity grid beneficiation Coal transported Mitsubishi Australia tenements, expire 1971, merged longwall facilities by rail to Hay Development between 20122037, with adjoining underground Goonyella Point and 50% Combined nominal renewable for further Riverside mine Riverside, Gladstone ports Bituminous coal capacity: in excess periods as Queensland 1989 Peak Downs, is mined from the of 53.5 mtpa Government Operates as Saraji, Permian Moranbah Hay Point Coal legislation allows Goonyella Norwich Park, and Rangal Coal terminal Riverside Blackwater and Mining is permitted measures Broadmeadow to continue under the Production Products range from mines legislation during the commenced: premium-quality, renewal application Peak Downs low volatile, high period.
Applications 1972 vitrinite, hard coking have been lodged to Saraji 1974 coal to medium renew mining leases Norwich Park volatile hard coking expiring in 2012 1979 coal, to weak coking Blackwater 1967 coal, and some Broadmeadow medium ash thermal longwall coal as a by-product operations 2005 Gregory joint venture Bowen Basin, Public road BHP Billiton BMA Mining leases, Production Gregory: open-cut Queensland On-site Queensland, 50% including undeveloped commenced: electricity grid beneficiation Coal transported Crinum: longwall Australia tenements, expire Gregory 1979 processing facility by rail to Hay Mitsubishi underground between 20142027, Gregory and Point and Development Crinum mine Nominal capacity: Bituminous coal renewable for further Crinum mines Gladstone ports 50% longwall 1997 in excess of 5 mtpa is mined from the periods as Queensland Production at Permian German Government Gregory mine Creek Coal measures legislation allows to cease from Product is a high 10 October 2012 volatile, low ash hard coking coal, and a medium ash thermal coal BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal Pty Limited Bowen Basin, Public road BHP Billiton 80% BMC Mining leases, South Walker Open-cut Queensland South Walker Queensland, including undeveloped Creek electricity grid Creek coal Coal transported Mitsui and Co Bituminous coal Australia tenements expire commenced beneficiated by rail to 20% is mined from the in 2020, renewable 1996 on-site South Walker Hay Point port Permian Rangal for further periods Creek and Poitrel Coal measures Nominal capacity: as Queensland Poitrel mines commenced in excess Produces a range Government 2006 of 3.5 mtpa of coking coal, legislation allows pulverised coal Poitrel mine has injection PCI coal, Red Mountain and thermal coal joint venture products with with adjacent medium to high Millennium Coal phosphorus and mine to share ash properties processing and rail loading facilities Nominal capacity: in excess of 3 mtpa 36 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012
