2 Information on the Company continued of energy-intensive silicomanganese at the Metalloys South plant, 2.2.
7 Iron Ore Customer Sector Group continued South Africa, during the March 2012 quarter.
After extensive Liberia Iron Ore stakeholder consultation and the identification of significant cost BHP Billiton currently has a 100 per cent interest in a Mineral reduction opportunities, in May 2012, we announced our decision Development Agreement with the Government of Liberia.
to restart TEMCO, which is currently in progress and planned to This enables the further exploration and development of our complete in CY2012.
Liberian iron ore mineral leases, each of which are proximate to existing rail and port infrastructure.
Exploration and development Mines of these leases continues, with drilling conducted on select targets.
HMM HMM owns the Mamatwan open-cut mine and the Wessels 2.2.
8 Manganese Customer Sector Group underground mine.
Manganese high-grade ore is particularly Our Manganese CSG produces a combination of ores and alloys valuable to alloy producers because of the value in use from sites in South Africa and Australia.
We are the worlds largest differential over low-grade ore, which is the degree to which producer of manganese ore and one of the top global producers high-grade ore is proportionately more efficient than low-grade of manganese alloy.
Manganese alloy is a key input into the ore in the alloying process.
The ore from these mines only requires steelmaking process.
Manganese high-grade ore is particularly crushing and screening to create saleable product.
In FY2012, the valuable to alloy producers because of the value in use differential total manganese ore production was 3,625 kt, 21 per cent higher over low-grade ore, which is the degree to which high-grade than FY2011 production.
Wessels has a reserve life of 46 years ore is proportionately more efficient than low-grade ore in the and Mamatwan has a reserve life of 21 years.
GEMCO Our strategy is to focus on upstream resource businesses.
As a result of its location near our port facilities and its simple, Manganese alloy smelters are a key conduit of manganese open-cut mining operation, GEMCO is one of the worlds units into steelmaking and enable us to access markets with lowest-cost manganese ore producers.
These simple operations, an optimal mix of ore and alloy, optimise production to best combined with its high-grade ore and relative proximity to suit market conditions and give us technical insight into the Asian export markets, make GEMCO unique among the worlds performance of our ores in smelters.
FY2012 production of manganese ore was Approximately 80 per cent of ore production is sold directly 4,306 kt, five per cent higher than FY2011 production.
GEMCO to external customers and the remainder is used as feedstock has a reserve life of 12 years.
Alloy Plants We own and manage all manganese mining operations and alloy Metalloys plants through joint ventures with Anglo American.
We own The Samancor Manganese Metalloys alloy plant is one of the 60 per cent of the joint ventures.
Our joint venture interests are largest manganese alloy producers in the world.
Due to its held through Samancor Manganese, which operates our global size and access to high-quality feedstock from Hotazel operations, Manganese assets.
In South Africa, Samancor Manganese it is also one of the lowest-cost alloy producers of medium-carbon Pty Ltd owns 74 per cent of Hotazel Manganese Mines Pty ferromanganese.
Metalloys only produces highand medium-carbon Ltd HMM and 100 per cent of the Metalloys division.
This gives ferromanganese, after silicomanganese production ceased due BHP Billiton an effective interest of 44.4 per cent in HMM and to the permanent closure of the energy-intensive Metalloys 60 per cent in Metalloys.
The remaining 26 per cent of HMM South plant in January 2012.
The annual production capacity is owned under the terms of South African Black Economic of silicomanganese was 120 ktpa.
Empowerment BEE legislation, which reflects our commitment TEMCO to economic transformation in South Africa.
In Australia, we own TEMCO is a medium-sized producer of high-carbon 60 per cent of Groote Eylandt Mining Company Pty Ltd GEMCO ferromanganese, silicomanganese and sinter using ore shipped and we have an effective interest of 60 per cent in Tasmanian from GEMCO, primarily using hydroelectric power.
Electro Metallurgical Company Pty Ltd TEMCO through GEMCO, which owns 100 per cent of TEMCO.
In response to challenging market conditions in the manganese alloy industry, we announced the temporary suspension of production at TEMCO, Australia, and the cessation of production Information on Manganese mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
These tables should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserve tables see section 2.13.2.
Mine Type & Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Use Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source & Condition Manganese ore Hotazel Manganese Mines Pty Ltd HMM Kalahari Basin, Public road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Existing New Mamatwan Mamatwan: Eskom Mamatwan South Africa 44.4% Order Rights valid commissioned open-cut national power beneficiation plant: Most ore and until 2035 1964 supplier primary, secondary Mamatwan and sinter products Anglo American Wessels: and tertiary crushing Wessels mines transported 29.6% Wessels underground with associated by rail commissioned Ntsimbintle 9% Banded Iron screening plants 1973 Approximately NCAB 7% Manganese ore Dense medium 33% of ore Iziko 5% type separator and sinter beneficiated HMM Education plant capacity locally, balance Trust 5% 1 1 mtpa sinter exported via Port Elizabeth, Wessels: primary Richards Bay, and secondary Durban crushing circuits with associated 1 screening 1 Capacity: Mamatwan approximately 3.5 mtpa of ore: Wessels approximately 1 mtpa of ore. 34 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012
