1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.10.2 DLC structure continued 2.11.2 Merger Agreement with Petrohawk Joint Electorate Actions Energy Corporation Under the terms of the DLC agreements, the BHP Billiton Limited The Offer Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association On 14 July 2011, BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Petroleum North special voting arrangements have been implemented so that America Inc. Parent, North America Holdings II Inc.
Purchaser, the shareholders of both companies vote together as a single and Petrohawk Energy Corporation Petrohawk entered into decision-making body on matters affecting the shareholders an Agreement and Plan of Merger Merger Agreement, pursuant of each company in similar ways such matters are referred to to which Purchaser commenced an offer Offer to acquire all as Joint Electorate Actions.
For so long as the Equalisation Ratio of the outstanding shares of Petrohawks common stock, par value remains 1:1, each BHP Billiton Limited share will effectively have US$0.001 per share Shares, for US$38.75 per Share, net to the the same voting rights as each BHP Billiton Plc share on Joint seller in cash Offer Price, without interest.
The Merger A Joint Electorate Action requires approval by ordinary resolution The Merger Agreement also provided that, following consummation or special resolution if required by statute, regulation, applicable of the Offer and satisfaction or waiver of certain customary listing rules or other applicable requirements of BHP Billiton Limited, conditions, Purchaser would be merged with and into Petrohawk with both the BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shareholders and Merger, with Petrohawk surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary the holder of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share of Parent.
Upon completion of the Merger, each untendered Share voting as a single class and also of BHP Billiton Plc, with the outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shareholders and the holder of the excluding those Shares that are held by i Parent, Petrohawk or BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share voting as a single class.
their respective wholly owned subsidiaries and ii stockholders of Petrohawk who properly demand appraisal in connection with Class Rights Actions the Merger under the Delaware General Corporation Law DGCL In the case of certain actions in relation to which the two bodies would be converted into the right to receive the Offer Price.
of shareholders may have divergent interests referred to as Class Rights Actions, the company wishing to carry out the Class Rights If Purchaser held 90 per cent or more of the outstanding Shares Action requires the prior approval of the shareholders in the other following the consummation of the Offer Short-Form Threshold, company voting separately and, where appropriate, the approval the parties would effect the Merger as a short-form merger under of its own shareholders voting separately.
Depending on the type the DGCL without the need for approval by Petrohawks stockholders.
of Class Rights Action undertaken, the approval required is either Conditions to the Offer an ordinary or special resolution of the relevant company.
Consummation of the Offer was subject to several conditions, These voting arrangements are secured through the constitutional including: i that a majority of the Shares outstanding generally documents of the two companies, the BHP Billiton Sharing determined on a fully diluted basis be validly tendered and not Agreement, the Special Voting Shares Deed and rights attaching properly withdrawn prior to the expiration date of the Offer: ii to a specially created Special Voting Share issued by each company clearance from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United and held in each case by a Special Voting Company.
The shares States: iii the absence of a material adverse effect on Petrohawk: in the Special Voting Companies are held legally and beneficially and iv certain other customary conditions.
The Offer was not by Law Debenture Trust Corporation Plc.
Cross guarantees Representations and warranties, covenants, termination fee BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each executed a Petrohawk made customary representations, warranties and Deed Poll Guarantee, pursuant to which creditors entitled to the covenants in the Merger Agreement.
Petrohawks covenants benefit of the BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee and the included covenants relating to Petrohawks conduct of its business BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee will, to the extent possible, between the date of the Merger Agreement and the closing be placed in the same position as if the relevant debts were of the Merger, restrictions on soliciting proposals for alternative owed by both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc combined.
transactions, public disclosures and other matters.
The Merger Agreement contained certain termination rights of Parent and Restrictions on takeovers of one company only Petrohawk and provided that, upon the termination of the Merger The BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles Agreement under specified circumstances, Petrohawk would of Association have been drafted to ensure that, except with the be required to pay Parent a termination fee of US$395 million.
consent of the Board, a person cannot gain control of one company without having made an equivalent offer to the shareholders The foregoing description of the Offer, the Merger and the Merger of both companies on equivalent terms.
Sanctions for breach Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its of these provisions would include withholding of dividends, voting entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement.
restrictions and the compulsory divestment of shares to the extent Completion of the Offer a shareholder and its associates exceed the relevant threshold.
On 21 August 2011, we announced that at the end of Friday, 19 August 2011, approximately 293.9 million Petrohawk shares 2.11 Material contracts had been validly tendered and not withdrawn, including approximately 36 million Petrohawk shares tendered by guaranteed 2.11.1 DLC agreements delivery.
The tendered shares represented 97.4 per cent of the On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Limited then known as BHP Limited outstanding shares of Petrohawk, thus satisfying the Short-Form and BHP Billiton Plc then known as Billiton Plc merged by way Threshold provision of the Merger Agreement.
We also announced of a DLC structure.
To effect the DLC, BHP Limited and Billiton Plc that following payment for all shares validly tendered and not as they were then known entered into the following agreements withdrawn, we expected to effect a short-form merger under designed to place the shareholders of both companies in a position Delaware law as promptly as possible.
The short-form merger where they effectively have an interest in a single group that combines was effected on 25 August 2011. the assets, and is subject to all the liabilities, of both companies: BHP Billiton Sharing Agreement BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee.
The effect of each of these agreements and the manner in which they operate are described in section 2.10 of this Report.
