1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.8.
5 Description of the LTIP Terms and performance hurdle of LTIP Performance Shares Upon vesting, Performance Shares become exercisable at no cost to the participant in accordance with the terms of grant and BHP Billitons Securities Dealing GLD.
All terms and details of the performance hurdle are outlined below.
Terms Duration of performance period Five years.
Dividends Dividends are not received by the executive during the vesting period.
A DEP as described in section 6.7.
2 will be provided when the vesting period is over and the executive exercises their Performance Shares.
This payment is not made in relation to any securities that are forfeited during the vesting period.
Performance condition BHP Billitons TSR relative to TSR of comparator companies.
TSR measures the return delivered to shareholders over a certain period through the change in share price and any dividends paid which are notionally reinvested for the purposes of the calculation.
TSR has been chosen as the most appropriate measure as it allows for an objective external assessment over a sustained period on a basis that is familiar to shareholders.
LTI granted December 2010 and prior LTI granted December 2011 Average period for measuring TSR for BHP Billiton and for each of the peer companies is The averaging period has been doubled to six months TSR performance averaged over a three-month period to help ensure that short-term as added security against short-term price fluctuations.
fluctuations in the market do not affect the vesting results.
LTI granted December 2009 and prior LTI granted December 2010 and December 2011 Comparator companies Index Sector peer group.
Sector peer group determines vesting of 67% of the Performance Shares.
Broad stock market group determines vesting of 33% of the Performance Shares, being the MSCI World index a market capitalisation index that captures the performance 1 of 1,500 stocks from around the world.
Sector peer group composition Weighted 75% to mining and 25% to oil and gas.
Current oil and gas component expanded to include major companies, with a cap and collar mechanism to reduce sensitivity to any single constituent company.
Vesting scale No Performance Shares vest if BHP Billitons TSR is at or below No Performance Shares vest if BHP Billitons TSR is below the Index TSR.
25% of the Performance Shares vest if BHP Billitons TSR is at the Index TSR.
For all Performance Shares to vest, BHP Billitons TSR must exceed the Index TSR by an average of 5.5% per annum, which equates to exceeding the average TSR over the five-year performance period by 30.7%.
Vesting occurs on a sliding scale between the Index TSR and the point of full vesting.
Other vesting conditions In the event that the Remuneration Committee does not consider the level of vesting that would otherwise apply based on the Groups achievement of the TSR hurdle to be a true reflection of the long-term financial performance of the Group, it retains the discretion to lapse some or all of participants Performance Shares.
This is an important mitigator against the risk of unintended vesting outcomes.
For the LTI awards allocated December 2009 and following, the Committee also has the capacity to determine that vesting not be applied for any particular participant s, should they consider that individual performance or other circumstances makes this an appropriate outcome.
It is anticipated that this power would only be exercised in exceptional circumstances.
Retesting if performance Not permitted.
hurdle not met Maximum award each An award not exceeding 200% of base salary at fair value.
The Board determines an appropriate allocation for each financial year individual each year.
The fair value is the outcome weighted by probability, and takes into account the difficulty of achieving performance conditions and the correlation between these and share price appreciation through a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The valuation methodology also takes into account other factors, including volatility and forfeiture risk including through failure to meet the service conditions.
Fair value has been used because it enables the Committee to determine LTI awards within target Total Remuneration, ensuring that awards are externally competitive.
LTI granted December 2009 and prior LTI granted December 2010 and December 2011 Fair value The fair value of each Performance Share as calculated The fair value of each Performance Share as calculated by Kepler Associates was 31% of the market value of by Kepler Associates was 41% of the market value of one ordinary BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc share one ordinary BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc share at the allocation date.
Exercise period Vested Performance Shares are able to be exercised for five years following the date that vesting is determined, with an Expiry Date and Expiry Date at a date prior to the fifth anniversary of vesting.
Treatment on departure The Committee regards it as an important principle that where a participant resigns without the Committees consent or their employment is terminated for cause, they forfeit the entitlement to their unvested Performance Shares.
The rules of the LTIP provide that should a participant cease employment in specific circumstances, such as retirement, with the consent of the Committee that participant may retain entitlements to a portion of the Performance Shares that have been granted, but that are not yet exercisable.
The number of such Performance Shares would be pro-rated to reflect the period of service from the start of the relevant performance period to the date of departure and, after the employees departure, would only vest and become exercisable to the extent that the performance hurdles are met.
This ensures that any benefit received by the individual remains linked to their contribution to ongoing Group performance.
If a participants employment ends due to death or disability, the Committee may choose to allow retention and immediate vesting of all of the participants Performance Shares.
1 As BHP Billitons TSR performance relative to its peers tends to be counter-cyclical, the sector-based comparison used in isolation prior to 2010 resulted in less perceived value for executives and potential recruits at times when recruitment and retention pressures were greatest.
As a result, for allocations from December 2010, a second TSR comparison based on a broad stock market index was introduced, following shareholder approval at the 2010 AGMs, for assessing the Groups TSR performance in order to provide a fairer and more balanced measure of performance.
The MSCI World index was chosen as a suitable broad stock market index for this second comparison.
