1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.3.
4 Prohibition on hedging of BHP Billiton shares and equity instruments by KMP KMP are not allowed to protect the value of any unvested BHP Billiton securities allocated to them under employee programs or the value of shares and securities held as part of meeting BHP Billitons Minimum Shareholder Requirement MSR as described in section 6.3.
The policy also prohibits KMP from using unvested BHP Billiton securities as collateral in any financial transaction, including hedging and margin loan arrangements.
Any securities that have vested and are no longer subject to restrictions or performance conditions may be subject to hedging arrangements or used as collateral, provided that consent is obtained from BHP Billiton in advance of the employee entering into the arrangement.
BHP Billiton treats compliance with this policy as a serious issue, and takes appropriate measures to ensure that the policy is adhered to.
5 Share ownership guidelines The CEO is required to hold BHP Billiton securities with a value at least equal to 300 per cent of i. e. three times one years pre-tax gross base salary under the Groups MSR policy.
For other members of the GMC, the minimum requirement is 200 per cent of i. e. two times one years pre-tax gross base salary.
The value of the securities for the purposes of the policy is the market value of the underlying shares.
Unvested securities do not qualify.
Most members of the GMC currently hold sufficient securities to meet these requirements.
Those that do not are expected to grow their holdings to the required level from the scheduled vesting of employee awards over an acceptable time frame.
Detailed share ownership information of the CEO and members of the GMC can be found in sections 7.20 and 7.21 of this Annual Report.
Under the policy, employees are not required to meet the holding requirement before awards are allocated to them, but if they are not holding the required number of shares at the time of exercise of an award, then they will be prohibited from selling all of the underlying shares on exercise.
6.4 Our remuneration strategy This section outlines the overarching remuneration strategy and framework that guides decisions on remuneration design and outcomes for the GMC members.
1 The overarching principles of our remuneration policy The key principles of our remuneration policy are unchanged and are to: support the execution of the Groups business strategy in accordance with a risk framework that is appropriate for the organisation: provide competitive rewards to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled executives willing to work around the world: apply demanding performance measures, including key financial and non-financial measures of performance: link a large component of pay to our performance and the creation of value for our shareholders from relative performance: ensure remuneration arrangements are equitable and facilitate the deployment of people around the Group: limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements which do not commit us to making any unjustified payments.
The Remuneration Committee is confident that these principles continue to meet the Groups objectives.
2 Our remuneration policy is focused on the long term Our remuneration arrangements are designed to ensure that executives take a long-term approach to decision-making and minimise activities that focus only on short-term results at the expense of longer-term business growth and success.
The Remuneration Committee has considered the ways in which risk management and the long-term horizon are reflected throughout BHP Billitons remuneration arrangements for all executives, and is satisfied that the approach reinforces the desired behaviours.
This is largely achieved through the Groups approach to STI and LTI rewards, which comprise a significant portion of total remuneration for the members of the GMC.
The equity component of STI rewards is deferred for a two-year period, and performance under the LTIP is measured over a five-year period.
The actual rewards received by members of the GMC therefore reflect the Groups performance and share price over an extended period.
It is the Committees view that this provides an appropriate focus on BHP Billitons sustained performance beyond the end of the initial measurement period.
This approach also provides a transparent mechanism for clawback or adjustment in the event of a restatement of Group results, through changes to the vesting or non-vesting of deferred equity.
In addition, STI and LTI outcomes are not driven by a purely formulaic approach.
The Committee holds some discretion to determine that rewards are not to be provided or vested in circumstances where it would be inappropriate or would provide unintended outcomes.
The Committee has no discretion to allow vesting when performance conditions have not been satisfied.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 137 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.4.
3 Our remuneration policy supports Our BHP Billiton Charter The Remuneration Committee recognises that remuneration has an important role to play in supporting the implementation and achievement of the Groups strategy and our ongoing performance.
Our Charter sets out our purpose, strategy, values and how we judge our success.
Our Charter is shown on the inside front cover of this Annual Report.
The diagram below illustrates how BHP Billitons remuneration policy and arrangements serve to support Our Charter, and specifically how those arrangements reinforce the achievement of our success as set out in Our Charter, and focus executives on a long-term approach and on minimising business risks.
Our people start each day with a sense of purpose and end the day with a sense of accomplishment.
Our communities, customers and suppliers value their relationship with us.
Our asset portfolio is world-class and sustainably developed.
Our operational discipline and financial strength enables our future growth.
Our shareholders receive a superior return on their investment.
To support the execution of the Groups business strategy in accordance with a risk framework that is appropriate for the organisation.
To provide competitive rewards to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled executives willing to work around the world.
To apply demanding performance measures, including key financial and non-financial measures of performance.
To link a large component of pay to our performance and the creation of value for our shareholders from relative performance.
To ensure remuneration arrangements are equitable and facilitate the deployment of people around the Group.
To limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements which do not commit us to making any unjustified payments.
At risk short-term At risk long-term Fixed remuneration incentives incentives GMC base salaries are aligned with A percentage of each GMC members The LTIP operates over a long-term salaries for comparable roles in global STI is driven by the achievement horizon.
Performance Shares are subject companies of similar complexity, of challenging individual measures, to a performance hurdle tested over size, reach and industry and reflect including the successful management a five-year period.
an individuals responsibilities, location, of key projects and initiatives.
The LTIP links a significant component performance, qualifications and STI outcomes for the GMC are weighted of pay for executives to the delivery of experience within the Group.
towards the achievement of challenging superior relative returns for shareholders.
Retirement benefits are similarly HSEC and financial KPIs linking Executives only derive value from benchmarked to comparable roles remuneration to the performance their LTI awards where BHP Billiton in global companies.
All current GMC of BHP Billitons assets and capital outperforms comparator companies in members are entitled to retirement management programs: terms of US$ TSR.
For awards in respect benefits under defined contribution 15% of the STI opportunity for GMC of years up to and including FY2010, the pension plans.
members is based on HSEC measures.
comparators are sector peer companies.
For FY2011 and FY2012 awards, TSR GMC members receive other benefits A 25% to 50% weighting on performance relative to sector peers in relation to health and other Profit after Taxation PAT and EBIT determines the vesting of 67% of the insurances, the costs of tax return both adjusted for foreign exchange securities, and TSR performance against preparation sometimes in multiple movements, commodity prices a broad market index determines the jurisdictions and to a capped and exceptional items.
vesting of the remaining awards.
amount and relocation allowances A 10% to 15% weighting on capital and assistance.
Full vesting under the LTIP only management cost and schedule.
occurs where BHP Billitons US$ On target performance against the TSR significantly outperforms that KPIs delivers a cash STI reward of 80% of the comparator companies.
The maximum cash The MSR 300% of annual pre-tax base award of 160% is rarely awarded, salary for the CEO and 200% for other and is only available where all GMC members helps to ensure non-financial and financial targets executives and shareholders interests are significantly exceeded.
Cash STI rewards are matched by an Executives are prohibited from award of BHP Billiton equity, which hedging unvested equity or shares is deferred for two years providing an that are held as part of the MSR.
appropriate focus on the longer-term time frame, even in regard to annual STI rewards.
138 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 This is reflected in Enacted via our overarching the components remuneration We are Delivered through tailored remuneration arrangements of remuneration policy principles successful when
