1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Progress against each years measurable objectives will continue 5.17 Diversity at BHP Billiton continued to be disclosed in the Annual Report, along with the proportion At a global level, the assets have coordinated with universities of women in our workforce, in senior management and on the and mining industry bodies on a range of promotional and Board.
There are currently two women on the Board.
For further sponsorship initiatives to raise the profile of both graduate information on the proportion of women in our workforce and broader opportunities for women within the mining sector.
and in senior management, and our employee profile more We continued to support the South African GirlEng Program generally, please see section 2.9. that aims to attract, retain and develop women engineers.
The GirlEng Program uses peer mentors, who are final year 5.18 Market disclosure engineering students and engineers working at BHP Billiton, to inspire high school students and encourage them to We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of disclosure study engineering.
ensuring that all investors and potential investors have the same The above initiatives, coupled with the continued focus during access to high-quality, relevant information in an accessible and timely the selection and recruitment process for graduates globally manner to assist them in making informed decisions.
A Disclosure has demonstrated an improvement in the percentage Committee manages our compliance with the market disclosure of female graduates hired from 29.0 per cent in FY2011 obligations and is responsible for implementing reporting processes to 32.5 per cent in FY2012.
and controls and setting guidelines for the release of information.
Each CSG, Group Function, Marketing and Minerals Exploration Disclosure Officers have been appointed in the Groups CSGs was required to develop and implement a diversity plan taking and Group Functions.
These officers are responsible for identifying into account the objectives of the Human Resources Policy and providing the Disclosure Committee with material information and the principles set out above.
In FY2012, each business about the activities of the CSG or functional areas using disclosure was required to refine its multi-year diversity plan by identifying guidelines developed by the Committee.
measurable objectives that would result in an improved diversity To safeguard the effective dissemination of information we have profile.
The measurable objectives identified through this process developed a Market Disclosure and Communications document, formed a part of each businesss performance requirements.
which outlines how we identify and distribute information Each businesss performance was evaluated against its FY2012 to shareholders and market participants.
measurable objectives and that evaluation was taken into account in determining bonus remuneration.
All businesses made progress against their measurable objectives set out in their multi-year diversity plan.
The following are highlights of the work that A copy of the Market Disclosure and Communications was delivered: document is available online at www.
com home aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
Manager level and above participated in inclusive leadership workshops to bolster their understanding of unconscious bias and actions that support or impede inclusion.
Copies of announcements to the stock exchanges on which we are listed, investor briefings, half-yearly financial statements, Manager toolkits were developed and implemented the Annual Report and other relevant information can be found on diversity and inclusion.
Any person wishing Diversity champions were identified and helped drive diversity.
to receive advice by email of news releases can subscribe High-potential women were identified as part of the succession at www.
management process and development plans were created to foster their development.
Recruitment practices were reviewed to assist with removing 5.19 Remuneration unconscious bias and to assist in attracting women.
Details of our remuneration policies and practices and the Clear expectations and targets were set with external remuneration paid to the Directors Executive and Non-executive recruitment partners in providing qualified diverse candidates.
and members of the GMC are set out in the Remuneration Mentoring programs for Indigenous employees were delivered.
Report in section 6 of this Annual Report.
Shareholders will Focus groups were held with female employees to be invited to consider and to approve the Remuneration Report better understand and identify actions that would help at the 2012 AGMs.
Employees and managers participated in diversity 5.20 Directors share ownership awareness events.
Non-executive Directors have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent Continuous improvement of their remuneration to the purchase of BHP Billiton shares until In FY2013, we will take the following steps to further enhance our they achieve a shareholding equivalent in value to one years gender diversity profile: remuneration.
Thereafter, they must maintain at least that level Embed diversity and inclusion in the behaviours that of shareholding throughout their tenure.
All dealings by Directors demonstrate Our Charter values through Our Charter Values are subject to the Groups Securities Dealing GLD and are reported in Action.
Employees will be assessed on how they demonstrate to the Board and to the stock exchanges.
Our Charter Values in Action as part of the annual performance Information on our policy governing the use of hedge arrangements review process.
over shares in BHP Billiton by both Directors and members Implement targeted graduate attraction initiatives, focused of the GMC is set out in section 6.3.
on shortage disciplines, to increase the proportion of female graduates hired year on year.
Details of the shares held by Directors are set out in section 7.20 of this Annual Report.
For FY2013, each business will continue to be evaluated on progress in executing its measurable objectives that form part of its multi-year diversity plan.
These will again be taken into account in determining bonus remuneration.
Monitoring and tracking performance against diversity plans will continue to be undertaken as part of the Groups internal compliance requirements.
