1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 1.5.
3 Management of principal risks continued Principal risk area Risk management approach Sustainability risks Our approach to sustainability risks is reflected in Our BHP Billiton Charter and described in section 2.8.
A comprehensive set of Group Level Documents HSEC incidents or accidents and related regulations may adversely GLDs set out Group-wide HSEC-related performance requirements affect our people, operations and reputation or licence to operate.
to ensure effective management control of these risks.
The potential physical impacts and related government regulatory responses to climate change and greenhouse effects may adversely The BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct sets out requirements impact our operations and markets.
Given that we operate in a related to working with integrity, including dealings with government challenging global environment straddling multiple jurisdictions, officials and third parties.
Processes and controls are in place a breach of our governance processes may lead to regulatory for the financial control over financial reporting, including under penalties and loss of reputation.
We have established anti-corruption and anti-trust related performance requirements overseen by the Legal and Compliance function.
The Disclosure Committee oversees our compliance with securities dealing obligations and continuous and periodic disclosure obligations.
For example, our future revenues from our operations, projects 1.6 Forward looking statements or mines described in this Report will be based, in part, upon This Report contains forward looking statements, including the market price of the minerals, metals or petroleum products statements regarding: produced, which may vary significantly from current levels.
trends in commodity prices and currency exchange rates: These variations, if materially adverse, may affect the timing or the feasibility of the development of a particular project, demand for commodities: the expansion of certain facilities or mines, or the continuation plans, strategies and objectives of management: of existing operations.
closure or divestment of certain operations or facilities including associated costs : Other factors that may affect the actual construction or production commencement dates, costs or production output and anticipated anticipated production or construction commencement dates: lives of operations, mines or facilities include our ability to profitably capital costs and scheduling: produce and transport the minerals, petroleum and or metals operating costs and shortages of materials and skilled employees: extracted to applicable markets: the impact of foreign currency anticipated productive lives of projects, mines and facilities: exchange rates on the market prices of the minerals, petroleum provisions and contingent liabilities: or metals we produce: activities of government authorities in tax and regulatory developments.
some of the countries where we are exploring or developing these projects, facilities or mines, including increases in taxes, changes Forward looking statements can be identified by the use of in environmental and other regulations and political uncertainty: terminology such as intend, aim, project, anticipate, estimate, labour unrest: and other factors identified in the risk factors plan, believe, expect, may, should, will, continue or similar described in section 1.5.
These statements discuss future expectations concerning the results of operations or financial condition, or provide other forward We cannot assure you that our estimated economically recoverable looking statements.
reserve figures, closure or divestment of such operations or facilities, including associated costs, actual production or commencement These forward looking statements are not guarantees or predictions dates, cost or production output or anticipated lives of the projects, of future performance, and involve known and unknown risks, mines and facilities discussed in this Annual Report, will not differ uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our materially from the statements contained in this Annual Report.
control, and which may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements contained in this release.
Except as required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group Readers are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or review any looking statements.
forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events.
