1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report In line with our support for the EITI, we report in the Sustainability 2.8.
11 Understanding and managing our Report 2012 payment of taxes and royalties derived from resource human rights impact continued development on a country-by-country basis.
We presented the data reviewed on an annual basis.
Where a HRIA identifies a material as the taxes and royalty payments that we make as BHP Billiton, risk, a Human Rights Management Plan must be developed and such as corporate income taxes and royalties, and those that we implemented.
Selected employees and contractors receive training collect on behalf of employees.
on how to comply with BHP Billitons human rights commitments.
Closure planning Security and human rights Closure planning is a key consideration in the planning and Our Security and Emergency Management GLD requires all our development of our projects and operations.
Operations are required operations to identify and manage security-related material risks to produce Life of Asset Plans, which detail the activities to develop to our people and property.
The nature and global reach of our the resource, and Closure Plans, which describe the proposed business can result in our people working in countries where there methods to rehabilitate and remediate following those activities and is potential exposure to personal and business risk.
Each country address closure obligations.
In addition to our projects and operating is assessed for the degree of risk associated with visiting, exploring assets, we are also responsible for a number of legacy operations and operating within it, and appropriate controls are developed that are in various stages of decommissioning, rehabilitation or to mitigate identified risks.
The Voluntary Principles on Security post-closure care and maintenance.
Information on our closure and Human Rights VPs assists organisations to maintain the and rehabilitation provisions can be found in note 18 Provisions safety and security of their operations through the provision to the financial statements.
of an operating framework that upholds respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Product stewardship As our primary activities are in the extraction and, in some cases, We use both public and private security providers to protect processing stages of a products life cycle, the majority of the life our people and assets.
Our Security and Emergency Management cycles of our products occur after the products have left our control.
GLD requires private security providers engaged by BHP Billiton We recognise there is strong business merit in implementing product to be signatories to, or agree in writing to align with the stewardship programs with other participants in the life cycles of our International Code of Conduct for Private Security Providers.
We seek to work with those involved in the product life In addition to this, written advice is given to security providers cycles to enhance environmental and social performance along outlining our commitment to the VPs and the expectation for the supply chain and to promote responsible product use and private security providers, or request for public security providers, management.
This approach applies to all stages of the supply to operate consistently with these principles.
chain from product storage to transport, consumption, recycling Occasionally, it is necessary to provide armed security protection and disposal of our products and by-products.
for the safety of our people.
Firearms are only deployed under In FY2012, we engaged in a number of product stewardship a set of approved rules of engagement and when it can be initiatives such as the Responsible Jewellery Council, Steel demonstrated that no other options exist to protect a human life, Stewardship Forum and Responsible Aluminium.
For other to carry out stewardship requirements such as injured livestock commodities, including copper and nickel, we participate in the management or as a means of last resort when threatened stewardship programs incorporated within industry associations.
Criteria for the use of firearms and rules of engagement must comply with the International Association As a member of the ICMM, we have also committed to implementing of Oil and Gas Producers, Firearms and the Use of Force Report the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework, which requires number 320, Revision 2. that we facilitate and encourage responsible design, use, re-use, recycling and disposal of our products.
12 Reporting transparently and behaving ethically Many of our products are required to have a specific materials Wherever we operate in the world, we strive to work with integrity safety data sheet MSDS.
These MSDSs outline the relevant health, doing what is right and doing what we say we will do.
We care safety and environmental aspects of our products and are provided as much about how results are achieved as we do about the results to customers and the transporters of our products.
At BHP Billiton, we believe that to maintain our position as one of the worlds leading companies, we must commit to the Managing our suppliers highest ethical business practices and governance standards in all Our contractors and suppliers have requirements in their contracts our dealings.
We strive to foster a culture that values and rewards consistent with Our Charter, Code of Business Conduct, and exemplary ethical standards, personal and corporate integrity and Anti-corruption GLD and Health, Safety, Environment and Community respect for others.
In our Supply Source to Contract GLD, we specify that our As our operations expand globally, we increasingly confront the suppliers align with these requirements, as well as with our zero challenges of doing business in political, legal and commercial tolerance to a number of human rights issues, including child labour, environments where corruption is a real risk.
However, regardless inhumane treatment of employees and forced or compulsory labour.
of the country or culture within which our people work, our All contracted suppliers are categorised depending on their HSEC Anti-corruption GLD and the Code of Business Conduct forbid and business conduct risk, and our level of commercial dependency, bribery and corruption in all our business dealings.
and a procedure to engage with each supplier is developed appropriate to the level of risk.
Particulars in relation to the Code of Business Conduct and anti-corruption are referred to in section 5.16 of this Report and in the Sustainability Report 2012 available online at 2.9 Employees www.
Specific discussion on legal proceedings People are the foundation of our business and underpin our is available in section 8 of this Report.
We value our people and encourage the development Transparently reporting taxes of talented and motivated individuals to support the continued Through our membership of the ICMM, BHP Billiton supports performance and growth of our diverse operations.
We strive the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, a global to build a sense of purpose and achievement among all our initiative to improve governance in resource-rich countries through people in the work we do.
the verification and full publication of company payments and By working to Our Charter, we align our people around our government revenues from oil, gas and mining.
We are committed common purpose and values.
We all use Our Charter as a vital to supporting and cooperating in the implementation of country-level reference point for how we do business, wherever we are in EITI Work Plans as our host countries progress the initiative.
the world, and whatever work we do.
