2 Awards of Matched Shares under the Shareplus all-employee share purchase plan Like all permanent employees, members of the GMC are eligible to participate in Shareplus, an all-employee share purchase plan.
Participants in Shareplus contribute from their post-tax base salary capped at US$5,000 per year to acquire shares in BHP Billiton.
Each of the GMC members chose to contribute the maximum allowable amount to the plan from their post-tax salary in FY2012.
Provided the participant remains employed by BHP Billiton on the third anniversary of the shares being acquired, the plan provides for a grant of matching shares on a 1:1 basis.
The IFRS fair value of the rights acquired is included in remuneration over the share purchase period in the table in section 6.7.
Further details regarding Shareplus are set out in note 32 Employee share ownership plans to the financial statements.
Matched shares were allocated under the plan on 2 April 2012 in relation to contributions made from base salary during the 2009 Shareplus Plan Year i. e. during the period from June 2009 to May 2010.
Differences in exchange rates in relation to the base salaries of the GMC members in previous financial years and the currencies of each securities exchange result in minor differences in the numbers of shares allocated.
GMC interests in BHP Billiton as a result of the plan are shown below.
2 During FY2012, all Shareplus holdings for GMC members were transferred from the Shareplus trust account into the holders own name on the ordinary share register.
Closing balances in the Shareplus trust are therefore nil for all GMC participants.
3 The market price shown is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the relevant date.
4 As per the Shareplus terms and conditions, Matched Shares in respect of Alex Vanselows participation in Shareplus during the 2009, 2010 and 2011 Shareplus Plan Years were allocated upon his retirement.
5 Mike Yeager was allocated 69 American Depositary Receipts ADRs listed on the New York Stock Exchange in April 2012, which are each equivalent to two ordinary BHP Billiton Limited shares.
