6 Remuneration Report continued 6.3 Remuneration governance 6.3.
1 Board oversight The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Groups remuneration arrangements are equitable and aligned with the long-term interests of BHP Billiton and its shareholders.
In performing this function, it is critical that the Board is independent of management when making decisions affecting remuneration of the CEO, the CEOs direct reports and the Groups employees.
Accordingly, the Board has established a Remuneration Committee to assist it in making decisions affecting employee remuneration.
The Committee is comprised solely of Non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
In order to ensure that it is fully informed when making remuneration decisions, the Committee receives regular reports and updates from members of management who the Committee invites to attend meetings as and when appropriate and can draw on services from a range of external sources, including remuneration consultants.
2 Remuneration Committee Remuneration John Buchanan Chairman The activities of the Remuneration Committee are governed Committee members Carlos Cordeiro by Terms of Reference approved by the Board in May 2011, Pat Davies from 1 June 2012 which are available on our website.
The purpose of the John Schubert Committee is to assist the Board in its oversight of: Number of meetings in FY2012 Eight the remuneration policy and its specific application to the CEO, the Executive Directors and executives reporting to Other individuals who Jac Nasser Chairman 1 regularly attended meetings the CEO, and its general application to all Group employees: Shriti Vadera Non-executive Director Marius Kloppers CEO the determination of levels of reward for the CEO and approval Karen Wood Group Executive and of reward to the CEOs direct reports: Chief People & Public Affairs Officer the annual evaluation of the performance of the CEO, Gerard Bond Head of Group Human Resources by providing guidance to the Group Chairman: to 2 September 2011 communication with shareholders on the Groups remuneration Gary Brown Head of Group Human Resources policy and the Committees work on behalf of the Board: from 6 September 2011 Richard Doody Vice President Group Reward the Groups compliance with applicable legal and regulatory and Recognition to 30 November 2011 requirements associated with remuneration matters: Andrew Fitzgerald Vice President Group Reward the preparation of the Remuneration Report to be included and Recognition from 1 December 2011 in the Groups Annual Report: Jane McAloon Group Company Secretary the review, at least annually, of remuneration by gender, the Geof Stapledon Vice President Governance relative proportion of men and women in the Groups workforce and the Groups progress in achieving its diversity objectives.
1 Other individuals who regularly attended meetings were not present when matters associated with their own remuneration were considered.
3 Use of remuneration consultants The Remuneration Committee seeks and considers advice from independent remuneration advisers where appropriate.
Remuneration consultants are engaged by, and report directly to, the Committee.
Potential conflicts of interest are taken into account when remuneration consultants are selected and their terms of engagement regulate their level of access to, and require their independence from, BHP Billitons management.
The advice and recommendations of external advisers are used as a guide, but do not serve as a substitute for thorough consideration of the issues by each Director.
Kepler Associates was appointed by the Committee to act as an independent remuneration adviser to provide specialist remuneration advice and does not provide other services to the Group.
Kepler Associates is a member of the UK Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its Code of Conduct.
During the year, Kepler Associates provided advice and assistance to the Committee on a wide range of matters, including: analysis and support for the strategic review of GMC remuneration arrangements conducted during the year: benchmarking of pay of senior executives against comparable roles at a range of relevant comparator groups, including sector and size peers: provision of information and commentary on global trends in executive remuneration: calculation of accounting fair values of equity awards and performance analysis for LTI awards: review of, and commentary on, management proposals: other ad hoc support and advice as requested by the Committee.
As part of its role, Kepler Associates provided remuneration recommendations to the Committee during the year.
Each time Kepler Associates provides a remuneration recommendation, Kepler Associates provides a declaration that the remuneration recommendation was made free from undue influence by the member of Key Management Personnel KMP to whom the recommendation relates.
The Board considered the processes outlined above, the constraints incorporated into Kepler Associates terms of engagement, the implementation of a comprehensive protocol for the engagement of remuneration advisers and the receipt of the declaration of no undue influence.
It is satisfied that the remuneration recommendations received from Kepler Associates were made free from undue influence by any of the members of KMP to whom the recommendations related.
Total fees paid to Kepler Associates for the above services for the period from 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012 were 362,000, of which 54,000 was for attendance at Committee meetings and commentary on management proposals, and a total of 98,000 for the provision of remuneration recommendations.
The remainder is mainly a non-recurring item relating to the review of GMC remuneration arrangements conducted during the year, advice on arrangements for new KMP and the provision of technical advice on executive remuneration.
Management also appoints external firms from time to time to assist with remuneration benchmarking, data provision and the like: however, Kepler Associates is the only remuneration consultant appointed by the Committee.
No other remuneration adviser provided remuneration recommendations during the year in relation to KMP.
