1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 5.4 Board membership continued 5.7 Director skills, experience and attributes attend all the regularly scheduled Board meetings, by invitation, Skills, experience and attributes required where they make presentations and engage in discussions with The Board considers that a diversity of skills, backgrounds, Directors, answer questions, and provide input and perspective knowledge, experience, geographic location, nationalities and gender on their areas of responsibility.
The Board also deliberates in is required in order to effectively govern the business.
The Board the absence of management at the beginning and end of each and its committees work to ensure that the Board continues to have meeting, which is chaired by the Group Chairman.
the right balance of skills, experience, independence and Group knowledge necessary to discharge its responsibilities in accordance The Directors of the Group are: with the highest standards of governance.
Mr Jac Nasser Chairman Ms Carolyn Hewson Mr Marius Kloppers CEO Mr Lindsay Maxsted In order to govern the Group effectively, Non-executive Directors must have a clear understanding of the Groups overall strategy, Mr Malcolm Broomhead Mr Wayne Murdy together with knowledge about the Group and the industries Sir John Buchanan Mr Keith Rumble in which it operates.
Non-executive Directors must be sufficiently Mr Carlos Cordeiro Dr John Schubert familiar with the Groups core business to be effective contributors Mr David Crawford Baroness Shriti Vadera to the development of strategy and to monitor performance.
Mr Pat Davies The Board Governance Document requires that Directors demonstrate The biographical details of the Directors are set out in section 4.1 unquestioned honesty and integrity, preparedness to question, of this Annual Report.
challenge and critique, and a willingness to understand and commit to the highest standards of governance.
Directors must commit to the collective decision-making processes of the Board.
5.5 Chairmans role Individual Directors are required to debate issues openly and The Chairman of the Group is responsible for leading the Board and constructively, and are free to question or challenge the opinions ensuring that it is operating to the highest governance standards.
Directors must also commit to active involvement The Chairman is charged with building an effective, high-performing in Board decisions and the application of strategic thought to and collegial team of Directors and ensuring that they operate matters in issue.
Directors must be clear communicators and effectively as a Board.
good listeners who actively contribute to the Board in a collegial manner.
Each Director must ensure that no decision or action The Chairman, Jac Nasser, is considered by the Board to be is taken that places his or her interests in front of the interests independent.
He was appointed Chairman of the Group from of the business.
31 March 2010 and has been a Non-executive Director of the Group since 6 June 2006.
Mr Nasser was last re-elected at Directors must be prepared to commit sufficient time and resources the 2011 AGMs and, in accordance with the Groups policy to perform the role effectively.
The Nomination Committee takes that each Director stand for election annually, will stand for account of the other positions held by each potential Director re-election in 2012. candidate.
It assesses whether they will have adequate time to devote to the Board, prior to making a recommendation to The Chairmans role includes: the Board on whether to appoint them as a Director.
In addition, ensuring that the principles and processes of the Board Directors are required to consult with the Chairman before are maintained, including the provision of accurate, accepting any additional commitments that could conflict timely and clear information: with or impact on the time Directors can devote to their role.
encouraging debate and constructive criticism: The Nomination Committee is required to assist the Board in ensuring strategic focus is regularly reviewed, clearly ensuring that the Board is comprised of high-calibre individuals understood and underpins the work of the Board: whose background, skills, experience and personal characteristics setting agendas for meetings of the Board, in conjunction will augment the present Board and meet its future needs and with the CEO and Group Company Secretary, that focus diversity aspirations.
on the strategic direction and performance of our business: Current Board profile ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion on all agenda items, including strategic issues: The following table sets out the key skills and experience of the Directors and the extent to which they are represented on the Board leading the Board and individual Director and its committees.
In summary, the Non-executive Directors contribute: performance assessments: international and operational experience: speaking and acting for the Board and representing the understanding of the sectors in which we operate: Board to shareholders: knowledge of world capital markets: presenting shareholders views to the Board: an understanding of the health, safety, environmental facilitating the relationship between the Board and the CEO.
and community challenges that we face.
The Board considers that none of Mr Nassers other commitments set out in section 4.1 of this Annual Report interfere with the The Executive Director brings additional perspectives to the Boards discharge of his responsibilities to the Group.
The Board is satisfied work through a deep understanding of the Groups business.
that he makes sufficient time available to serve the Group effectively.
In addition to the skills and experience set out in the table, the Board considers that each Director has the following attributes: The Group does not have a Deputy Chairman, but has identified John Schubert to act as Chairman should the need arise at unquestioned honesty and integrity: short notice.
a proven track record of creating value for shareholders: time available to undertake the responsibilities: 5.6 Senior Independent Director an ability to apply strategic thought to matters in issue: a preparedness to question, challenge and critique: The Board has appointed John Buchanan as the Senior Independent a willingness to understand and commit to the highest Director of BHP Billiton Plc in accordance with the UK Corporate standards of governance.
Sir John is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed through the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
As Senior Independent Director, he also provides a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for other Directors if necessary.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 113 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.7 Director skills, experience and attributes continued Skills and experience Board Risk and Audit Nomination Remuneration Sustainability Finance Total Directors 13 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors Managing and leading Sustainable success in business at a very senior 12 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors level in a successful career.
Global experience Senior management or equivalent experience 13 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors in multiple global locations, exposed to a range of political, cultural, regulatory and business environments.
Governance Commitment to the highest standards of governance, 13 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors including experience with a major organisation which is subject to rigorous governance standards, and an ability to assess the effectiveness of senior management.
Strategy Track record of developing and implementing 13 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors a successful strategy, including appropriately probing and challenging management on the delivery of agreed strategic planning objectives.
Financial acumen Senior executive or equivalent experience in financial 13 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors accounting and reporting, corporate finance and internal financial controls, including an ability to probe the adequacies of financial and risk controls.
Capital projects Experience working in an industry with projects 11 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors involving large-scale capital outlays and long-term investment horizons.
Health, safety and environment Experience related to workplace health 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors and safety, environmental and social responsibility, and community.
Remuneration Board remuneration committee membership 13 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors or management experience in relation to remuneration, including incentive programs and pensions superannuation and the legislation and contractual framework governing remuneration.
Mining Senior executive experience in a large mining 5 Directors 1 Director 0 Directors 1 Director 2 Directors 2 Directors organisation combined with an understanding of the Groups corporate purpose to create long-term shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
Oil and gas Senior executive experience in the oil and gas 5 Directors 1 Director 2 Directors 3 Directors 1 Director 1 Director industry, including in depth knowledge of the Groups strategy, markets, competitors, operational issues, technology and regulatory concerns.
Marketing Senior executive experience in marketing and 11 Directors 2 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors a detailed understanding of the Groups corporate purpose to create long-term shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
Public policy Experience in public and regulatory policy, 13 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors including how it affects corporations.
114 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report S K I L L S Remuneration Australia HSEC South Africa E C N Europe E I R E P X US E Capital projects 6 years participation, time commitment and continuous improvement.
5.7 Director skills, experience In summary, Directors are expected to constructively challenge: and attributes continued set values and standards of the Group: monitor the performance Renewal of management: satisfy themselves as to the adequacy and integrity of financial statements: and satisfy themselves that the systems The Board plans for its own succession, with the assistance for the identification and management of risks are robust and of the Nomination Committee.
In doing this, the Board: appropriate.
Directors are also expected to commit sufficient time considers the skills, backgrounds, knowledge, experience to carry out their role and to participate in continuous improvement and diversity of geographic location, nationality and gender programs and internal review to support ongoing development.
necessary to allow it to meet the corporate purpose: The letter of appointment also makes it clear that Directors are assesses the skills, backgrounds, knowledge, experience required to disclose circumstances that may affect, or be perceived and diversity currently represented: to affect, their ability to exercise independent judgement so that identifies any inadequate representation of those attributes the Board can assess independence on a regular basis.
and agrees the process necessary to ensure a candidate is selected who brings them to the Board: reviews how Board performance might be enhanced, both A copy of the terms of appointment is available online at an individual Director level and for the Board as a whole.
com home aboutus our company The Board believes that orderly succession and renewal Pages governance.
is achieved as a result of careful planning, where the appropriate composition of the Board is continually under review.
Diversity The Board has set an aspirational goal of increasing the number When considering new appointments to the Board, the Nomination of women on the Board to at least three over the next two years.
Committee oversees the preparation of a position specification While this remains our medium-term target, the immediate that is provided to an independent recruitment organisation business imperative in FY2012 was to add additional expertise retained to conduct a global search.
Independent search firms in the oil and gas sector.
The appointment of Mr Davies brings are instructed to consider a wide range of candidates, including this experience as well as relevant broader skills and experience.
taking into account geographic location, nationality and gender.
We continue to work to identify future candidates for the Board.
In addition to the specific skills, knowledge and experience The ongoing aim is to enhance the diversity of Directors consistent deemed necessary, the specification contains the criteria required with our five-year outlook of the attributes currently present, and by the Board Governance Document.
of those required, on the Board.
There are currently two female Newly appointed Directors must submit themselves Directors and the Boards broader diversity mix is set out in the pie to shareholders for election at the first AGM following chart below.
Further information in relation to how diversity is being their appointment.
addressed within the broader Group is contained in section 5.17.
The Board has adopted a letter of appointment that contains the terms on which Non-executive Directors will be appointed, including the basis upon which they will be indemnified.
The letter of appointment clearly defines the role of Directors, including the expectations in terms of independence, Internal and external Board review Board skills, experience and diversity 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 | 115 36 years Financial acumen 03 years D G I V E E N R D Strategy S Public policy E I T R Y L Marketing O Governance C A T I O N Global O and gas il T E N U R E Mining Managing and leading
