6 Notes to Financial Statements Basis of preparation 1 Accounting policies This general purpose financial report for the year ended 30 June 2012 Dual Listed Companies structure and basis has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the of preparation of financial statements Australian Corporations Act 2001 and the UK Companies Act 2006 Merger terms and with: On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Limited previously known as Australian Accounting Standards, being Australian equivalents BHP Limited, an Australian listed company, and BHP Billiton Plc to International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations previously known as Billiton Plc, a United Kingdom UK listed as issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board AASB company, entered into a Dual Listed Company DLC merger.
effective as of 30 June 2012: This was effected by contractual arrangements between the International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations Companies and amendments to their constitutional documents.
as adopted by the European Union EU effective as of 30 June 2012: International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations The effect of the DLC merger is that BHP Billiton Limited and its as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board subsidiaries the BHP Billiton Limited Group and BHP Billiton Plc effective as of 30 June 2012. and its subsidiaries the BHP Billiton Plc Group operate together as a single economic entity the Group.
Under the arrangements: The above accounting standards and interpretations are collectively the shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc referred to as IFRS in this report.
have a common economic interest in both Groups: There were no significant impacts arising from accounting the shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc take standards or interpretations adopted for the first time in these key decisions, including the election of Directors, through a joint financial statements.
electoral procedure under which the shareholders of the two The following accounting standards may have an impact on the Companies effectively vote on a joint basis: Group in future reporting periods but are not yet effective: BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have a common Board of Directors, a unified management structure and joint objectives: IFRS 9 AASB 9 Financial Instruments modifies the classification and measurement of certain classes of financial assets and dividends and capital distributions made by the two Companies liabilities.
The most significant change is to rationalise from are equalised: four to two primary categories for financial assets.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc each executed a deed IFRS 10 AASB 10 Consolidated Financial Statements is a poll guarantee, guaranteeing subject to certain exceptions the replacement of IAS 27 AASB 127 Consolidations.
The revised contractual obligations whether actual or contingent, primary standard introduces a modified single concept of control that or secondary of the other incurred after 29 June 2001 together applies to all entities.
It changes the requirements for determining with specified obligations existing at that date.
whether an entity is consolidated by revising the definition If either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc proposes to pay of control and adding further guiding principles.
a dividend to its shareholders, then the other Company must pay A review of all entities and contractual arrangements in the Group a matching cash dividend of an equivalent amount per share to its which are less than 100 per cent owned, currently proportionately shareholders.
If either Company is prohibited by law or is otherwise consolidated, or currently accounted for as joint operations or assets unable to declare, pay or otherwise make all or any portion of such has been completed to assess the impact of IFRS 10 on the Group.
a matching dividend, then BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc will, That review determined that Escondida will be controlled by the so far as it is practicable to do so, enter into such transactions with Group under IFRS 10 and consolidated into the results of the Group each other as the Boards agree to be necessary or desirable so as from 1 July 2013.
Accordingly, the Group will no longer recognise to enable both Companies to pay dividends as nearly as practicable its 57.5 per cent share of Escondidas assets, liabilities, revenue, at the same time.
expenses and cash flows but will recognise 100 per cent of The DLC merger did not involve the change of legal ownership of Escondidas revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and cash flows any assets of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc, any change and a non-controlling interest equal to 42.5 per cent of Escondidas of ownership of any existing shares or securities of BHP Billiton Limited profit and net assets.
or BHP Billiton Plc, the issue of any shares or securities or any payment IFRS 11 AASB 11 Joint Arrangements modifies the accounting by way of consideration, save for the issue by each Company of for joint arrangements in two ways: one special voting share to a trustee company which is the means It changes the definition of joint control with reference to the by which the joint electoral procedure is operated.
definition of unanimous consent the contractually agreed sharing Accounting for the DLC merger of control of an arrangement with reference to voting on relevant activities.
Arrangements which do not fall within this definition The basis of accounting for the DLC merger was established under are beyond the scope of IFRS 11.
Australian and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice GAAP, pursuant to the requirements of the Australian Securities and For those entities within the scope of IFRS 11, a distinction is made Investments Commission ASIC Practice Note 71 Financial Reporting between joint ventures and joint operations based on the rights by Australian Entities in Dual-Listed Company Arrangements, an and obligations of the parties arising from the arrangement in the order issued by ASIC under section 340 of the Corporations Act 2001 normal course of business.
Entities for which it is determined the on 2 September 2002, and in accordance with the UK Companies Act Group has rights only to the net assets of the arrangement are 1985.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 AASB 1 classified as joint ventures and are equity accounted.
Entities for First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, which it is determined the Group has rights to the underlying the same basis of accounting is applied under International Financial assets and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangement are Reporting Standards.
Accordingly, these financial statements classified as joint operations and therefore the Group recognises consolidate the Group as follows: its proportionate share of the jointly held assets and liabilities, revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the Results for the years ended 30 June 2012, 30 June 2011 and joint operation and from the sale of the output by the joint 30 June 2010 are of the consolidated entity comprising the operation and its share of any expenses incurred jointly.
BHP Billiton Limited Group and the BHP Billiton Plc Group.
A review of all entities and contractual arrangements in the Group Assets and liabilities of the BHP Billiton Limited Group and which are less than 100 per cent owned, currently proportionately the BHP Billiton Plc Group were consolidated at the date consolidated, or currently accounted for as joint operations or assets of the merger at their existing carrying amounts.
has been completed to assess the impact of IFRS 11 on the Group.
Selected financial information of the BHP Billiton Limited single parent entity is presented in note 36 to the financial statements.
Financial statements of the BHP Billiton Plc single parent entity are presented in section 9.2 of the Annual Report.
