Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Summary of significant accounting These improvements have had no impact going concern basis in preparing the policies and critical accounting on the previously reported net change in cash Annual Report and accounts.
judgements and estimates and cash equivalents.
Adoption of new and revised standards Amlin plc the Company is a public limited Basis of consolidation C 5VCPFCTFU COGPFOGPVU VQ RWDNKUJGF company registered in England and Wales.
The financial statements consolidate the UVCPFCTFU CPF KPVGTRTGVCVKQPU GHHGEVKXG QP QT The address of the registered office is accounts of the Company and subsidiaries, CHVGT, CPWCT[ St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3A 8ND.
including the Groups underwriting through The Group has adopted the following amended The basis of preparation, basis of consolidation participation on Lloyds syndicates.
Subsidiaries IFRS effective as of 1 January 2012: and significant accounting policies adopted in are all entities including structured entities IFRS 7 amended, Financial instruments: the preparation of Amlin plc and subsidiaries over which the Group has control.
The Group Disclosures Transfers of financial assets the Group consolidated financial statements controls an entity when it is exposed, or has are set out below.
rights, to variable returns from its involvement The effect of this change is as follows: with the entity and has the ability to affect Basis of preparation IFRS 7 amended, Financial instruments: those returns through its power over the entity.
These consolidated financial statements are Disclosures Transfers of financial assets The financial statements of all subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with International The amendment introduces more extensive prepared for the same reporting year as the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as quantitative and qualitative disclosures about Parent Company.
Consolidation adjustments adopted for use in the European Union EU.
the transfer of financial assets to assist users are made to convert subsidiary accounts The consolidated financial statements comply in understanding the implications of transfers prepared under different accounting standards with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation and of financial instruments and the potential risks into IFRS so as to remove the effects of any Companies Act 2006. that may remain with the transferor.
There is different accounting policies that may exist.
no material impact on the Group or Companys The consolidated financial statements have Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that financial statements.
been prepared on the historical cost basis control is transferred to the Group and cease to except for cash and cash equivalents, financial be consolidated from the date that control is D 5VCPFCTFU COGPFOGPVU VQ RWDNKUJGF assets and liabilities, share options, and pension transferred out.
UVCPFCTFU CPF KPVGTRTGVCVKQPU GCTN[ CFQRVGF D[ assets, which are measured at their fair value.
VJG TQWR All inter company balances, profits and The Group has early adopted the following Except where otherwise stated, all figures transactions are eliminated.
standards and consequential amendments included in the consolidated financial Details of principal subsidiaries included within to other IFRSs for the financial year ended statements are presented in millions of British the consolidated financial statements can be 31 December 2012.
Comparative information Pounds Sterling sterling shown as m rounded found in note 4. has been restated accordingly.
The Group has to the nearest 100,000. not presented a balance sheet for the beginning Going concern The accounting policies adopted in preparing of the earliest comparative period as required The Groups business, risk and finance these financial statements are consistent with by IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements, management, performance and position, those followed in the preparation of the Groups as the impact is not material.
together with factors that are likely to affect annual financial statements for the year ended future development, are described in the IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements 31 December 2011, unless otherwise stated.
Performance Review of this Annual Report on IFRS 10 replaces the portion of IAS 27, In accordance with IFRS 4, Insurance page 45.
Capital management strategy, which Consolidated and separate financial contracts the Group has applied existing covers how regulatory and economic capital statements that addressed the accounting for accounting practices for insurance contracts, needs are measured and how capital is deployed, consolidated financial statements and SIC-12, modified as appropriate, to comply with the is described under Financial Management on Consolidation Special purpose entities.
IFRS framework and applicable standards.
The financial position of the Group, IFRS 10 revises the definition of control, including commentary on cash and investment the key factor in determining whether an entity The Group has early adopted the accounting levels, currency management, insurance liability is consolidated.
and disclosure requirements of IFRS 10, management, liquidity and borrowings, is also Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 11, The Group has assessed whether the covered in that section.
In addition note 2 Joint arrangements and IFRS 12, Disclosure consolidation conclusion under IFRS 10 describes capital management needs and of interests in other entities.
Further details are differs from IAS 27 SIC-12 as at 1 January policies and note 3 covers underwriting, market, provided below and in note 4.
If the consolidation conclusion differs as liquidity and credit risk which may affect the at this date, the comparative period has been Following the Groups announcement that Amlin financial position of the Group.
restated to be consistent with the accounting France will be integrated with the Amlin Europe The Group has considerable financial conclusion under IFRS 10.
Any difference division, the two businesses are now reported resources to meet its financial needs and, in between the carrying amounts under IFRS 10 together within the Amlin Europe column in the much of the Group, manages a mature portfolio and the carrying amounts under IAS 27 SIC-12 segmental information.
Comparative information of insurance risk through an experienced and is adjusted to equity.
Where the consolidation for the year ended 31 December 2011 has been stable team.
The Directors believe that the conclusion is the same under IFRS 10 and IAS restated accordingly.
Further details are Group is well positioned to manage its business 27 SIC-12, no adjustment to previous provided in note 5. risk successfully in the current uncertain accounting has been made.
Improvements have also been made to the economic environment.
The adoption of IFRS 10 resulted in a change presentation of interest received and dividends After making enquiries, the Directors have a in the control conclusion for Tramline Re Ltd, received in the consolidated statement of cash reasonable expectation that the Company and which is no longer consolidated by the Group.
flows, to reflect that such cash flows are the Group have adequate resources to continue The effect of adoption of IFRS 10 is discussed considered cash flows from operating activities in further detail in note 4. in operational existence for the foreseeable rather than cash flows from investing activities.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the 102 102
