Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements in a transaction that affects neither the tax In addition to regulatory capital requirements, 2011: 0.5% of Syndicate gross premium, profit nor the accounting profit.
the Group believes that it should retain a level is payable.
of capital within the Group to allow it to grow its Deferred tax liabilities are recognised in respect The LCR is expected to be reviewed annually business materially in the aftermath of a major of taxable temporary differences arising on by Lloyds as was the ICA previously and insurance disaster, but also to respond to other investments in subsidiaries and associates, periodically by the FSA.
The FSA expects opportunities to enhance long-term growth, for except where the Group and Company is able to management to apply their rules continuously.
The overall capital control the reversal of the temporary difference If a firms capital falls below its ECA, steps must held by the Group is driven by the business mix, and it is probable that the temporary difference be taken to restore capital adequacy.
Due to nature and objectives of each division and its will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the nature of the Lloyds capital setting process, context within the wider Group.
Funds at Lloyds FAL requirements are The carrying amount of deferred tax assets Amlin Corporate Member Limited, which formally assessed and funded twice yearly is reviewed at each balance sheet date and supports Syndicate 2001, is required to hold at discrete periods and must be met for the reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable regulatory capital in compliance with the rules Syndicate to continue underwriting.
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to issued by the UKs Financial Services Authority allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
At 31 December 2012, Amlin Corporate Member FSA and is also subject to Lloyds capital Limited funded the agreed FAL requirement of Deferred tax is calculated at the substantively requirements.
Under FSA rules, the corporate 620.2 million 2011: 497.0 million to support enacted tax rates that are expected to apply member must hold capital in excess of the underwriting for the 2013 year of account.
in the period when the liability is settled or the higher of two amounts.
The first is the Minimum asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or Capital Requirement MCR, as prescribed by The increase of 123.2 million is largely credited to profit or loss, except when it relates EU directives, calculated by applying fixed driven by the change in basis of the ICA to items charged or credited directly to other percentages to premium and claims and to the LCR calculations offsetting this increase, comprehensive income or equity, in which case allowing for historic reinsurance recoveries.
on a Solvency II basis, the balance sheet capital the deferred tax is also charged or credited The second is an Individual Capital Assessment resources have increased by 77.5 million directly to other comprehensive income or ICA calculated internally by the firm under the a net effective increase of 45.7 million.
Individual Capital Adequacy Standards ICAS The Group does not seek to retain any assets regime.
The ICA is defined as the level of capital Deferred tax is recognised on the profits of in excess of the Lloyds capital requirement that is required to contain the probability of foreign subsidiaries where it is reasonably within the Lloyds framework and any surplus insolvency, over a one year timeframe, to no foreseeable that distribution of the profit back is paid to the corporate entities in the Group.
The ICA calculation basis to the UK will take place and the UK dividend is generally considered to be broadly equivalent Amlin AG is supervised by the Swiss Financial exemption is not expected to apply.
to a BBB financial strength rating.
The ICA Market Supervisory Authority FINMA and the Dividend distribution calculation considers all ultimate losses Amlin Bermuda branch is supervised by the Dividend distribution to the Companys incurred over a one year business planning Bermuda Monetary Authority BMA.
shareholders is recognised as a liability in the horizon, and any prior year reserve movements.
FINMA supervision is composed of various Groups and Companys financial statements in For the purposes of setting capital requirements qualitative assessments, governance the period in which the dividends are approved for the 2013 year of account, Lloyds requirements and minimum solvency levels.
introduced the Lloyds capital return LCR Amlin AG provides regulatory solvency Other payables replacing the ICA, including the calculation reporting to FINMA, under the rules of Solvency Other payables are initially recognised at fair of an ultimate solvency capital requirement I and the Swiss Solvency Test SST.
Solvency I value and subsequently measured at amortised uSCR, and a balance sheet to be prepared is based on the Swiss statutory financial cost.
They represent liabilities to pay for goods under Solvency II principles.
Lloyds consider statements and the required capital is or services that have been received or supplied that the LCR submission provides protection calculated as a fixed percentage of premiums, in the normal course of business, invoiced by to policyholders equivalent to the FSAs ICAS claims incurred and or net amounts at risk.
the supplier before the period end, but for regime.
Lloyds has previously uplifted all ICAs The SST is based on an economic view and which payment has not yet been made.
by 35% to bring the capital to a level to support required capital is derived from an internal a higher financial strength rating but, as a onecapital model.
Capital off transitional arrangement across the market Whilst the internal model is still subject to final The capital structure of the Group consists since Solvency II is not yet live, Lloyds approval by FINMA, it has been temporarily of equity attributable to equity holders of the uplifted the 2013 capital requirement by the approved by FINMA until 31 December 2015.
Company, comprising issued capital, reserves same amount as the 2012 uplift since the Amlin AG calculates available and required and retained earnings as disclosed in the business written was materially unchanged.
capital under the SST using the aforementioned consolidated statement of changes in equity The final capital requirement, the Economic model.
The minimum ratio for Solvency I as and note 26, and subordinated debt as Capital Assessment ECA, is then subject well as for the SST is set at 100% the SST disclosed in note 31.
For business planning to a minimum of 40% 2011: 40% of the minimum ratio became legally binding in 2011. purposes, account is also taken of the Groups Syndicates agreed premium capacity limit.
For both ratios Amlin AG exceeds the 100% debt facilities as disclosed in note 31.
At 31 December 2012, the agreed ECA minimum ratio.
The method by which the Group manages its as a percentage of the proposed underwriting Under BMA regulations, Amlin AG is licensed capital base is described on page 20 of the capacity for the following year of account was as a Class IV insurer and the minimum solvency Financial Management section.
margin is the greater of US$100 million, 50% During the current and prior periods, the Group The Syndicate also benefits from mutualised of net premiums written in the current financial complied with all externally imposed capital capital within the Lloyds Central Fund, for year, 15% of claims reserves and the Enhanced requirements to which it is subject.
which a variable annual levy, for 2012 of 0.5% Capital Requirement ECR.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 109 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 109
