0QVGU VQ VJG CEEQWPVU EQPVKPWGF For the year ended 31 December 2012 2.
Capital continued insufficient premium being calculated and which is to carry reserves in excess of the The ECR is calculated on an annual basis charged or may result from an unexpected, actuarial best estimate.
through either the Bermuda Solvency Capital or unprecedented, high level of claims.
The review of claims arising may result in Requirement BSCR model or an approved A number of controls are deployed to limit the underwriters adjusting pricing levels to cater for internal model.
In addition, as a Class IV amount of insurance exposure underwritten.
an unexpectedly higher trend of claims advices insurer, the company is required to maintain Each year a business plan is prepared and or payments.
However, this may not be possible a minimum liquidity ratio such that the value agreed by the boards of Amlin plc and its in a competitive market and underwriters may of relevant assets is not less than 75% of its subsidiaries which is used to monitor the respond either by accepting business with lower relevant liabilities.
Amlin AG met this amount of premium income, and exposure, expected profit margins or declining to renew requirement at 31 December 2012. to be written in total and for each class of policies and thus reducing income.
Also, there For trading purposes, Amlin AG believes that business.
Progress against this plan is is a portfolio of risks already underwritten which it is necessary to hold at least US$1 billion monitored during the year.
cannot be re-priced until renewal at the end of capital, which is currently in excess of the of the policy period.
The Group also operates line guides that minimum required by the BMA and FINMA.
determine the maximum liability per policy The Group is exposed to the impact of large Amlin Europe N. V. is required to hold regulatory that can be written for each class on a gross catastrophe events such as windstorms, capital in compliance with the rules issued by or net of facultative reinsurance basis by each earthquakes or terrorist incidents.
Exposure its regulator fide Nederlandsche Bank DNB, underwriter.
These limits can be exceeded to such events is controlled and measured and as prescribed by EU directives.
DNB in exceptional circumstances with the approval through loss modelling, but the accuracy supervision comprises of various qualitative of senior management.
Apart from the UK, of this exposure analysis is limited by the quality assessments, governance requirements and European and international comprehensive of data and the effectiveness of the modelling.
Amlin Europe N. V. motor liability portfolios, which have unlimited The Groups broad risk appetite guidelines provides regulatory solvency reporting to DNB, liability, all policies have a per loss limit which are set out on page 24.
It is possible that a under the rules of Solvency I. caps the size of any individual claim.
For larger catastrophe event could exceed the maximum sum insured risks, facultative reinsurance expected event loss.
This is particularly the case At 31 December 2012, the minimum required coverage may be purchased.
The Group is for the direct property proportion of the loss capital for Amlin Europe N. V. amounted to also exposed to catastrophe losses which may exposure, where models are used to calculate 105.3 million 2011: 117.0 million.
The impact many risks in a single event and again a damage factor representing the amount of minimum capital requirement is calculated reinsurance is purchased to limit the impact damage expected to exposed aggregate insured by applying fixed percentages to premiums of loss aggregation from such events.
These values from a particular scenario.
reinsurance arrangements are described in the incorrect assumptions in the damage factor At 31 December 2012, Amlin Europe N. V. section on page 119. calculation, can result in incurred catastrophe complies with external capital requirements.
event claims higher, or lower, than predicted Insurance policies are written through For trading purposes, Amlin Europe N. V. holds due to unforeseen circumstances or individual risk acceptances, reinsurance treaties capital in excess of the minimum required inadequacies in data or the models used.
or through facilities whereby the Group is by the DNB.
bound by other underwriting entities.
Facility As explained on page 119, reinsurance arrangements delegate underwriting authority is purchased to protect against the 3.
Risk disclosures to other underwriters, or to agents acting as impact of any individual or series of severe 3.1 Underwriting risk coverholders, that use their judgement to write catastrophes.
However, the price and The Group accepts underwriting risk in risks on the Groups behalf under clear availability of such cover is variable and the a range of classes of business through Lloyds authority levels.
amount of loss retained by the Group may Syndicate 2001, Amlin Europe N. V. Amlin AG therefore also increase or reduce.
The including its branch operation, Amlin Bermuda The insurance policies underwritten by the Group will alter its insurance and reinsurance and Amlin Insurance UK Ltd.
Syndicate 2001s Group are reviewed on an individual risk, exposures to take account of changes in portfolio is underwritten by Amlin London and or contract, basis and through review of reinsurance availability and cost, capital levels Amlin UK.
Prior to 1 January 2013, Syndicate portfolio performance.
Claims arising are and profitability in order to remain within the 2001 also accepted business through the reserved upon notification.
Each quarter the risk appetite guidelines.
Groups wholly owned French coverholder, entire portfolio of business is subject to a Amlin France SAS.
The latter now writes reserving process whereby levels of paid and Sections A and B below describe the insurance exclusively on behalf of Amlin Europe N. V. outstanding advised but not paid claims are and reinsurance portfolios written by the Group The bias of the Groups portfolio is towards reviewed.
Potential future claims are assessed and the associated risks of such business.
short-tail property and accident risk but liability with a provision for incurred but not reported Section C summarises the business written by coverage is also underwritten.
Whilst a detailed each operating division.
and disciplined exercise is carried out to In underwriting insurance or reinsurance provide for claims notified, it is possible that policies, the Groups underwriters use their skill known claims could develop and exceed the and knowledge to assess each risk.
information and data on past claims experience is used to evaluate the likely claims cost and Furthermore, there is increased uncertainty therefore the premium that should be sufficient in establishing an accurate provision for IBNR across a portfolio of risks to cover claims claims and there is a possibility that claims may costs, expenses and to produce an acceptable arise which, in aggregate, exceed the reserve profit.
However, due to the nature of insurance provision established.
This is partly mitigated risk, there is no guarantee that the premium by the reserving policy adopted by the Group charged will be sufficient to cover claims costs.
This shortfall may originate either from 110 110 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements A.
Direct insurance and facultative reinsurance Property insurance is written for the full value A. ii Casualty direct insurance The geographic spread of all direct insurance and of the risk, on a primary or excess of loss basis, The US casualty insurance account provides facultative reinsurance classes is shown below: through individual placements, or by way insurance cover to individuals, or companies, of delegated underwriting facilities given to in order to indemnify them against legal liability 2012 Direct insurance and facultative 2012 Direct insurance and facultative coverholders binding authorities.
Binding arising from their activities and actions or reinsurance reinsurance authority arrangements delegate the day for incidents occurring on their property.
Gross written premium by geography Gross written premium by geography to day underwriting to underwriting agents The portfolio is made up of specialist general and therefore, for these contracts the Group is casualty, professional indemnity, medical reliant on coverholders exercising underwriting malpractice and errors and omissions cover.
Coverholders must Small amounts of directors and officers have local regulatory approval, be Lloyds liability and auto liability are also written.
registered where relevant and also be approved Professional lines liability cover is written by the Local Binding Authority Committees.
This class For all binding authority facilities, the Group includes professional indemnity cover given receives monthly or quarterly bordereaux to US lawyers, accountants, architects which are checked by underwriting staff.
The underwriting is controlled by setting clear The casualty portfolio is mostly written authority levels for coverholders stipulated on a claims notified basis responding to all within the binding authority agreement, claims made during a defined period except Africa 1% North America 19% regularly monitoring performance and Africa 1% North America 19% for small amounts of general liability business Asia 3% Oceania 2% periodically carrying out underwriting visits Asia 3% Oceania 2% Caribbean 1% UK 32% which may be written on a losses occurring and or commissioning third party audits.
Caribbean 1% UK 32% Central & South Worldwide basis the policy responds to losses which occur The coverholder is incentivised to produce an Central & South Worldwide America 2%Other 16% during the period even if reported after the America 2%Other 16% underwriting profit through the payment of profit Europe 24% policy has expired.
However, with the day to day Source: Amlin Source: Amlin underwriting not controlled by the Group, there Claims from this class emanate from is a risk that coverholder underwriting, or claim professional error, negligence or an accident 2011 Direct insurance and facultative 2011 Direct insurance and facultative decisions, are made which would not have been which causes injury, damage or financial loss.
reinsurance reinsurance made by Amlin underwriters or claims staff.
The account is vulnerable to a high frequency Gross written premium by geography of claims, but not individual large losses as the Gross written premium by geography As well as natural catastrophes, the property cost to the Group of any individual claim is portfolio is also exposed to an above average small due to line size.
Claims frequency may frequency of individual fire, explosion or be impacted by a generic claim type which weather related claims.
The premium charged impacts many individuals and re insurance for the coverage given may not be sufficient to policies such as poor housing design or bad cover all claims made in any year, particularly medical practice.
The size of many individual in a year in which there is an abnormal claims is subject to the decisions arising from frequency of claims.
The US account is the US court system which can be higher than particularly exposed to large catastrophe anticipated.
There is also the potential for US events, such as California earthquake, tornado courts to impose a bad faith judgement on and hurricane losses.
insurers if it is deemed that the insurer has In the UK standalone property protection is acted improperly in trying to avoid contractual Africa 1% North America 17% written mainly on a 100% basis for small and obligations.
Such awards can, in exceptional Africa 1% North America 17% Asia 3% Oceania 2% medium commercial and household properties.
circumstances, be much higher than the value Asia 3% Oceania 2% Caribbean 1% UK 27% Package policies combine one or more liability of the insurance claim.
Caribbean 1% UK 27% Central & South Worldwide coverages mainly employers and public Central & South Worldwide America 1%Other 21% The Groups international liability portfolio liability with motor and or property damage America 1%Other 21% Europe 27% predominantly protects insureds domiciled Europe 27% protection.
The UK property owners account Source: Amlin in the UK, Ireland, France, Belgium and the has continued to develop throughout 2012.
There is also some Canadian This portfolio is exposed to European weather business.
A new international casualty team A. i Property direct and facultative conditions whereby a large windstorm, flood has recently been established to develop Property cover is provided to large commercial or winter freeze could result in a large number business in other territories including Australia.
enterprises with high value single locations of small claims.
A portfolio of professional indemnity and general and or many locations, and also for small liability business is written in the Netherlands, on commercial property.
The perils covered The European property account mainly a claims made basis with a particular focus on include fire, flood, wind and earthquake comprises large schedules of properties property related professions and miscellaneous damage.
Business interruption cover is also e. g. for municipalities written on a co-insurance professions such as travel operators.
In Belgium, provided for loss of earnings sustained due basis in the Netherlands and larger commercial medical liability and general liability are written to the perils and properties covered but may industrial clients in Belgium and France.
also be extended to connected enterprises.
Overseas exposure is written mainly from the Terrorism cover is given on a limited basis large commercial industrial portfolio where UK employers liability insurance protects particularly where required by local regulation, there are client or other incidental operations employers against accident or injury to but nuclear and bio-chemical coverage is overseas.
The engineering book includes employees.
This is written on a losses excluded from standard property cover in contractors all risks, machinery breakdown occurring basis.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 111 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 111 0QVGU VQ VJG CEEQWPVU EQPVKPWGF For the year ended 31 December 2012 3.
Risk disclosures continued liability coverage is unlimited, but matching impacted by a single or series of accidents to Public liability insurance provides coverage, reinsurance is purchased.
The account is biased high value insured individuals or from a multiple often written in conjunction with employers towards commercial clients such as coach death and injury event such as an air crash or liability, for accident or injury occurring to operators, haulage companies, commercial natural catastrophe.
clients, customers or another third party as a vehicle fleets and company executive fleets.
A. v Marine and aviation direct insurance result of contact with the insureds personnel, A small UK agriculture facility, a taxi book and and facultative reinsurance property or products.
This is written on a losses a specialist private car account are also written.
The hull and cargo account is worldwide, occurring basis.
The Benelux commercial motor account covering property damage to ships and loss, Professional indemnity covers liability is comprised of domestic company fleets or damage, to a large variety of cargo or which may arise from services provided by the including a large leasing and rental fleets, goods in transit.
The hull account can include assured, for example, as a result of negligence portfolio written in the Netherlands and machinery breakdown and the portfolio written or error which may lead to financial or physical a smaller portfolio in Belgium.
Cars, vans includes lower value tonnage, smaller brown loss.
This includes, but is not limited to, or commercial vehicles account for over water vessels and fishing boats as well as services from architects, engineers, surveyors, 70% of the book.
larger blue water ocean hull risks such as advertising firms, medical professionals and cruise liners, tankers and bulk carriers.
These Claims frequency has improved in recent financial advisors and is written on a claims accounts can be impacted by attritional claims years due to car and road safety measures, made basis.
of a small size as well as a single individual but can fluctuate due to factors such as large claim.
The cargo account in particular Since 2012, Syndicate 2001 has written a weather conditions.
Inflation is a key factor could also be involved in a major natural product recall account though a single in determining the size of motor claims.
In an economic recession, coverholder.
Product recall cover indemnifies values affect the size of theft claims and for it is expected that premium income will fall producers against the costs of replacement physical damage claims size is linked to repair as trade reduces and hull values are impacted production for specific goods.
Inflationary pressure on court awards by reduced freight rates.
It is also possible within the European legal systems impacts Through AUA Insolvency Risk Services Ltd, that claims frequency could increase due to liability claim values.
This issue is evidenced an FSA registered broker, the Group writes increased economic pressures affecting fraud in the UK through the provision for Periodic a portfolio of UK insolvency practitioners and theft claims.
Payment Orders PPOs which spread insurers business providing protection against fraud payment liabilities for bodily injury claims over The Benelux portfolio includes a commodities or negligence committed by the practitioners.
Government intervention such as book for Belgian and French trading Such cover also protects the property assets liability award limit changes or expense corporations, in addition to hull, land under their management.
recoveries for government bodies, for example equipment, shipbuilders risk, inland hull The Group also writes a small account of the UK National Health Service, will also impact and large yachts.
financial institutions policies covering fidelity, claim size.
For the motor account, severe The energy portfolio is mainly offshore rig professional indemnity and directors and bodily injury and catastrophe damage claims and construction policies, which may be officers liability for companies providing e. g. UK flood are limited through the purchase impacted by large individual claims from financial services.
The current maximum line of a reinsurance programme, the highest layer construction fault or property damage such as is 6 million.
Approximately half of the income of which is unlimited.
fire or explosion, but is also exposed to severe is from western European financial institutions Motor insurance is a highly competitive catastrophe losses, for example in the North with the balance spread broadly by territory.
area of insurance and pricing levels fluctuate.
The account includes Coverage is given on a claims made basis.
Whilst underwriters accept business subject control of well to limit loss of oil and avoid The expected claims costs from these lines to sufficient rates per vehicle, in a year where pollution and also some business interruption of business may be impacted by larger than there is an unexpectedly high level of claims cover which indemnifies companies for loss anticipated damage awards to injured parties, the total premium may not be sufficient to of production.
as well as due to an unforeseen increase in cover all the claims.
There is also a risk that War business includes marine, aviation and generic claims such as industrial disease or legal changes impact bodily injury payments on land terrorism coverage.
The account is other health hazards.
It is expected that claims and result in a requirement to increase reserves exposed to single incidents or a series of losses frequency will increase during an economic for outstanding claims.
Political risk, downturn as unemployment leads to an Auto business is also written covering property confiscation and contract frustration business increase in action against employers and people damage only fire, theft and collision in the US is also written.
are more likely to seek redress for third party and property damage and third party motor advice or behaviour which may have led to Yacht business covers property damage and liability combined cover in other international financial loss or injury.
It is also possible that third party injury for small leisure boats and territories.
This class could be impacted by multiple claims could arise under multiple craft.
The UK domestic account is smaller value unexpected claim frequency, a multi vehicle policies from a common cause such as financial yachts in the UK and Europe, although there event, such as a severe flood and also large advice or generic building defects.
The financial are a number of binders written by coverholders bodily injury award claims emanating from institutions account could be affected by a elsewhere, such as Scandinavia, Canada and an accident.
major fraud or a series of related liability claims Australia.
There is an expectation of a large arising from banking, investment activity, A. iv Personal accident direct insurance number of small claims, as average values stockbroking or other practices.
The accident and health class is written through are low in comparison to other claims written medical expense schemes in the US and direct in the Group.
Third party liability yacht claims A. iii Motor direct insurance personal accident cover on a worldwide basis.
arise from injury or damage caused by one of The Groups UK motor insurance account Medical expense cover is subject to a high our policyholders to third parties.
There is also provides protection for fire, theft, collision and frequency of claim and significant medical cost the potential for a large catastrophe loss such third party property and bodily injury liability.
Personal accident insurance could be as a UK windstorm where there are large Under the requirements of UK law, third party 112 112 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements aggregate sums insured in coastal regions such The general aviation account covers smaller B.
Treaty reinsurance as southern England.
Amlin Europe and the aircraft or cargo and covers owners or The geographic spread of all treaty wholly owned coverholder Lead Yacht write operators, against loss or damage and third reinsurance classes is shown below: shares of a portfolio of large private yachts.
The risk excess account is a book 2012 T 2012 Treaty reinsurance reaty reinsurance of general aviation reinsurance business written The marine liability portfolio is written to Gross writ Gross written premium by geography ten premium by geography to protect a small number of insurers against protect ship-owners, harbours, charterers and large general aviation claims.
energy companies against damage or injury to crew or third parties.
This includes the potential Airport liability insurance covers airport for pollution damage and clean up claims.
operators, refuellers and air traffic controllers The account could suffer a large catastrophe against losses arising from injury caused by incident from a collision causing death of crew their activities or occurring on their premises.
and passengers or an oil, or chemical, spill Product liability covers manufacturers which could incur large clean up costs.
against accidents arising from faulty parts or equipment, or poor servicing of aircraft.
Specie, bloodstock and livestock business are Both airport and product liability coverage is also written within the Marine and Aviation written on a losses occurring basis meaning Business Unit of Syndicate 2001. that claims advices can be made after the Specie business consists of the insurance policy has expired.
Space liability insurance Africa 1% North America 44% Africa 1% North America 44% against damage or theft to fine art, the contents covers launch and operation of satellites Asia 9% Oceania 5% Asia 9% Oceania 5% of vaults and other high value goods including whilst in orbit for a limited period, normally Caribbean 5% UK 12% Caribbean 5% UK 12% jewellers block and cash in transit.
Central & South Worldwide Central & South Worldwide America 1%Other 2% art may be shown at exhibitions which have America 1%Other 2% The aviation account is subject to both small Europe 21% very high aggregate values at risk.
The class Europe 21% and large claims.
Claims involving loss of life Source: Amlin is therefore exposed to the potential for a Source: Amlin or serious injury to high earning passengers or frequency of small claims and also large third parties are subject to the ongoing inflation individual losses.
Some specie is written 2011 T 2011 Treaty reinsurance reaty reinsurance of court awards particularly in the US.
Large in catastrophe zones e. g. California and may Gross written premium by geography accidents involving the potential death of 500 Gross written premium by geography be exposed to terrorist events.
or more passengers are feasible and could The bloodstock account provides coverage potentially result in a gross claim to the for death, illness or injury to horses mainly in business of more than the vertical reinsurance the UK.
Business from the US, Australia and programme if, for example, two large aircraft South Africa is also written.
This covers racing were to collide.
The principal aviation accounts or eventing horses and breeding studs.
The are protected by a reinsurance programme on average value insured is below 1 million but both a risk sharing proportional and excess of there is the potential for an aggregate loss, loss basis.
The Group reinsurance arrangements such as a stable fire, which could cause are discussed on page 119. multiple claims.
A. vi Special risks direct insurance Crowe Livestock, a leading Lloyds coverholder The direct special risks class is largely for the insurance of livestock writes a broad made up of insurance of nuclear installations, Africa 1% North America 50% portfolio of protection for livestock and contingency business and film finance risk.
Africa 1% North America 50% Asia 8% Oceania 7% specialist products such as zoo animals, with Asia 8% Oceania 7% Transmission and distribution business is also Caribbean 4% UK 11% a maximum line of any one policy of US$10 Caribbean 4% UK 11% Central & South Worldwide written.
This account is generally written million.
The company also writes employers Central & South Worldwide America 1%Other 2% without reinsurance protection.
America 1%Other 2% liability cover for livestock business up to a limit Europe 16% Europe 16% of 10 million.
Again, an event affecting several There is a small portfolio of captive business Source: Amlin Source: Amlin animals across many policies such as disease written in Belgium as fronting for captive could result in a loss significantly higher reinsurers of large industrial companies.
B. i Property reinsurance than this.
Captives are subject to detailed financial Catastrophe reinsurance protects insurance analysis to manage potential credit risk.
companies against catastrophic losses, such as The aviation airline account is exposed windstorm or earthquake, which may impact to large claims arising from property damage, more than one risk written by the client.
The death or injury arising from aircraft accidents.
catastrophe excess of loss portfolio is a key part The domicile of the airline and passengers has of the reinsurance risk written by the Group.
a notable influence on the cost of claims, for example US court awards are generally higher.
These programmes are placed on a layered or excess of loss basis.
Territorial exposures, from a number of programmes, are carefully recorded and analysed through loss simulations or realistic disaster scenarios but represent significant loss exposure to natural or man made catastrophes.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 113 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 113 0QVGU VQ VJG CEEQWPVU EQPVKPWGF For the year ended 31 December 2012 3.
Risk disclosures continued original premium and the investment income Per risk property reinsurance is also written generated are expected to be more than on an excess of loss basis but covers loss or sufficient to meet such claims, there is no damage to any single risk within the reinsureds guarantee that this will be the case, portfolio.
This portfolio protects insureds particularly due to inflation or superimposed against large individual property losses and will inflation resulting from changes to court also be affected by large catastrophe losses.
The aim is to diversify the portfolio across several territories in order to reduce Proportional property reinsurance covers a the impact of a single legal jurisdiction proportionate share of a reinsureds portfolio revising its claims policy.
of business subject to payment of commission and or profit commission.
Proportional B. iv Personal accident reinsurance property business is normally written with Personal accident reinsurance is written an occurrence limit.
Such business could be impacted by a single or series of accidents The Groups portfolio of property to high value insured individuals or from reinsurance business is written with the aim a multiple death and injury event, such as of achieving territorial diversification.
However, an air crash or natural catastrophe.
as experienced in 2011, a single or series of severe catastrophes to major economic zones B. v Marine and aviation reinsurance in Europe, Japan, Australasia or the US is likely The Groups portfolio of aviation and marine to result in a loss to the portfolio prior to excess of loss reinsurance protects insurers retrocessional reinsurance.
For each operating against losses to their direct portfolios of division, overall catastrophe loss limits are business on a worldwide basis.
This will applied in relation to specific scenarios as an include offshore energy business, specie and allocation of total Group tolerances.
other static risks written in reinsured companies marine portfolios.
The marine B. ii Casualty reinsurance account, in particular, is exposed to The US casualty reinsurance account catastrophe losses as well as large individual provides cover for reinsureds in respect of legal risk losses.
liability arising from insureds activities and actions or for incidents occurring on insureds B. vi Special risks reinsurance properties.
The portfolio is written on both an The special risks reinsurance account is excess of loss and proportional basis but most predominantly made up of terrorism excess underlying policies are on a claims notified of loss and nuclear reinsurance emanating basis responding to all claims made during from all parts of the world and written without a defined period.
The portfolio includes excess of loss reinsurance protection.
The specialist general casualty, professional portfolio also includes short-term trade credit indemnity, medical malpractice and errors and and contingency business as well as trade omissions cover.
Small amounts of directors credit reinsurance which protects reinsureds and officers liability and auto liability are against the non-payment of monies or goods also written.
or services due from trade partners locally or overseas.
Satellite physical damage cover is US Workers Compensation Act casualty clash also written in the special risks account.
excess of loss business may be impacted by large catastrophic events such as earthquake.
International liability reinsurance business is mainly general third party liability protecting companies against significant public or products liability claims, written on a proportional or excess of loss basis.
The liability account also includes some professional liability reinsurance.
The construction and engineering portfolio provides liability and property reinsurance cover for construction projects which may be of several years duration.
B. iii Motor reinsurance Motor reinsurance is written on a proportional and excess of loss basis.
This portfolio is at risk from increases in frequency or severity of motor accident claims, bodily injury or third party property claims payments which may take several years to settle.
Unlimited and limited motor business is written.
Whilst the 114 114 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements C. Business written and maximum risk limit by operating divisions Direct insurance and facultative reinsurance Amlin Amlin Amlin London UK Europe Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Gross Gross Gross London UK Europe London UK Europe written written written Max Max Max Average Average Average premium premium premium line size line size line size line size line size line size At 31 December 2012 m m m m m m m m m i Property direct and facultative Direct and facultative property 112 23 3 Binding authorities 33 2 1 UK Europe property package 140 135 52 50 1 5 ii Casualty direct insurance International casualty 3 17 6 Casualty 193 1 Professional lines 67 1 Employers liability 22 27 10 Liability 9813 2 Public products liability 24 12 4 Financial institutions fidelity and liability 766 22 Professional indemnity 38 16 2 Engineering 2725 4 iii Motor direct insurance US International auto 28 1 1 UK Europe motor 132 45 Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited iv Personal accident direct insurance Accident and health 30 3 1 v Marine and aviation direct insurance and facultative reinsurance Hull 40811325 2 3 Cargo 31732025 5 1 Energy 6725 4 War and terrorism 34 50 10 Specie 1524 6 Bloodstock livestock 274 1 Yacht hull & liability 30 5 2 Liability 3657 6 Protection and indemnity 74 50 20 Airline hull & liability 19 84 26 General aviation hull & liability 8 57 15 Risk excess 5 57 8 Airports liability 8 57 27 Products 550 20 Space liability 2 40 14 vi Special risks direct insurance Special risks 6 23 97 25 8 5 Total direct insurance and facultative reinsurance 564363556 Note: 1.
Amlin London limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling at a rate of exchange of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency rate of exchange changes may increase or reduce the sterling limits.
Amlin London maximum line size is after business written and ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Europe.
Gross written premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and excludes adjustments in respect of prior periods.
Amlin London and Amlin UK gross written premiums are converted to sterling using the average rate of exchange for the month in which they are written.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 115 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 115 0QVGU VQ VJG CEEQWPVU EQPVKPWGF For the year ended 31 December 2012 3.
Risk disclosures continued C. Business written and maximum risk limit by operating divisions Direct insurance and facultative reinsurance Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin London UK Europe Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin UK Europe Gross Gross Gross London UK Europe London Average Average written written written Max Max Max Average premium premium premium line size line size line size line size line size line size At 31 December 2011 m m m m m m m m m i Property direct and facultative Direct and facultative property 84 23 3 Binding authorities 28 2 1 UK Europe property package 115 81 52 50 1 5 ii Casualty direct insurance International casualty Casualty 19 3 1 Professional lines Employers liability 14 27 10 Liability 95 13 2 Public products liability 19 12 4 Financial institutions fidelity and liability 56 2 Professional indemnity 24 7 2 Engineering 30 25 4 iii Motor direct insurance US International auto 27 3 1 UK Europe motor 127 46 Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited iv Personal accident direct insurance Accident and health 28 3 1 v Marine and aviation direct insurance and facultative reinsurance Hull 37 130 10 25 2 3 Cargo 29 136 17 25 5 1 Energy 64 25 5 War and terrorism 36 50 10 Specie 12 24 6 Bloodstock livestock 27 4 1 Yacht hull & liability 32 5 1 Liability 33 57 6 Protection and indemnity 62 50 19 Airline hull & liability 21 84 31 General aviation hull & liability 13 57 18 Risk excess 6 57 12 Airports liability 9 57 29 Products 6 50 22 Space liability 5 46 9 vi Special risks direct insurance Special risks 5 67 Total direct insurance and facultative reinsurance 521 304 580 Note: 1.
Amlin London maximum line size is after business written and ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda.
116 116 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements C. Business written and maximum risk limit by operating divisions Treaty reinsurance Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin London Bermuda Re Europe Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Re Europe Gross Gross Gross London Bermuda Re Europe London Bermuda written written written Max Max Max Average Average Average premium premium premium line size line size line size line size line size line size At 31 December 2012 m US$m m m US$m m m US$m m i Property reinsurance Catastrophe reinsurance per programme 274 310 39 57 75 20 4 7 4 Per risk property reinsurance per programme 71 60 21 23 13 20 2 3 3 Proportional reinsurance 42 77 46 5 13 20 2 1 1 Engineering 2220 2 ii Casualty reinsurance International casualty 1 17 4 Casualty 36935 1 1 Liability 1420 1 iii Motor reinsurance Motor limited 45 20 2 vi Personal accident reinsurance Personal accident 43 10 20 51 v Marine and aviation reinsurance Marine reinsurance per programme 25 3 8 76 75 20 2 13 1 Aviation reinsurance per programme 4 31 2 vi Special risks reinsurance Special risks 27 67 6 38 40 20 3 5 2 Surety 15 1 Total treaty reinsurance 480 530 205 Note: 1.
Amlin London gross written premiums are converted to sterling using the average rate of exchange for the month in which they are written.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 117 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 117 0QVGU VQ VJG CEEQWPVU EQPVKPWGF For the year ended 31 December 2012 3.
Risk disclosures continued C. Business written and maximum risk limit by operating divisions Treaty reinsurance Amlin Amlin Amlin London Bermuda Re Europe Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Gross Gross Gross London Bermuda Re Europe London Bermuda Re Europe written written written Max Max Max Average Average Average premium premium premium line size line size line size line size line size line size At 31 December 2011 m US$m m m US$m m m US$m m i Property reinsurance Catastrophe reinsurance per programme 257 328 62 75 20 5 8 Per risk property reinsurance per programme 69 72 42 25 13 20 2 3 2 Proportional reinsurance 41 89 13 20 2 2 Engineering 14 20 2 ii Casualty reinsurance International casualty Casualty 34 12 3 5 1 1 Liability 27 20 1 iii Motor reinsurance Motor limited 36 20 7 vi Personal accident reinsurance Personal accident 2 2 10 20 4 2 v Marine and aviation reinsurance Marine reinsurance per programme 20 4 3 81 75 20 2 11 1 Aviation reinsurance per programme 2 33 2 vi Special risks reinsurance Special risks 20 47 1 41 40 20 4 4 5 Surety 1 5 2 Total treaty reinsurance 443 554 125 Note: 1.
118 118 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Reinsurance and other risk mitigation occurring.
It should also be noted that the renewal However, in 2012 the programme was arrangements restructured to provide first loss protection date of the reinsurance programmes does not In December 2011, the Group acquired necessarily correspond to that of the business in excess of US$60 million for international coverage for US hurricane, US earthquake catastrophe losses.
With effect from 1 January written.
Where business is not protected by risk and European windstorm perils of up to 2013 first loss protection for US catastrophe attaching reinsurance which provides coverage US$150 million from a Bermudian special losses is available in excess of US$95 million for the duration of all the policies written this purpose insurer, Tramline Re Ltd, which in turn for Florida windstorm with lower deductibles reinsurance protection could expire resulting in placed a catastrophe bond into the capital applicable depending on state and peril.
an increase in possible loss retained by the Group markets.
This transaction provides the Group In addition, the combined aggregate and if renewal of the programme is not achieved.
with fully collateralised protection over a three catastrophe protection has been renewed Realistic Disaster Scenario RDS analysis year period from 1 January 2012 and is in to provide lower level cover in the event of The Group has a defined event risk tolerance addition to the protection the Group purchases multiple losses to the portfolio.
which determines the maximum net loss that through the traditional reinsurance In 2012 the excess of loss programme purchased the Group intends to limit its exposure with marketplace.
The bond provides significant by Amlin Bermuda was also restructured to respect to major modelled catastrophe event protection against a remote aggregation of provide first event cover for international losses scenarios.
Currently this is a maximum catastrophe events for the Group.
Through the at a similar level to the Amlin London placement of 350 million for the Group.
The Group use of an aggregate trigger it protects against with enhanced first event cover for US losses Catastrophe Risk team are responsible both severity and frequency of losses.
With effect for aggregating potential scenarios and January 2013 first loss cover for US Syndicate 2001 purchases proportional from 1 at 1 January 2013, levels of exposure were reinsurance to supplement line size and to catastrophe losses is available in excess of significantly below the potential maximum US$75 million for Florida windstorm with lower reduce exposure on individual risks, notably tolerance, one of the largest being the Northfor aviation and large property risks.
Part of the deductibles applicable depending on other states East US windstorm scenario at 268 million for and perils.
In addition the combined aggregate premium ceded under such facilities is placed the Group.
At present the Group is not utilising with Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Europe N. V. A and catastrophe excess of loss protection has the full extent of its risk tolerance.
separate proportional facility protects the These scenarios are extraordinary events with excess of loss reinsurance portfolio through a Amlin Re Europe places quota share and an occurrence probability of less than 1 in 100 Special Purpose Syndicate at Lloyds, Syndicate catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance to years estimated for the natural peril or 6106.
Syndicate 2001 also purchases a number protect the property portfolio.
The Group also adopts risk of excess of loss reinsurances to protect itself of loss protection is also purchased.
tolerance maximum net limits for a number from severe frequency or size of losses.
of other non-elemental scenarios, including The structure of the programme and type of Amlin Europe N. V. purchases a comprehensive aviation collision and North Sea rig loss.
protection bought will vary from year to year programme for each class of business.
Specific depending on the availability and price of cover.
cover is placed for engineering, personal The risk tolerance policy recognises that there accident, motor, liability and marine exposures.
may be circumstances in which the net event On large risks, individual facultative reinsurance The property account is protected by both limit could be exceeded.
Such circumstances may be bought which protects against a loss per risk and catastrophe excess of loss include changes in rates of exchange, non to that specific risk.
programmes, with the latter additionally renewal or delay in renewal of reinsurance Specific risk excess of loss reinsurance is protecting European property business written protection, reinsurance security failure, or purchased for each class of business.
amount of cover bought depends upon the There is no guarantee that reinsurance A detailed analysis of catastrophe exposures is line size written for each class.
The deductibles, coverage will be available to meet all potential carried out every quarter and measured against or amounts borne prior to recovery, vary loss circumstances as, for very severe risk tolerance.
The following assumptions and from class to class as do the amounts of catastrophe losses, it is possible that the full procedures are used in the process: co-reinsurance or unplaced protection.
Specific extent of the cover bought is not sufficient.
Any programmes are purchased to deal with large The data used reflects the information loss amount which exceeds the programme individual risk losses, such as fire or large supplied to the Group by insureds and ceding would be retained by the Group.
It is also energy losses, and these programmes may companies.
This may prove to be incomplete, possible that a dispute could arise with a be combined at a higher level into a general inaccurate or could develop during the reinsurer which reduces the recovery made.
policy period: The reinsurance programme is bought to cover UK direct property business is protected by a the expected claims arising on the original The exposures are modelled using a mixture European wind programme which also protects portfolio.
However, it is possible for there to be of stochastic models and underwriter input Amlin Europe N. V. a mismatch, or a gap in cover, which would to arrive at damage factors these factors result in a higher than expected retained loss.
are then applied to the assumed aggregate The combined claims to Syndicate 2001 from exposure to produce gross loss estimates.
The several losses which aggregate in a single Many parts of the programme also have limited damage factors may prove to be inadequate: catastrophe event are protected by catastrophe reinstatements and therefore the number of cover.
A separate excess of loss programme claims which may be recovered from second or The reinsurance programme as purchased is purchased to protect the excess of loss subsequent major losses is limited.
It is possible is applied a provision for reinsurer reinsurance portfolio against such losses.
Since for the programme to be exhausted by a series of counterparty failure is included in the 2006, the amount of excess of loss reinsurance losses in one annual period and it may not be analysis but may prove to be inadequate: and purchased is lower and in 2011 first loss cover possible to purchase additional reinsurance at all Reinstatement premiums both payable and responded to losses exceeding US$135 million.
or for an acceptable price.
This would result in the receivable are included.
Group bearing higher losses from further events Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 119 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 119 0QVGU VQ VJG CEEQWPVU EQPVKPWGF For the year ended 31 December 2012 3.
The development period varies process along these lines.
For Amlin Europe, There is no guarantee that the assumptions and by class, by method of acceptance and is also given that data is readily available in this techniques deployed in calculating these event determined by the deductible of each policy format, triangles with accident year cohorts loss estimate figures are accurate.
For casualty business, the policy form are used together with earned premiums to will determine whether claims can be made estimate the IBNR required on a GAAP basis Furthermore, there could also be a loss which on a claims made as advised or as a losses directly.
Triangles on an underwriting year basis exceeds these figures.
The likelihood of such a occurring determined by date of loss basis.
are available for Amlin Europe marine business catastrophe is considered to be remote, but the This has a significant impact on the reporting and projections based on those triangles also most severe scenarios modelled are simulated period in which claims can be notified.
feed into the reserving discussions.
events and these simulations could prove to be unreliable.
Amlin London, Amlin UK and Amlin Bermuda Areas of uncertainty To establish a provision for IBNR claims, the The reserves established can be more or less Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets: underwriting and claims teams in the UK and than adequate to meet eventual claims arising.
Calculation of incurred but not reported IBNR Bermuda use their experience and knowledge The level of uncertainty varies significantly from and claims development of the class of business to estimate the class to class but can arise from inadequate The Group adopts a rigorous process in the potential future development of each class for case reserves for known large losses and calculation of an adequate provision for every underwriting year.
In setting the IBNR catastrophes or from inadequate provision insurance claim liabilities.
The overriding aim is provision estimates are made for the ultimate for IBNR.
The impact on profit before tax to establish reserves which are expected to be premium and ultimate gross claims value for of a 1% improvement deterioration in the total at least adequate and that there is consistency each underwriting year.
Allowance is then made net claims reserves would be 26.0 million from year to year.
Therefore, the level of for anticipated reinsurance recoveries to reach gain loss 2011: 26.6 million.
reserves are set at a level above the actuarial a net claim position.
Reinsurance recoveries best estimate position.
However, there is a Large loss case reserves are determined are calculated for outstanding and IBNR risk that, due to unforeseen circumstances, through careful analysis of the individual claim, claims, sometimes through the use of historical the reserves carried are not sufficient to meet often with the advice of legal advisers.
Claims recovery rates or statistical projections, and insurance claim liabilities reported in future arising from events such as the 11 September provisions are made as appropriate for bad years on policy periods which have expired.
2001 terrorist attacks in the US are examples debt or possible disputes.
The component of of cases where there continues to be some Process and methodology ultimate IBNR provision estimates and uncertainty over the eventual value of claims.
The reserving process commences with the reinsurance recoveries that relates to future proper recording and reporting of claims events occurring to the existing portfolio is Property catastrophe claims, such as information which consists of paid and notified removed in order to reflect generally accepted earthquake or hurricane losses, can take several or outstanding claims.
For the London market accounting practice.
months, or years, to develop as adjusters visit business information is received through damaged property and agree claim valuations.
The actuarial team independently produce Xchanging the London market bureau and, Until all the claims are settled it requires an ultimate premium and claims projections on a in the case of Amlin UK business, service analysis of the area damaged, contracts strict best estimate basis utilising the same data companies, Amlin Europe, Amlin Bermuda and exposed and the use of models to simulate the as the underwriting and claims teams.
Meetings Amlin Re Europe, directly from brokers and loss against the portfolio of exposure in order to are held for each Division in which executive policyholders.
Claims records are maintained arrive at an estimate of ultimate loss to the management, actuarial staff and business for each policy and class.
There is uncertainty over the adequacy management discuss claims issues and the outstanding claims, a case reserve is of information and modelling of major losses for estimates produced by the underwriting and established based on the views of underwriting a period of several months after a catastrophe claim teams are compared against the actuarial management and claims managers, using loss.
Account should also be taken of factors estimates.
Any unexpected differences are external legal or expert advice where which may influence the size of claims such as discussed and investigated further if necessary.
This reserve is expected to be increased inflation or a change in law.
Best estimate IBNR is adjusted in a similar sufficient to meet the claim payment when manner to the proposed IBNR in order to The long tail liability classes, for which a it is finally determined.
For some classes remove the element that relates to future large IBNR has to be established, represent of business, particularly liability business, events and is once more compared with the the most difficult classes to reserve because settlement may be several years after the proposed IBNR.
All of this is undertaken for claims are notified and settled several years initial notification of the claim, as it may be inwards business gross of reinsurance and for after the expiry of the policy concerned.
subject to complexities or court action.
This is particularly the case for liability business claims received from Xchanging, the market written on a losses occurring basis.
reserve is generally set by the lead underwriter, Final reserve submissions are provided for the but there are circumstances on larger claims approval of Boards, as required.
The use of historical development data is where the Group will post higher reserves than fundamental to reserving these classes.
It is Amlin Europe and Amlin Re Europe those notified.
used in conjunction with the advice of lawyers For Amlin Europe and Amlin Re Europe the and third party claims adjusters on material To assist with the process of determining process is similar to that for Amlin London, single claims.
Known changes to wordings or the reserves, triangulation statistics for each Amlin UK and Amlin Bermuda except for the the claims environment are also considered.
class are produced which show the historical following differences.
The underwriting and development of premium, as well as paid actuarial teams together produce a proposed The allocation of IBNR to the reinsurance and incurred losses, for each year of account best estimate onto which an appropriate margin programme is an uncertain exercise as there using either accident year or underwriting year is added and there is therefore only one set of is limited knowledge of the size or number of cohorts.
In all cases, the different potential numbers for discussion.
The intention is to future claims advices.
The assumption over development of each class of business is fully move all entities to a consistent reserving future reinsurance recoveries may be incorrect 120 120 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements and unforeseen disputes could arise which A significant change in the portfolio of would reduce recoveries made.
business could result in the past not being a reliable guide to the future: The estimated premium income in respect of facility contracts, for example binding Changing external environmental factors may authorities and lineslips, is deemed to be not be assessed accurately: written in full at the inception of the contract Model risk may be significant in such a but actual premium may exceed or fail to meet complex and developing discipline: initial estimates.
The magnitude of claims arising from such facilities may differ from Key assumptions over levels of correlation estimates as a result of differences between between classes may over time prove to be incorrect: and estimated and actual premium.
Internal capital modelling of risk Catastrophe model inputs, which estimate To improve the Groups risk management the severity and frequency of large capability, and assessment of capital catastrophes on the portfolio, may requirements, the Group has developed a be incorrect.
This enables standalone The result reproduced in the table below modelling for each entity as well as a represents the modelled loss sustained consolidated Group total position.
The output by the business from a single 1 in 200 year from the model includes a distribution of event i. e. at the 0.5 percentile.
This probability outcomes of all material risks, giving is the calculation benchmark required by the distributions for: reserves for prior written FSA and Lloyds.
However, it does not liabilities, investment performance and new represent the level of capital required for the business underwriting performance.
The result Group to support current and expected is a combined view of the expected best business levels, which should be considered estimate mean profitability and the range of over a longer period of modelling.
the Group is required to carry higher levels of The model requires the input of a large number capital which are considered sufficient by the of explicit parameters.
Those inputs are based rating agencies and clients.
on many different sources of information 2013 forecast unaudited m including detailed historical data on premium Underwriting risk 329 and claims, forecast income and exposures, estimated rating levels and catastrophe loss Reserving risk 244 data from proprietary models applied to the Credit reinsurance counterparty risk 24 Groups portfolio.
It enables projection of an Investment market risk 45 estimated mean ultimate loss ratio and the Liquidity risk 3 distribution of results around it.
The model Operational risk 38 explicitly recognises diversification credit, Currency risk 54 since class results are not all strongly correlated Diversified result 737 and thus individual classes are unlikely to all produce losses or profits in the same year.
All figures are based on business plan forecasts which are Due to the inherent uncertainty of predicting subject to regular review to take account of changes in the the key drivers of business performance, trading environment, interest rate outlook and movements including in particular claims levels, any in rates of exchange.
individual simulation of the model viewed in 2.
These figures are derived from the Group Internal Model and based on data as at 31 December 2012. isolation cannot be relied upon as an accurate 3.
Capital has been allocated to risk categories using the forecast.
However, the output from many Percentile Layer Capital Allocation approach.
It should thousands of simulated results can provide be recognised that allocating capital has a number of limitations and different allocations can be obtained a picture of the possible distribution of business by using alternative allocation approaches.
This output is useful in developing 4.
an understanding of the losses which may 5.
Investment market risk includes explicit modelling of currency risk.
be borne by the business at varying levels 6.
Non-sterling amounts have been converted of probability.
at market rates of exchange as at 31 December 2012 US$1.62: CAN$1.61: 1.23.
There are a large number of uncertainties and 7.
Figures include an allowance for investment returns difficulties in achieving accurate results from generated on assets backing the insurance liabilities i. e. discounting.
Some of the key issues are: 8.
Investment income includes Group corporate surplus assets.
The model is based on a best estimate view 9.
No credit has been taken for carried reserve margins.
of business volumes and rate expectations, which may not be borne out in practice: Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 121 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 121 0QVGU VQ VJG CEEQWPVU EQPVKPWGF For the year ended 31 December 2012 3.
Risk disclosures continued Claims development The tables below illustrate the development of the estimates of ultimate cumulative claims for the consolidated Group excluding Amlin Europe, Amlin London, Amlin UK, Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Re Europe after the end of the underwriting year, illustrating how amounts estimated have changed from the first estimates made.
Tables for Amlin Europe have been constructed on an accident year basis.
All tables are prepared excluding the effect of intra Group reinsurance arrangements and are prepared on an undiscounted basis.
Non-sterling balances have been converted using 2012 exchange rates to aid comparability.
In part, this arises from the Groups reserving philosophy which aims to make the most recent years, with the greatest uncertainty of result, prudently reserved leaving a potential for subsequent release.
This differs from the 100.0 million release in reserves stated in the claims development table above as the table is on an underwriting year basis and the surpluses in this narrative are on an annually accounted basis.
The table above excludes any net aggregate reserve releases from 2002 and prior years.
Also the table above excludes Amlin Europe, which is disclosed on an accident year basis and for which net reserve releases are 32.2 million 2011: 6.6 million.
The Amlin Europe table also excludes any net aggregate reserve releases from 2002 and prior years.
Further details on these reserve releases and other aspects of the underwriting performance are included in the Performance section of this Annual Report.
