0QVGU VQ VJG CEEQWPVU EQPVKPWGF For the year ended 31 December 2012 2.
Capital continued insufficient premium being calculated and which is to carry reserves in excess of the The ECR is calculated on an annual basis charged or may result from an unexpected, actuarial best estimate.
through either the Bermuda Solvency Capital or unprecedented, high level of claims.
The review of claims arising may result in Requirement BSCR model or an approved A number of controls are deployed to limit the underwriters adjusting pricing levels to cater for internal model.
In addition, as a Class IV amount of insurance exposure underwritten.
an unexpectedly higher trend of claims advices insurer, the company is required to maintain Each year a business plan is prepared and or payments.
However, this may not be possible a minimum liquidity ratio such that the value agreed by the boards of Amlin plc and its in a competitive market and underwriters may of relevant assets is not less than 75% of its subsidiaries which is used to monitor the respond either by accepting business with lower relevant liabilities.
Amlin AG met this amount of premium income, and exposure, expected profit margins or declining to renew requirement at 31 December 2012. to be written in total and for each class of policies and thus reducing income.
Also, there For trading purposes, Amlin AG believes that business.
Progress against this plan is is a portfolio of risks already underwritten which it is necessary to hold at least US$1 billion monitored during the year.
cannot be re-priced until renewal at the end of capital, which is currently in excess of the of the policy period.
The Group also operates line guides that minimum required by the BMA and FINMA.
determine the maximum liability per policy The Group is exposed to the impact of large Amlin Europe N. V. is required to hold regulatory that can be written for each class on a gross catastrophe events such as windstorms, capital in compliance with the rules issued by or net of facultative reinsurance basis by each earthquakes or terrorist incidents.
Exposure its regulator fide Nederlandsche Bank DNB, underwriter.
These limits can be exceeded to such events is controlled and measured and as prescribed by EU directives.
DNB in exceptional circumstances with the approval through loss modelling, but the accuracy supervision comprises of various qualitative of senior management.
Apart from the UK, of this exposure analysis is limited by the quality assessments, governance requirements and European and international comprehensive of data and the effectiveness of the modelling.
Amlin Europe N. V. motor liability portfolios, which have unlimited The Groups broad risk appetite guidelines provides regulatory solvency reporting to DNB, liability, all policies have a per loss limit which are set out on page 24.
It is possible that a under the rules of Solvency I. caps the size of any individual claim.
For larger catastrophe event could exceed the maximum sum insured risks, facultative reinsurance expected event loss.
This is particularly the case At 31 December 2012, the minimum required coverage may be purchased.
The Group is for the direct property proportion of the loss capital for Amlin Europe N. V. amounted to also exposed to catastrophe losses which may exposure, where models are used to calculate 105.3 million 2011: 117.0 million.
The impact many risks in a single event and again a damage factor representing the amount of minimum capital requirement is calculated reinsurance is purchased to limit the impact damage expected to exposed aggregate insured by applying fixed percentages to premiums of loss aggregation from such events.
These values from a particular scenario.
reinsurance arrangements are described in the incorrect assumptions in the damage factor At 31 December 2012, Amlin Europe N. V. section on page 119. calculation, can result in incurred catastrophe complies with external capital requirements.
event claims higher, or lower, than predicted Insurance policies are written through For trading purposes, Amlin Europe N. V. holds due to unforeseen circumstances or individual risk acceptances, reinsurance treaties capital in excess of the minimum required inadequacies in data or the models used.
or through facilities whereby the Group is by the DNB.
bound by other underwriting entities.
Facility As explained on page 119, reinsurance arrangements delegate underwriting authority is purchased to protect against the 3.
Risk disclosures to other underwriters, or to agents acting as impact of any individual or series of severe 3.1 Underwriting risk coverholders, that use their judgement to write catastrophes.
However, the price and The Group accepts underwriting risk in risks on the Groups behalf under clear availability of such cover is variable and the a range of classes of business through Lloyds authority levels.
amount of loss retained by the Group may Syndicate 2001, Amlin Europe N. V. Amlin AG therefore also increase or reduce.
The including its branch operation, Amlin Bermuda The insurance policies underwritten by the Group will alter its insurance and reinsurance and Amlin Insurance UK Ltd.
Syndicate 2001s Group are reviewed on an individual risk, exposures to take account of changes in portfolio is underwritten by Amlin London and or contract, basis and through review of reinsurance availability and cost, capital levels Amlin UK.
Prior to 1 January 2013, Syndicate portfolio performance.
Claims arising are and profitability in order to remain within the 2001 also accepted business through the reserved upon notification.
Each quarter the risk appetite guidelines.
Groups wholly owned French coverholder, entire portfolio of business is subject to a Amlin France SAS.
The latter now writes reserving process whereby levels of paid and Sections A and B below describe the insurance exclusively on behalf of Amlin Europe N. V. outstanding advised but not paid claims are and reinsurance portfolios written by the Group The bias of the Groups portfolio is towards reviewed.
Potential future claims are assessed and the associated risks of such business.
short-tail property and accident risk but liability with a provision for incurred but not reported Section C summarises the business written by coverage is also underwritten.
Whilst a detailed each operating division.
and disciplined exercise is carried out to In underwriting insurance or reinsurance provide for claims notified, it is possible that policies, the Groups underwriters use their skill known claims could develop and exceed the and knowledge to assess each risk.
information and data on past claims experience is used to evaluate the likely claims cost and Furthermore, there is increased uncertainty therefore the premium that should be sufficient in establishing an accurate provision for IBNR across a portfolio of risks to cover claims claims and there is a possibility that claims may costs, expenses and to produce an acceptable arise which, in aggregate, exceed the reserve profit.
However, due to the nature of insurance provision established.
This is partly mitigated risk, there is no guarantee that the premium by the reserving policy adopted by the Group charged will be sufficient to cover claims costs.
This shortfall may originate either from 110 110
