Glossary of terms Accident year CDOs Endorsement The calendar or accounting year in which a Collateralised debt obligations.
Entities owning Any addition to a policy, or addition to the printed loss occurs.
cash generating assets, which sell the rights to wording, which changes or varies terms of, or the cash flows from those assets along with parties to, the contract.
Actuarial best estimate associated risks.
An estimate produced by Amlins in-house Excess of loss reinsurance XL actuarial team using statistical methods overlaid Cede A reinsurance that covers that part of a loss with judgement and intended to represent the To transfer risk from a direct insurer to paid by the reinsured which is in excess of an probability-weighted average of all possible future his reinsurers.
agreed amount and then pays up to the limit outcomes with the exception of unforeseen of the policy.
Claims ratio events and the emergence of new types of Net claims plus claims expenses divided Expense ratio claims.
The estimate therefore intentionally does by net earned premium.
Underwriting expenses divided by net earned not include any risk margin to allow for the premium.
uncertainties within the claims process.
Actual Co-insurance claims experience will not develop exactly as In the context of the European insurance market, Facultative projected and may, in fact, vary significantly from co-insurance is the joint assumption of risk Where the insurer accepts risks on an the projections.
No allowance is made for between a number of insurers.
discounting except where explicitly highlighted.
Combined ratio Gross and net underwriting AIR Claims ratio plus expense ratio.
When referring to premium written or earned, Service providing up-to-date information and loss losses or underwriting results, these terms denote Commercial combined estimates for major natural catastrophes before gross and after net the application Also known as Package.
different types of insurance cover are combined Beurs into one policy.
IBNR The Dutch corporate co-insurance market.
An estimate of claims or losses which have been Contingent capital incurred but not yet reported to the insurer.
Binders Binding authority Contingent capital arrangements provide the An authority granted by an active underwriter to option to raise capital during a defined IFRS an intermediary whereby that intermediary is commitment period based upon the occurrence International Financial Reporting Standards.
entitled to accept, within certain limits, insurance of a qualifying event, such as a defined Incurred loss business on behalf of members.
Paid claims plus claims advised by a policyholder Box at Lloyds Coverholder but not paid.
Accommodation in the underwriting room at A company authorised by a Lloyds syndicate Incurred loss ratio Lloyds from which business may be transacted to enter into contracts of insurance and or issue Incurred losses divided by earned premium.
insurance documentation on their behalf.
Lead non-lead Capacity DFA Lead denotes an underwriter in the subscription The maximum amount of business which may Dynamic Financial Analysis uses a detailed market who sets the terms and price of a policy.
be accepted by a Lloyds syndicate.
modelling assessment of the key risks facing an Following underwriters accept the policy on the insurer to help assess its financial position.
Key Carried Reserves same terms.
areas of use include the assessment of capital Managements best estimate of the appropriate requirements and understanding the possible Letter of credit LOC amount of reserves to hold at the balance sheet impact of future plans and strategies.
Written undertaking by a financial institution date.
The carried reserves take account of to provide funding if required.
specific uncertainties in the reserves and are Direct and facultative higher than the actual best estimate.
Direct property insurance and facultative Line size reinsurance of property.
The monetary limit of a policy for a first claim Catastrophe bonds accepted by an underwriter.
Risk-based securities that pay high interest rates Earned premium and provide insurance companies with a form of Proportion of insurance premium recognised in Line slip reinsurance to pay losses from a catastrophe.
the income statement based on the estimated A facility operated by a Lloyds broker whereby They allow insurance risk to be sold to risk period falling in the financial year.
risks can be bound to a panel of insurers through institutional investors in the form of bonds, thus the agreement of a leading underwriter plus one ECF spreading the risk.
Other financial instruments or two following markets as specified on the slip Electronic claims file.
used to transfer catastrophe risk to capital at placement.
markets include catastrophe swaps and industry Efficient frontier Loss ratio loss warrants.
Represents the combinations of securities that See incurred loss ratio and ultimate loss ratio.
produce the maximum expected return for a given level of risk.
186 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements NFIP Reserves Sub-prime The National Flood Insurance Programme is a US Funds that have been set aside to meet Mortgages provided to home buyers with lower federal insurance programme providing property outstanding claims and IBNR.
Nearly all sub-prime loans in the insurance as protection against flood losses in US are packaged into mortgage backed securities Retention ratio exchange for floodplain management regulations for sale to investors.
The percentage of the previous years premium that reduce future flood damages.
Subscription market Non-life Insurance market, such as Lloyds, whereby Retrocession General insurance companies which sell underwriters subscribe to proportions of risks.
The reinsurance of liability accepted by way policies other than life insurance, annuities of reinsurance.
The amount by which the gross sum insured Return on capital ROCE Non-monetary assets & liabilities accepted by the insurance company exceeds After tax profit divided by opening shareholders Assets and liabilities that are accounting entries its own retention.
equity plus debt, adjusted for any capital raisings and are not expected to be exchanged for cash or returns.
Surplus lines such as unearned premium reserves.
A reinsurance where the surplus of the Return on equity ROE Outstanding claims reinsureds retention is ceded up to an agreed After tax profit divided by opening shareholders Losses which have been reported to the insurer amount.
Once accepted, both parties pay their equity, adjusted for any capital raisings or returns.
Risk-based capital Package Total shareholder returns TSR Risk-based capital is a method used to measure See commercial combined.
Returns combining share price performance the minimum amount of capital that an insurance and dividend payments.
Personal lines company needs to support its overall business Property casualty insurance products that are operations taking into account the size and type Treaty designed for and bought by individuals, including of risk taken by the insurer.
A reinsurance contract covering entire portfolios homeowners and automobile policies.
RMS Proportional reinsurance Risk Management Solutions.
Provider Ultimate loss ratio ULR A type of reinsurance where the ceding insurer of catastrophic modelling software.
Total forecast claims divided by total forecast cedes to its reinsurer a predetermined proportion premium expected to arise from a policy or Service company of the premium and liability of those policies class of business.
Losses include those paid, A company set up to operate a binding authority subject to the reinsurance agreement.
on behalf of the Syndicate to write business from Quantitative Impact Study QIS5 non-Lloyds brokers or policyholders directly.
Underwriting year A field test of the proposed quantitative aspects The year to which a policy is allocated and to Sidecars of Solvency II, including the solvency capital which all premiums and claims in respect of that Speciality reinsurance companies designed to requirement SCR under the standard formula, policy are attributed.
Allocation is determined provide additional capital to a specific reinsurance the minimum capital requirement MCR and the by the inception date of the policy.
Investors, such as hedge funds, invest regulatory solvency balance sheet.
in a reinsurance company, the sidecar, to reinsure Unearned premium Quota share specific risks for a specific reinsurance company.
Proportion of insurance premium covering A form of proportional reinsurance where the periods after the end of the financial year.
Solvency II reinsurer receives a percentage of every risk, as Held in the unearned premium reserve.
A proposed EU-wide regulatory regime which defined by the reinsurance contracts, written by intends to align solvency capital to an insurers US admitted market the ceding company.
The market provided by insurers who are licensed Rating agency to do business in US States.
Special purpose vehicle Credit agencies which determine insurers Corporate entity designed to isolate financial risk, VaR financial strength and company debt ratings.
often to allow other investors to participate in that A statistical measure which calculates the Realistic disaster scenario RDS risk.
possible loss over a year in normal market Modelling of the probable loss which may arise conditions.
As VaR estimates are based Specie from a defined catastrophic event.
on historical market data this should not The insurance of high value items including be viewed as an absolute gauge of the level Reinsurance deposits, bullion and fine art.
of risk to the investments.
A reinsurer Subordinated debt assumes part of the risk and part of the premium Year of account YOA Subordinated debt is debt that takes a lower originally taken by the insurer, known as the The year for Lloyds syndicates to which a policy priority than other debt.
If an issuer is liquidated primary company.
is allocated and to which all premiums and claims then subordinated debt holders will only be paid in respect of that policy are attributed.
Allocation after senior creditors have been fully paid.
is determined by the inception date of the policy.
