0QVGU VQ VJG CEEQWPVU EQPVKPWGF For the year ended 31 December 2012 39.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation Amlin plc the Company, domiciled in the United Kingdom, is the ultimate Parent Company for the Amlin Group the Group.
The separate financial statements of the Company are prepared as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The balance sheet of the Company has also been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union EU.
In accordance with the exemption permitted under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the income statement and statement of comprehensive income of the Company is not presented as part of these accounts.
The profit after taxation for the year of the Company was 1.2 million 2011: 156.9 million.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for financial assets and liabilities, share options and cash and cash equivalents, which are measured at their fair value.
The accounting policies that are used in preparation of these statements are consistent with the accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of the Group as set out in those financial statements.
The additional accounting policies that are specific to the separate financial statements of the Company are set out below.
Consistent with the presentation made within the consolidated financial statements, improvements have been made to the presentation of interest received and dividends received in the statement of cash flows to better reflect their nature.
There is no impact on the previously reported net change in cash and cash equivalents.
Investment in subsidiaries Other financial investments in Group undertakings are stated at cost and are reviewed for impairment when events, or changes in circumstances, indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
Dividend income Dividend income from investments in subsidiaries is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Employees and Directors All Amlin employees within the UK are employed by the Group service company, Amlin Corporate Services Limited.
Overseas employees are employed by the relevant foreign entities.
Therefore, the persons employed by the Company are nil 2011: nil.
The details of the Companys Directors remuneration are in note 11 to the Group accounts.
Audit fees 2012 2011 000 000 Audit Audit of the Groups and Companys annual financial statements 161.3 127.7 Total fees 161.3 127.7 42.
Cash and cash equivalents 2012 2011 m m Cash and cash in hand 10.2 5.0 The cash and cash in hand balance includes 10.0 million 2011: 5.0 million held in an escrow account in accordance with the funding requirements set out in the agreement with the Trustee of the Lloyds Superannuation Fund defined benefit pension scheme.
Details of the arrangement are in note 32.
