Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Summary of significant accounting These improvements have had no impact going concern basis in preparing the policies and critical accounting on the previously reported net change in cash Annual Report and accounts.
judgements and estimates and cash equivalents.
Adoption of new and revised standards Amlin plc the Company is a public limited Basis of consolidation C 5VCPFCTFU COGPFOGPVU VQ RWDNKUJGF company registered in England and Wales.
The financial statements consolidate the UVCPFCTFU CPF KPVGTRTGVCVKQPU GHHGEVKXG QP QT The address of the registered office is accounts of the Company and subsidiaries, CHVGT, CPWCT[ St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3A 8ND.
including the Groups underwriting through The Group has adopted the following amended The basis of preparation, basis of consolidation participation on Lloyds syndicates.
Subsidiaries IFRS effective as of 1 January 2012: and significant accounting policies adopted in are all entities including structured entities IFRS 7 amended, Financial instruments: the preparation of Amlin plc and subsidiaries over which the Group has control.
The Group Disclosures Transfers of financial assets the Group consolidated financial statements controls an entity when it is exposed, or has are set out below.
rights, to variable returns from its involvement The effect of this change is as follows: with the entity and has the ability to affect Basis of preparation IFRS 7 amended, Financial instruments: those returns through its power over the entity.
These consolidated financial statements are Disclosures Transfers of financial assets The financial statements of all subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with International The amendment introduces more extensive prepared for the same reporting year as the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as quantitative and qualitative disclosures about Parent Company.
Consolidation adjustments adopted for use in the European Union EU.
the transfer of financial assets to assist users are made to convert subsidiary accounts The consolidated financial statements comply in understanding the implications of transfers prepared under different accounting standards with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation and of financial instruments and the potential risks into IFRS so as to remove the effects of any Companies Act 2006. that may remain with the transferor.
There is different accounting policies that may exist.
no material impact on the Group or Companys The consolidated financial statements have Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that financial statements.
been prepared on the historical cost basis control is transferred to the Group and cease to except for cash and cash equivalents, financial be consolidated from the date that control is D 5VCPFCTFU COGPFOGPVU VQ RWDNKUJGF assets and liabilities, share options, and pension transferred out.
UVCPFCTFU CPF KPVGTRTGVCVKQPU GCTN[ CFQRVGF D[ assets, which are measured at their fair value.
VJG TQWR All inter company balances, profits and The Group has early adopted the following Except where otherwise stated, all figures transactions are eliminated.
standards and consequential amendments included in the consolidated financial Details of principal subsidiaries included within to other IFRSs for the financial year ended statements are presented in millions of British the consolidated financial statements can be 31 December 2012.
Comparative information Pounds Sterling sterling shown as m rounded found in note 4. has been restated accordingly.
The Group has to the nearest 100,000. not presented a balance sheet for the beginning Going concern The accounting policies adopted in preparing of the earliest comparative period as required The Groups business, risk and finance these financial statements are consistent with by IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements, management, performance and position, those followed in the preparation of the Groups as the impact is not material.
together with factors that are likely to affect annual financial statements for the year ended future development, are described in the IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements 31 December 2011, unless otherwise stated.
Performance Review of this Annual Report on IFRS 10 replaces the portion of IAS 27, In accordance with IFRS 4, Insurance page 45.
Capital management strategy, which Consolidated and separate financial contracts the Group has applied existing covers how regulatory and economic capital statements that addressed the accounting for accounting practices for insurance contracts, needs are measured and how capital is deployed, consolidated financial statements and SIC-12, modified as appropriate, to comply with the is described under Financial Management on Consolidation Special purpose entities.
IFRS framework and applicable standards.
The financial position of the Group, IFRS 10 revises the definition of control, including commentary on cash and investment the key factor in determining whether an entity The Group has early adopted the accounting levels, currency management, insurance liability is consolidated.
and disclosure requirements of IFRS 10, management, liquidity and borrowings, is also Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 11, The Group has assessed whether the covered in that section.
In addition note 2 Joint arrangements and IFRS 12, Disclosure consolidation conclusion under IFRS 10 describes capital management needs and of interests in other entities.
Further details are differs from IAS 27 SIC-12 as at 1 January policies and note 3 covers underwriting, market, provided below and in note 4.
If the consolidation conclusion differs as liquidity and credit risk which may affect the at this date, the comparative period has been Following the Groups announcement that Amlin financial position of the Group.
restated to be consistent with the accounting France will be integrated with the Amlin Europe The Group has considerable financial conclusion under IFRS 10.
Any difference division, the two businesses are now reported resources to meet its financial needs and, in between the carrying amounts under IFRS 10 together within the Amlin Europe column in the much of the Group, manages a mature portfolio and the carrying amounts under IAS 27 SIC-12 segmental information.
Comparative information of insurance risk through an experienced and is adjusted to equity.
Where the consolidation for the year ended 31 December 2011 has been stable team.
The Directors believe that the conclusion is the same under IFRS 10 and IAS restated accordingly.
Further details are Group is well positioned to manage its business 27 SIC-12, no adjustment to previous provided in note 5. risk successfully in the current uncertain accounting has been made.
Improvements have also been made to the economic environment.
The adoption of IFRS 10 resulted in a change presentation of interest received and dividends After making enquiries, the Directors have a in the control conclusion for Tramline Re Ltd, received in the consolidated statement of cash reasonable expectation that the Company and which is no longer consolidated by the Group.
flows, to reflect that such cash flows are the Group have adequate resources to continue The effect of adoption of IFRS 10 is discussed considered cash flows from operating activities in further detail in note 4. in operational existence for the foreseeable rather than cash flows from investing activities.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the 102 102 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements IFRS 11, Joint arrangements IFRS 9, Financial instruments: Classification IFRS 7 amended, Financial instruments: IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31, Interests in joint and measurement Disclosures Offsetting financial assets ventures and SIC-13, Jointly-controlled entities IFRS 9 as issued reflects the first phase of the and financial liabilities non-monetary contributions by venturers.
International Accounting Standards Boards The amendment to IFRS 7 is effective for The standard clarifies the definition of a joint IASB work on the replacement of IAS 39 annual reporting periods beginning on or arrangement and uses the principle of control Financial instruments: Recognition and after 1 January 2013.
The amendment in IFRS 10 to define joint control.
The standard measurement and applies to the classification introduces new disclosure requirements also removes the option to account for jointlyof financial instruments.
IFRS 9 as originally intended to allow investors to better compare controlled entities using the proportional issued had a mandatory effective date of the different offsetting of financial assets and consolidation method.
Subsequent amendments financial liabilities under IFRS and US GAAP.
to the standard, Mandatory effective date The amendment is likely to have an impact on The Group holds 50.0% of the voting rights and transition disclosures, have deferred the the disclosures made by the Group in respect in Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP, which 1 mandatory effective date to 1 January 2015. of its financial assets and financial liabilities.
was previously accounted for as a joint venture The IASB is currently considering limited using the equity method.
Upon adoption of the IAS 32 amended, Financial instruments: modifications to IFRS 9.
In other phases, the new standards, the Groups interest is now Presentation Offsetting financial assets IASB is addressing impairment of financial accounted for as an investment in associate and financial liabilities assets and hedge accounting.
The contractual terms The amendments to IAS 32 clarify the of the Groups interest in Leadenhall Capital The adoption of IFRS 9 will have an effect requirements for offsetting financial instruments Partners LLP have not changed and the impact on the classification and measurement of the and are applicable for accounting periods is one of disclosure only.
The Group is beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The currently undertaking a review to determine amendments are not expected to have a IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in the impact of the standard on adoption.
material impact on the financial statements other entities of the Group on adoption.
IFRS 12 includes all of the disclosures that However, the Group has determined that the were previously included in IAS 27 related to effect shall be quantified in conjunction with the IAS 12 amended, Deferred Taxes: Recovery consolidated financial statements, as well as other phases when issued.
Consideration will of underlying assets all of the disclosures that were previously also be given to the emerging requirements The amendments to IAS 12 relate to the included in IAS 31 and IAS 28, Investments and expected timetable of the IASBs insurance measurement of deferred tax on investment in associates.
A number of new disclosures contracts project in addressing the Groups properties.
The Group is required to apply the are also required, including the judgements classification and measurement approach.
amendments from 1 January 2013 which will made by management in determining whether have no impact on the financial statements of IFRS 9 amendments to incorporate financial it controls an entity and information about the Group or Company on adoption.
liabilities interests in unconsolidated structured entities.
The amendments to IFRS 9 issued in IFRS 13, Fair value measurement The disclosure requirements of the standard have October 2010 incorporate the classification IFRS 13 is effective for annual periods been applied in this set of financial statements.
and measurement of financial liabilities and beginning 1 January 2013 and is to be applied IAS 27, Separate financial statements are proposed to be effective for annual periods prospectively.
The standard establishes a single 1 and IAS 28, Investments in associates beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
The source of guidance under IFRS for fair value and joint ventures amendments only affect the measurement measurement and introduces new disclosures As a result of the issuance of IFRS 10, IFRS 11 of financial liabilities designated at fair value to help users to better assess the valuation and IFRS 12, consequential amendments were through profit or loss using the fair value techniques and inputs used to measure fair made to IAS 27 and IAS 28.
All other requirements in value.
The standard will require the Group to contains requirements only relating to separate IAS 39 in respect of liabilities are carried provide more disclosures about judgements financial statements, while the amendments to forward into IFRS 9. made and inputs used in fair value IAS 28 incorporate the accounting for joint measurements and sensitivity of those For FVO liabilities, the amount of change ventures.
The amendments to both standards measurements.
in the fair value of a liability that is attributable have been applied in conjunction with the to changes in own credit risk must be presented IAS 1 amended, Presentation of financial above standards.
in other comprehensive income OCI.
statements Presentation of items of other E 5VCPFCTFU COGPFOGPVU VQ RWDNKUJGF The remainder of the change in fair value comprehensive income UVCPFCTFU CPF KPVGTRTGVCVKQPU VJCV CTG PQV is presented in profit or loss, unless The amendment to IAS 1 is effective for annual [GV GHHGEVKXG CPF JCXG PQV DGGP GCTN[ CFQRVGF presentation of the fair value change in respect periods beginning 1 July 2012.
The amendment D[ VJG TQWR of the liabilitys credit risk in OCI would create will require companies to group together items Standards issued but not yet effective or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit within other comprehensive income that may up to the date of issuance of the Groups or loss.
The amendments are expected be reclassified to the profit or loss section financial statements are listed below.
to have no impact on the financial statements of the income statement.
The amendments The Group intends to adopt these standards of the Group.
reaffirm existing requirements that items when they become effective.
in other comprehensive income and profit or loss should be presented as either a single statement or two consecutive statements.
Upon adoption, the amendment will result in changes to the presentation of the Groups other comprehensive income.
Subject to EU endorsement Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 103 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 103 0QVGU VQ VJG CEEQWPVU EQPVKPWGF For the year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Summary of significant accounting Annual improvements to IFRSs 2009-2011 cycle PVCPIKDNG CUUGVU policies and critical accounting In May 2012, the IASB issued its annual Intangible assets are recognised on the judgements and estimates continued amendments to IFRSs and the related Bases acquisition of a subsidiary, on the purchase IAS 19 revised, Employee benefits for Conclusions and guidance.
The IASB uses of specific rights to renew a particular The amendment to IAS 19 is effective for annual the annual improvements process to make underwriting portfolio, on the acquisition periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 necessary, but non-urgent, amendments to of syndicate capacity and on internally and is to be applied retrospectively.
The IFRSs that will not be included as part of a developed computer software.
amendment principally affects the accounting for major project.
The amendments primarily The value of intangible assets arising from the and disclosure of defined benefit plans.
It remove inconsistencies and clarify wording.
acquisition of a subsidiary, syndicate capacity eliminates the option to defer the recognition The amendments are effective for annual or on the purchase of renewal rights is largely 1 of actuarial gains and losses under the corridor periods beginning 1 January 2013 and will based on the expected cash flows of the approach, applies a single rate to the net defined have no material impact on the Group or business acquired and contractual rights asset or liability to calculate the net interest Companys financial statements on adoption.
income or expense, removes the options for the Critical accounting judgements and key sources presentation of gains and losses and enhances The internally developed computer software of estimation uncertainty disclosure requirements in respect of defined principally relates to cost directly attributable The preparation of financial statements requires benefit plans and the risks arising on those plans.
to the development of a new underwriting the use of estimates and assumptions that The amendment will impact the calculation of the platform for Amlin Europe N. V. affect the reported amounts of assets and net interest income or expense, the presentation liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent The assumptions made by management of gains and losses and will require further assets and liabilities.
Although these estimates in performing impairment tests of intangible disclosures relating to the characteristics and are based on managements best knowledge assets are subject to estimation uncertainty.
risks of the Groups defined benefit pension of current events and actions, actual results The results of the impairment test may result plans.
The Group is currently undertaking an may ultimately differ from those estimates.
in the value of the intangible being impaired assessment of the impact on adoption.
At this in the current period.
Note 23 provides further stage the amendment is not expected to have a PUWTCPEG EQPVTCEV NKCDKNKVKGU details on these assumptions.
material impact on the Group.
The most significant estimate made in the financial statements relates to unpaid insurance The carrying value of the Groups intangible IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 amended, claim reserves and related loss adjustment assets excluding goodwill at 31 December Transition guidance expenses of the Group.
Subsequent to the release of the new suite of consolidation standards, the IASB published The estimated provision for the total level of QQFYKNN KORCKTOGPV amendments to clarify the transition guidance claims incurred changes as more information The Group determines whether goodwill is in IFRS 10 in June 2012.
The amendments also becomes known about the actual losses impaired at least on an annual basis.
This provide additional transition relief in IFRS 10, for which the initial provisions were set up.
requires an estimation of the recoverable IFRS 11 and IFRS 12, limiting the requirement The change in claims costs for prior period amount of the cash generating unit to which to provide adjusted comparative information insurance claims represents the claims goodwill is allocated.
Details of the key to only the preceding comparative period.
development of earlier reported years incurred assumptions used in the estimation of the The amendments to the standards are effective in the current accounting period.
The carrying recoverable amounts are contained in note 23. for annual periods beginning on or after value of the Groups net outstanding claims 1 The Group has allocated goodwill to cash 1 January 2013. reserves at 31 December 2012 is 2,604.9 generating units based on a number of factors, The Group has adopted the requirements of million 2011: 2,656.6 million.
In 2012, which include how the entitys operations are IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 in the current there has been a net positive development monitored.
period but is unable to apply the transition of 94.2 million 2011: 112.6 million for The carrying value at the reporting date of guidance amendments as they were released the Group, reflecting favourable experience in goodwill is 75.1 million 2011: 76.6 million.
in 2012 and have not yet been endorsed by the 2011 and prior reported years.
These amendments will not impact the provides further details of the method the 6CZCVKQP Group on adoption.
Group applies in estimating insurance Uncertainties exist with respect to the contract liabilities.
interpretation of complex tax regulations IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 amended, and the amount and timing of future taxable Investment entities KPCPEKCN CUUGVU CPF HKPCPEKCN NKCDKNKVKGU income.
The wide range of international The IASB issued amendments to IFRS 10, The Group uses pricing vendor sources in business relationships and the long-term IFRS 12 and IAS 27 in October 2012 to address determining the fair value of financial assets nature and complexity of existing contractual the accounting for investments controlled by and financial liabilities.
Depending on the agreements could necessitate future investment entities.
The amendments define methods and assumptions used for example, adjustments to tax income and expense already an investment entity and require an investment in the fair valuation of Level 2 and Level 3 recorded.
The Group establishes provisions, entity to measure its subsidiaries at fair value financial assets, the fair valuation of financial based on reasonable estimates, for possible through profit or loss.
The amendments do assets and financial liabilities can be subject consequences of audits by the tax authorities not permit the roll-up of fair value accounting to estimation uncertainty.
Details of these of the respective countries in which it operates.
in the consolidated financial statements of a methods and assumptions are described in The amount of such provisions is based on non-investment entity parent.
The carrying values of the Groups various factors, such as experience of previous are applicable for annual periods beginning financial assets and financial liabilities at 1 tax audits and differing interpretations of tax on or after 1 January 2014 and will not have 31 December 2012 are 4,205.0 million regulations by the taxable entity and the an impact on the financial statements of the 2011 restated: 3,983.9 million and responsible tax authority.
Such differences Group on adoption.
of interpretation may arise on a wide variety Note: of issues depending on the conditions prevailing 1.
Subject to EU endorsement 104 104 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements in the country of the respective Group and euro revenues are significant but the insurer inwards reinsurance are included companys domicile.
sterling revenue stream is currently material.
Group entities conduct business in a range of Deferred tax assets are recognised for all The significance of insurance risk is dependent economic environments, although these are unused tax losses to the extent that it is on both the probability of an insured event and primarily the United Kingdom, United States probable that taxable profits will be available the magnitude of its potential effect.
Any of America and Continental Europe.
against which the losses can be utilised.
contracts not considered to be insurance Significant management judgement is required Transactions denominated in foreign currencies contracts under IFRS 4 are classified as to determine the amount of deferred tax assets are translated using the exchange rates investment contracts.
that can be recognised, based upon the likely prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Based on the current assessment, all of the timing and the level of future taxable profits, Monetary assets and liabilities are translated products underwritten by the Groups insurance together with future tax planning strategies.
at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet entities are insurance contracts within the date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are The carrying value at the reporting date scope of IFRS 4.
Certain risk transfer contracts translated at the rate prevailing in the period in of the deferred tax asset is 17.5 million held by the Group, for example catastrophe which the asset or liability first arose or, where 2011: 26.9 million, and of the deferred tax linked instruments, do not meet the definition such items are revalued, at the latest valuation liability is 27.9 million 2011: 42.4 million.
of an insurance contract and are therefore date.
Exchange differences are recognised accounted for as financial instruments in within other operating expenses.
5VCHH KPEGPVKXG RNCPU accordance with IAS 39.
The Group recognises a liability and expense for The results and financial position of those Insurance contracts premium certain staff incentive plans based on a formula Group entities whose functional currency that takes into consideration the underwriting Gross written premium comprise premium is not sterling foreign operations are profit after certain adjustments.
Underwriting on insurance contracts incepting during the translated into sterling as follows: profit is estimated based on current expectation financial year together with adjustments to of premiums and claims and will change as Assets and liabilities for each balance premiums written in previous accounting more information is known or future events sheet presented are translated at the periods.
The estimated premium income in occur.
Where estimates change, related staff closing exchange rate at the date of the respect of facility contracts, for example binding incentive plan liabilities may also change.
balance sheet: authorities and lineslips, is deemed to be written in full at the inception of the contract.
The carrying value at the reporting date Income and expenses for each income of the liability for the staff incentive plans statement are translated at the exchange Premium is disclosed before the deduction of is 39.8 million 2011: 31.1 million.
rates at the date of each transaction, or a brokerage and taxes or duties levied on them.
practical approximation to these rates: and 4GVKTGOGPV DGPGHKV QDNKICVKQPU The proportion of gross written premium, gross The Group participates in the Lloyds On consolidation all resulting exchange of commission payable, attributable to periods Superannuation Fund defined benefit scheme differences are recognised in other after the balance sheet date is deferred as a and also operates defined benefit schemes comprehensive income.
The change in in the Netherlands, Belgium and Switzerland.
this provision is taken to the income statement Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising in order that revenue is recognised over the The amounts included in these financial on the acquisition of a foreign operation are period of the risk.
statements are sensitive to changes in the treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign assumptions used to derive the value of the operation and translated at the closing rate.
Premium is recognised as earned over the scheme assets and liabilities.
The earned element is Where contracts to sell currency have been calculated separately for each contract on a A loss of 17.5 million 2011: 18.3 million entered into prior to the year end, the 365ths basis where the premium is apportioned has been recognised in the statement of contracted rates have been used.
Differences over the period of risk.
For premium written comprehensive income and an expense arising on the translation of foreign currency under facilities the earned element is calculated of 6.4 million 2011: 4.2 million has been amounts on such items are included in other based on the estimated inception date and recognised in the income statement.
coverage period of the underlying contracts.
provides further details on the Groups Details of the principal exchange rates used retirement benefit obligations.
At 31 December Acquisition costs are included in note 33.
2012, the Group recognised a balance sheet Acquisition costs comprise brokerage incurred liability of 48.9 million 2011: 30.8 million Product classification on insurance contracts written during the in respect of its defined benefit plans.
Insurance contracts are defined as those financial year.
They are incurred on the same containing significant insurance risk if, and basis as the earned proportions of the premium &GVGTOKPKPI EQPVTQN QH GPVKVKGU only if, an insured event could cause an insurer they relate to.
Deferred acquisition costs are The significant judgements and assumptions to make significant additional payments amortised over the period in which the related made by the Group in reaching its control in any scenario, excluding scenarios that revenues are earned.
Deferred acquisition costs and consolidation conclusions for certain lack commercial substance, at the inception are reviewed at the end of each reporting investments held by the Group are outlined of the contract.
period and are written off where they are no in note 4b.
longer considered to be recoverable.
Contracts entered into by the Group with Significant accounting policies reinsurers under which the Group is Reinsurance premium ceded Foreign currency translation compensated for losses on contracts issued Reinsurance premium ceded comprise The Group and Company present their accounts by the Group and that meet the classification premium on reinsurance arrangements in sterling since it is subject to regulation in the requirements for insurance contracts are bought which incept during the financial year, United Kingdom and the net assets, liabilities classified as reinsurance contracts held.
together with adjustments to premiums ceded and income of the Group and Company are Insurance contracts underwritten by the Group in previous accounting periods.
The proportion currently weighted towards sterling.
US dollar under which the contract holder is another of reinsurance premium ceded attributable to Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 105 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 105 0QVGU VQ VJG CEEQWPVU EQPVKPWGF For the year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Summary of significant accounting Where there is objective evidence that a KK $WUKPGUU EQODKPCVKQPU CHVGT, CPWCT[ policies and critical accounting reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group The Group policy is to apply IFRS 3 revised judgements and estimates continued reduces the carrying amount of the reinsurance to all acquisitions taking place on or after periods after the balance sheet date is asset to its recoverable amount and recognises 1 January 2010. Business combinations are deferred as reinsurers share of unearned that impairment loss in the income statement.
accounted for using the acquisition method.
Reinsurance premium ceded Salvage and subrogation reimbursements The cost of acquisition is measured as the fair is earned over the policy contract period Some insurance contracts permit the Group value of assets given, liabilities incurred or in accordance with the terms of the to sell usually damaged property acquired assumed, and equity instruments issued by the reinsurance contract.
in settling a claim for example, salvage.
The Group at the date of exchange.
Under IFRS 3 Insurance contracts liabilities Group may also have the right to pursue third revised, with the exception of the costs of Claims paid are defined as those claims parties for payment of some or all costs for registering and issuing debt and securities transactions settled up to the balance sheet date example, subrogation.
that are recognised in accordance with IAS 32 including internal and external claims settlement and IAS 39 i. e. as a reduction in proceeds, Estimates of salvage recoveries are included expenses allocated to those transactions.
all other acquisition related costs are to be as an allowance in the measurement of the expensed as incurred.
Unpaid claims reserves are made for known or insurance liability for claims, and salvage anticipated liabilities under insurance contracts property is recognised in other insurance assets When the Group acquires a business, it which have not been settled up to the balance when the liability is settled.
The allowance is the assesses the financial assets and liabilities sheet date.
Included within the provision is amount that can reasonably be recovered from assumed for appropriate classification and an allowance for the future costs of settling the disposal of the property.
designation in accordance with the contractual those claims.
This is estimated based on past terms, economic circumstances and pertinent Subrogation reimbursements are also experience and current expectations of future conditions at the acquisition date.
Identifiable considered as an allowance in the cost levels.
assets acquired and liabilities and contingent measurement of the insurance liability for liabilities assumed, meeting the conditions Unpaid claims reserves are estimated on an claims and are recognised in other assets for recognition under IFRS 3, are recognised undiscounted basis.
Unpaid claims reserves when the liability is settled.
The allowance at their fair value at the acquisition date, acquired through a business combination are is the assessment of the amount that can be irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling measured at fair value, using an applicable recovered from the action against the liable interests.
The excess of the fair value of risk-free discount rate and having regard to third party.
consideration transferred over the fair value of the expected settlement dates of the claims.
Net investment income the Groups share of the identifiable net assets Provisions are subject to a detailed quarterly Dividends and any related tax credits are acquired is recorded as goodwill.
review where forecast future cash flows and recognised as income on the date that the existing amounts provided are reviewed and For each business combination, the Group related listed investments are marked exreassessed.
Any changes to the amounts held measures any non-controlling interests in dividend.
Other investment income, interest are adjusted through the income statement.
the acquiree at the non-controlling interests receivable, expenses and interest payable Provisions are established above an actuarial proportionate share of the acquirees are recognised on an accruals basis.
best estimate, reflecting a risk premium relating identifiable net assets.
to the uncertainty of the actual level of claims Segment reporting Investments in associates incurred.
Although it is possible that claims Operating segments are reported in a manner Investments in associates are accounted for could develop and exceed the reserves carried, consistent with the internal reporting provided using the equity method.
there is therefore a reasonable chance of to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief release of reserves from one year to the next.
operating decision maker, which is responsible Associates are all entities over which the for allocating resources and assessing the Group has significant influence but no control, The unpaid claims reserves also include, where performance of the operating segments, has generally accompanying a shareholding of necessary, a reserve for unexpired risks where, been identified as the Group Management between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The at the balance sheet date, the estimated costs Committee.
Groups share of its associates post-acquisition of future claims and related deferred acquisition profits and losses after tax is recognised in the costs are expected to exceed the unearned Business combinations income statement each period, and its share premium provision.
K $WUKPGUU EQODKPCVKQPU DGHQTG, CPWCT[ of the movement in associates net assets is The acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted Reinsurance recoveries reflected in the investments carrying values for using the purchase method.
The cost of The benefits to which the Group is entitled in the balance sheet.
acquisition is measured as the fair value of under its reinsurance contracts held are assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, Intangible assets recognised as reinsurance assets.
These assets and equity instruments issued by the Group K 5[PFKECVG ECRCEKV[ consist of short-term balances due from at the date of exchange, plus any costs directly Lloyds syndicate participations that have reinsurers, as well as longer-term receivables attributable to the business combination.
been purchased in the Lloyds capacity auctions that are dependent on the expected claims and Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and are capitalised at cost.
Syndicate capacity is benefits arising under the related reinsured contingent liabilities assumed, meeting the considered to have an indefinite life as it will insurance contracts.
Amounts recoverable from conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, provide benefits over an indefinite future period or due to reinsurers are measured consistently Business combinations, are recognised at their and is therefore not subject to an annual with the amounts associated with the reinsured fair value at the acquisition date, irrespective of amortisation charge.
The continuing value insurance contracts and in accordance with the the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the capacity is reviewed for impairment terms of each reinsurance contract.
of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of annually by reference to the expected future the Groups share of the identifiable net assets profit streams to be earned from the cash acquired is recorded as goodwill.
generating units to which the intangible asset 106 106 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements is allocated, with any impairment in value being The carrying values of property and equipment The uncertainty around valuation is discussed charged to the income statement.
are reviewed for impairment when events further in note 3. or changes in circumstance indicate that the KK QQFYKNN Derivative financial instruments carrying value may be impaired.
If any such Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to Derivative financial instruments primarily condition exists, the recoverable amount of the 1 January 1999 was written off to reserves.
include currency swaps, currency and interest asset is estimated in order to determine the Goodwill recognised between 1 January 1999 rate futures, currency options, catastrophe extent of impairment and the difference is and the date of transition to IFRS 1 January linked instruments and other financial charged to the income statement.
2004 was capitalised and amortised on a instruments that derive their value mainly from straight line basis over its estimated useful life.
Gains and losses on disposal of property and underlying interest rates, foreign exchange Following the transition to IFRS this goodwill equipment are determined by reference to their rates or catastrophe risk.
Derivatives are initially is stated at net book value at 1 January 2004. carrying amount and are recorded in profit or recognised at fair value on the date on which Goodwill that was recognised subsequent to loss.
Repairs and renewals are charged to the a derivative contract is entered into.
They are 1 January 2004 is capitalised.
Goodwill is tested income statement when the expenditure is subsequently measured at fair value, with their for impairment annually, or when events or incurred.
The freehold land is not depreciated.
fair values obtained from quoted market prices changes in circumstance indicate that it might or, where these are not available, by using Financial assets be impaired, by comparing the net present valuation techniques such as discounted cash The Group classifies its financial assets value of the future earnings stream of the cash flow models or option pricing models.
Changes at fair value through profit and loss FV or generating unit to which goodwill has been in the fair value of derivative instruments are available-for-sale.
The classification depends allocated, against the carrying value of the recognised immediately in the income on the purpose for which the financial assets goodwill and the carrying value of the related statement unless the derivative is designated were acquired.
As defined by IAS 39 the classification of its financial assets at Financial instruments: Recognition and KKK 1VJGT KPVCPIKDNG CUUGVU initial recognition.
measurement, the Group designates certain Other intangible assets comprise costs directly Other than investments in certain unlisted foreign currency derivatives as hedges of net attributable to securing the intangible rights to insurance intermediaries see below, the Group investments in foreign operations.
The Group broker and customer relationships and costs classifies its financial investments at FV.
This documents at the inception of each hedging directly attributable to internally developed classification requires all fair value changes transaction the relationship between hedging software.
Costs are recognised as intangible to be recognised immediately within the instruments and hedged items, as well as its assets where they can be identified separately investment return line in the income statement.
risk management objectives and strategy for and measured reliably and it is probable that Within the FV category, fixed income securities, undertaking various hedging transactions.
The they will be recovered by directly related future Group also documents its assessment, both at equity securities, property funds and certain profits.
Other intangible assets are reviewed for derivatives are classified as trading as the hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of impairment losses at each reporting date or whether the derivatives that are used in hedging Group buys with the intention to resell.
All other whenever events or changes in circumstances assets at FV are classified as other than transactions are highly effective in offsetting indicate that the carrying amount may not be changes in fair values of hedged items.
trading within the FV category as they are recoverable.
Other intangible assets are carried managed and their performance is evaluated at cost less accumulated amortisation and Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument on a FV basis.
Amortisation is calculated related to the effective portion is recognised on a straight line basis based on the estimated The Group has investments in certain unlisted in other comprehensive income.
The fair values useful economic life of the assets, which is insurance intermediaries which are treated of derivative instruments used for hedging estimated to be between five and fifteen years, as available-for-sale and are measured at fair purposes are disclosed in note 18.
Gains and and is charged to other operating expenses in value, unless their fair value cannot be reliably losses accumulated in equity are included the income statement.
measured, in which case they are valued in the income statement when the foreign at cost less impairment.
Changes in fair operation is partially disposed of or sold.
Property and equipment value of investments are included in other Property and equipment are stated at Embedded derivatives with risks and comprehensive income in the period in which historical cost less accumulated depreciation characteristics which are not closely related they arise.
They are tested for impairment and provision for impairment where appropriate.
to the host contract, and where the combined annually, or when events or changes in Cost includes the original purchase price of the instrument is not measured at fair value with circumstances indicate that impairment might asset and the costs attributable to bringing the changes in fair value recognised in profit or have occurred.
When securities classified asset to its working condition for its intended loss, are separated from the host contract and as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the use.
Depreciation is calculated on the straight measured at fair value.
accumulated fair value adjustments recognised line basis to write down the cost of such assets in equity are included in the income statement Loans and receivables to their residual values over their estimated as gains and losses from investment securities.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised useful lives as follows: at fair value and subsequently measured Purchases and sales of investments are Leasehold land Over period at amortised cost using an effective interest recognised on the trade date, which is the and buildings of lease rate.
Appropriate allowances for estimated date the Group commits to purchase or sell irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the Freehold buildings 5% per annum the assets.
These are initially recognised at fair income statement when there is evidence that Motor vehicles 33% per annum value, and are subsequently re-measured at fair the asset is impaired.
These are reversed when Computer equipment 20% to 33% value based on quoted bid prices.
Transaction the triggering event that caused the impairment per annum costs are recognised directly in the income is reversed.
Changes in the fair Furniture, fixtures and leasehold improvements 20% per annum value of investments are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 107 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 107 0QVGU VQ VJG CEEQWPVU EQPVKPWGF For the year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Summary of significant accounting Leases Pension contributions to defined contribution policies and critical accounting Leases are classified as finance leases plans are charged to the income statement judgements and estimates continued whenever the terms of the lease transfer when due.
Borrowings substantially all the risks and rewards to the KK 'SWKV[ EQORGPUCVKQP RNCPU GSWKV[ UGVVNGF Borrowings are stated initially at the Group.
The Group holds no finance leases.
All The Company operates a number of executive consideration received net of transaction costs other leases are classified as operating leases.
Borrowings are subsequently stated Rentals payable under operating leases after 7 November 2002 are accounted for at amortised cost using the effective interest are charged to the income statement in the using the fair value method where the cost method.
Any difference between amortised period in which they become payable in for providing equity compensation is based cost and the redemption value is recognised accordance with the terms of the lease, which on the fair value of the share option or award in the income statement over the period of the is representative of the time pattern of the at the date of the grant.
The fair value is borrowings.
Transaction costs on borrowings Groups benefit.
calculated using an option pricing model are charged through the income statement over and the corresponding expense is recognised the period of the borrowings.
Employee benefits in the income statement over the vesting K 2GPUKQP QDNKICVKQPU Finance costs period.
The accrual for this charge is recognised The Group participates in a number of pension Finance costs mainly comprise interest payable in equity shareholders funds.
When the options schemes, including several defined benefit on subordinated loans and commissions are exercised, the proceeds received net of schemes, defined contribution schemes and charged for the utilisation of letters of credit.
any transaction costs are credited to share personal pension schemes.
These costs are charged to the income capital for the par value and the surplus to statement as finance costs, as incurred.
The Lloyds Superannuation Fund scheme is a share premium.
Fees paid for the arrangement of debt and multi-employer defined benefit scheme.
Amlin KKK 1VJGT DGPGHKVU letter of credit facilities are charged to finance Europe N. V. participates in two defined benefit Other employee incentive schemes and costs over the life of the facility.
Amlin Re Europes pension scheme long-term service awards, including the is classified as a defined benefit scheme in Cash and cash equivalents Amlin Capital Builder Plan and sabbatical leave, accordance with IAS 19, Employee benefits.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the are recognised when they accrue to employees.
balance sheet at fair value.
For the purposes The defined benefit obligation and associated A provision is made for the estimated liability of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash pension costs are calculated annually by for long-service leave as a result of services equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits independent actuaries using the projected unit rendered by employees up to the balance held on call with banks and other short-term, credit method.
This method sees each period sheet date.
highly liquid investments which are believed of service as giving rise to an additional unit of Other operating income to be subject to insignificant risk of change benefit entitlement and measures each unit Fee income received on insurance-related in fair value.
separately to build up the final liability.
The cost services is recognised as the benefits of the of providing these benefits is charged to the Treasury shares services are provided.
income statement to spread the pension cost Treasury shares are deducted from equity.
over the service lives of employees.
Actuarial Taxation No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, gains and losses arising from the recognition Income tax expense represents the sum of the sale, issue or cancellation of the treasury and funding of the Groups pension obligations tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Any consideration paid or received are recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised directly in equity.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable during the period in which they arise.
Taxable profit differs from Earnings per share The liability recognised in the balance sheet net profit as reported in the income statement Earnings per share are based on the profit in respect of defined benefit pension plans because it excludes items of income or expense attributable to shareholders and the weighted is the present value of the fair value of plan that are taxable or deductible in other years average number of shares in issue during the assets less the defined benefit obligation at the or that are never taxable or deductible.
Shares held by the Employee Share balance sheet date, together with adjustments Groups and Companys liability for current tax Ownership Trust ESOT and treasury shares for unrecognised past service costs and for is calculated using tax rates that have been are excluded from the weighted average restrictions on the recognition of a defined enacted or substantively enacted by the balance number of shares.
benefit asset due to an asset ceiling.
Basic earnings per share are calculated by present value of the defined benefit obligation Deferred tax is recognised on differences dividing profit after tax by the weighted average is determined by discounting the estimated between the carrying amounts of assets and number of issued shares during the year.
future cash outflows using discount rates set liabilities in the financial statements and the on the basis of the yield of high quality debt Diluted earnings per share are calculated by corresponding tax bases used in the instruments AA rated or equivalent issued by dividing profit after tax by the adjusted average computation of taxable profit, and is accounted blue chip companies, with maturities consistent number of shares in issue.
The adjusted for using the balance sheet liability method.
with those of the defined benefit obligations.
average number of shares assumes conversion Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised In respect of the defined benefit scheme in the of dilutive potential ordinary shares, being for all taxable temporary differences and Netherlands for Amlin Europe N. V. the fair shares from the Executive Share Option deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent value of the plan assets reflects the benefits Scheme ESOT, Long Term Incentive Plan that it is probable that taxable profits will be that accrue to Amlin Europe N. V. under the LTIP, Performance Share Plan PSP, Share available against which deductible temporary insurance policy taken out to meet its Incentive Plan SIP and the Sharesave scheme.
This is also the case for Amlin Re liabilities are not recognised if the temporary Europes defined benefit scheme.
difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities 108 108
