274 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Glossary Personal pensions Product definitions A pension plan tailored to the individual policyholder, which Annuities includes the options to stop, start or change their payments.
A type of policy that pays out regular amounts of benefit, either immediately and for the remainder of a persons Protection lifetime, or deferred to commence from a future date.
An insurance contract that protects the policyholder or his her Immediate annuities may be purchased for an individual and dependants against financial loss on death or ill-health.
his or her dependants or on a bulk purchase basis for groups of people.
Deferred annuities are accumulation contracts, Regular premium which may be used to provide benefits in retirement, and may A series of payments are made by the policyholder, typically be guaranteed, unit-linked or index-linked.
monthly or annually, for part of or all of the duration of the contract.
Bonds and savings These are accumulation products with single or regular SICAVs premiums and unit-linked or guaranteed investment returns.
This is an open-ended investment fund, structured as a legally independent joint stock company, whose units are issued in Critical illness cover the form of shares.
Pays out a lump sum if the insured person is diagnosed with a serious illness that meets the plan definition.
Single premium A single lump sum is paid by the policyholder at Deferred annuities commencement of the contract.
An annuity or pension due to be paid from a future date or when the policyholder reaches a specified age.
A deferred Stakeholder pensions annuity may be funded by a policyholder by payment of a Low cost and flexible pension plans available in the UK, series of regular contributions or by a capital sum.
Group pensions Term assurance A pension plan that covers a group of people, which is A simple form of life insurance, offering cover over a fixed typically purchased by a company and offered to their number of years during which a lump sum will be paid out if employees.
Guaranteed annuities Unit trusts A policy that pays out a fixed regular amount of benefit for a A form of open ended collective investment constituted under defined period.
a trust deed, in which investors can buy and sell units.
Income drawdown Unit-linked annuities The policyholder can transfer money from any pension fund to A type of deferred annuity which is invested in units of an income drawdown plan from which they receive an investment funds, whose value depends directly on the income.
The remainder of the pension fund continues to be market value of assets in those funds.
invested, giving it the potential for growth.
Whole life Investment sales A protection policy that remains in force for the insureds Comprise retail sales of mutual fund-type products such as whole life.
Traditional whole life contracts have fixed premium unit trusts, individual savings accounts ISAs and open ended payments that typically cannot be missed without lapsing investment companies OEICs.
Flexible whole life contracts allow the policyholder to vary the premium and or amount of life cover, within ISAs certain limits.
Individual savings accounts Tax-efficient plans for investing in stocks and shares, cash deposits or life insurance investment With-profits funds, subject to certain limits.
A type of long-term savings and insurance product sold in the UK under with profits policies premiums are paid into a Mortgage endowment separate fund.
Policyholders receive a return on their policies An insurance contract combining savings and protection through bonuses, which smooth the investment return elements which is designed to repay the principal of a loan or from the assets which premiums are invested in.
declared on an annual and terminal basis.
Shareholders have a participating interest in the with-profit funds and any declared Mortgage life insurance bonuses.
Generally, policyholder and shareholder participation A protection contract designed to pay off the outstanding in with-profit funds in the UK is split 90:10. amount of a mortgage or loan in the event of death of the insured.
OEIC Open ended investment company An collective investment fund structured as a limited company in which investors can buy and sell shares.
Pensions A means of providing income in retirement for an individual and possibly his her dependants.
Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 275 Aviva plc Glossary continued Annual report and accounts 2012 General insurance General terms Also known as non-life or property and casualty insurance.
Available for sale AFS Property insurance covers loss or damage through fire, theft, Securities that have been acquired neither for short-term sale flood, storms and other specified risks.
Casualty insurance nor to be held to maturity.
These are shown at fair value on primarily covers losses arising from accidents that cause injury the statement of financial position and changes in value to other people or damage the property of others.
are taken straight to equity instead of the income statement.
Gross written premiums Association of British Insurers ABI The total earnings or revenue generated by sales of insurance A major trade association for UK insurance companies, products, before any reinsurance is taken into account.
Not all established in July 1985. premiums written will necessarily be treated as income in the current financial year, because some of them could relate to Acquired value of in force AVIF insurance cover for a subsequent period.
The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long-term insurance and investment contracts, acquired either directly or Independent Financial Advisers IFAs through the purchase of a subsidiary.
A person or organisation authorised to give advice on financial matters and to sell the products of all financial service Bancassurance providers.
An arrangement whereby banks and building societies sell insurance and investment products to their customers on IFRS behalf of other financial providers.
These are accounting regulations designed to ensure comparable UK Corporate Governance Code statement of financial position preparation and disclosure, The code sets out guidance in the form of principles and and are the standards that all publicly listed companies in the provisions on how companies should be directed and European Union are required to use.
controlled to follow good governance practice.
Operating profit Deferred acquisition costs DAC From continuing operations based on expected investment The costs directly attributable to the acquisition of new returns, stated before tax attributable to shareholders profits business for insurance and investment contracts may be and before non-operating items inlcuding, impairment of deferred to the extent that they are expected to be goodwill, exceptional and other items.
This is also referred to recoverable out of future margins in revenue on as adjusted operating profit.
Inherited estate Fair value In the UK, the assets of the long-term with-profit funds less The amount for which an asset can be exchanged, or a liability the realistic reserves for non-profit policies written within the settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms with-profit funds, less asset shares aggregated across the length transaction.
with-profit policies and any additional amounts expected at FSA the valuation date to be paid to in-force policyholders in the The UKs Financial Services Authority Main regulatory body future in respect of smoothing costs and guarantees.
appointed by the government to oversee financial services Long-term and savings business industry in the UK.
Since December 2001 it has been the Collective term for life insurance, pensions, savings, single statutory regulator responsible for savings, insurance investments and related business.
From 1 April 2013, the FSA will split into two new regulatory bodies: the Prudential Regulation Net written premiums Authority PRA, which will be a subsidiary of the Bank of Total gross written premiums for the given period, minus England, and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
premiums paid over or ceded to reinsurers.
Funds under management Net asset value per ordinary share Represents all assets actively managed or administered by or Net asset value divided by the number of ordinary shares in on behalf of the Group including those funds managed by issue.
Net asset value is based on equity shareholders funds.
Present value of new business PVNBP Funds under management by Aviva Present value of new regular premiums plus 100% of single Represents all assets actively managed or administered by the premiums, calculated using assumptions consistent with those fund management operations of the Group.
used to determine the value of new business under Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV principles published by the CFO Forum.
Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control The Turnbull Guidance sets out best practice on internal controls for UK listed companies, and provides additional guidance in applying certain sections of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Please note that each Aviva ADR represents two 2 ordinary shares.
Percentages do not necessarily add up due to rounding.
2013 financial calendar Annual General Meeting 9 May 2013 Announcement of first quarter Interim Management Statement 16 May 2013 Announcement of unaudited half-year results 8 August 2013 Announcement of third quarter Interim Management Statement 7 November 2013 2012 final dividend dates ordinary shares Ex-dividend date 20 March 2013 Record date 22 March 2013 Dividend payment date 17 May 2013 Please note that the ADR local payment date will be approximately five business days after the proposed dividend date for ordinary shares.
Dividends Annual General Meeting AGM Dividends on ordinary shares are normally paid in May and The 2013 AGM will be held at The Barbican Centre, Silk November - please see the table above for the key dates in Street, London EC2Y 8DS on Thursday, 9 May 2013 at respect of the 2012 final dividend.
Dividends on preference shares are normally paid in March, Details of each resolution to be considered at the June, September and December - please visit meeting are provided in the Notice of AGM, which is www.
com preferenceshares for the latest dividend available on the Companys website at payment dates.
Holders of ordinary and preference shares will receive any Shareholders can vote electronically at dividends payable in sterling and holders of ADRs will receive www.
co. uk eproxy, in person by any dividends payable in US dollars.
attending the meeting, or by completing and returning the relevant voting card s by post.
Direct credit of dividend payments The voting results for the 2013 AGM will be accessible If you would like to have your cash dividends paid directly into on the Companys website at www.
com agm your bank or building society account, please visit shortly after the meeting.
com dividendmandate for more information or If you are unable to attend the AGM but would like to contact Computershare using the contact details overleaf.
ask the directors a question in connection with the business of the meeting, you can do so by sending a Overseas global dividend service question to the group company secretary by email to The Global Payments Service provided by Computershare aviva.
We will endeavour to enables shareholders living overseas to elect to receive their provide you with a response as soon as possible.
dividends in a choice of over 65 international currencies.
For further details and fees for this service please visit AGM voting instructions www.
co. uk faq and select the Dividends and Completed proxy instructions must be submitted to the Payments tab, followed by Global Payment Service.
Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare, as soon as possible, but in any event to arrive by no later than: 11am on Tuesday, 7 May 2013 for ordinary shareholders: and 11am on Friday, 3 May 2013 for members of the Aviva Share Account and participants in the Aviva All Employee Share Ownership Plan.
277 Aviva plc Shareholder services continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Contact details Manage your holdings online You can view and manage your shareholding online by Ordinary and preference shares Computershare visiting www.
To log in you will require For any queries regarding your shareholding, or to advise of changes your 11 digit Shareholder Reference Number SRN, which to your personal details, please contact our Registrar, you will find on your proxy or voting card, latest dividend Computershare: stationery, or any share certificate issued since 4 July 2011.
Shareholders can also elect to receive electronic By telephone: 0871 495 0105 communications by registering their email address online, or Lines are open from 8.30am to 5pm UK time, Monday to by contacting Computershare directly.
Making this election Friday excluding public holidays.
will save on printing and distribution costs and has Please call 44 117 378 8361 if calling from outside the UK.
co. uk Useful links for shareholders In writing: Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ Online Shareholder Services Centre www.
com shareholderservices American Depositary Receipts ADRs Citibank For any queries regarding Aviva ADRs, please contact Citibank Dividend information for ordinary shares Shareholder Services Citibank : www.
com dividends By telephone: 1 877 248 4237 1 877-CITI-ADR, or Annual General Meeting information and Electronic Voting 1 781 575 4555 if you are calling from outside the US.
com agm Lines are open from 8.30am to 6.00pm, Monday to Friday www.
co. uk eproxy US Eastern Standard Time.
Aviva share price By email: citibank@shareholders-online.
com shareprice In writing: Citibank Shareholder Services, ADR holders www.
com adr PO Box 43077, Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3077 USA Aviva preference shareholders Please visit www.
com dr for further information about Avivas www.
Aviva preference share price Group Company Secretary www.
com Shareholders may contact the group company secretary as follows: Aviva Annual Review By email: aviva.
com In response to shareholder feedback, we have reintroduced the Annual Review as an alternative to the full Annual In writing: Kirstine Cooper, Group Company Secretary Report and Accounts.
The Annual Review provides a St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ summary of Avivas businesses and performance in an easier to read format, which many of our shareholders found By telephone: 44 0 20 7283 2000 useful in the past.
You can find further information and view the Annual Review at www.
If you prefer to receive hard copy documents and would like to Form 20-F elect to receive a copy of the Annual Review instead of Aviva is a foreign private issuer in the United States of America and is the full Annual Report and Accounts, please contact subject to certain reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Computershare.
Aviva files its Form 20-F with the SEC, copies of which can be found at www.
Be on your guard beware of fraudsters!
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence offering to buy shares at a discount or offering free financial advice or company reports.
Boiler rooms use increasingly sophisticated means to approach investors and often leave their victims out of pocket.
The Financial Services Authority FSA has found most share fraud victims are experienced investors who lose an average of 20,000.
The FSA has provided tips on how to protect your savings which you can find at www.
Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Keep in mind that genuine companies are very unlikely to call you with an offer to buy or sell shares.
If the caller persists, hang up.
For more information please visit the warning to shareholders page at: www.
Aviva plc St Helens, 1 Undershaft London EC3P 3DQ 44 0 20 7283 2000 www.
com Registered in England Number 2468686
