148 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Accounting policies Aviva plc the Company, a public limited company incorporated periods beginning on or after the following dates and have not and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK, together with its been adopted by the Group: subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Aviva transacts life Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012 assurance and long-term savings business, fund management and Amendment to IAS 1, Financial Statement Presentation most classes of general insurance and health business through its The amendment requires entities to group items presented subsidiaries, associates and branches in the UK, Ireland, in other comprehensive income according to whether they continental Europe, United States US, Canada, Asia and other will subsequently be reclassified to profit and loss.
The countries throughout the world.
adoption of the amendment will change the presentation of Following the announcement in April 2012 relating to the the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the restructuring of the Group, the Groups operating segments were financial statements.
The amendment has been endorsed by changed to align them with the new organisational reporting the EU.
The Group has determined its operating segments along market reporting lines, reflecting the management Effective for annual periods beginning on or after structure whereby a member of the Executive Management team 1 January 2013 is accountable to the group chief executive for the operating i Amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benefits segment for which he is responsible.
Further details of the The amendment revises requirements for pensions and other reportable segments are given in note 4. post-retirement benefits, termination benefits and other The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation employee benefits.
The key changes include the revision of of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies the calculation of the finance cost, enhanced disclosures have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless surrounding the characteristics and risk profile of defined otherwise stated.
benefit plans, and a requirement to include all actuarial gains and losses immediately in other comprehensive income A Basis of presentation which is already in line with the Groups current policy.
The The consolidated financial statements and those of the Company amended standard will impact finance costs as the concept have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance of expected return is removed and replaced with interest on with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued scheme assets, which is calculated using the same interest by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as rate that is applied for the purposes of discounting the endorsed by the European Union EU, and those parts of the defined benefit obligation.
The difference between interest Companies Act 2006 applicable to those reporting under IFRS.
In income on scheme assets and the actual return is included in addition to fulfilling their legal obligation to comply with IFRS as other comprehensive income.
If this amendment had been adopted by the EU, the Group and Company have also complied adopted for the year ended 31 December 2012, the net with IFRS as issued by the IASB and applicable at 31 December impact would have been an increase in profit before tax and 2012.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared a corresponding decrease in other comprehensive income of under the historical cost convention, as modified by the 145 million.
This is the difference between the current revaluation of land and buildings, available-for-sale financial expected return on scheme assets and the interest income assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including on scheme assets calculated using the discount rate.
The derivative instruments at fair value through profit and loss.
amendment has been endorsed by the EU.
In accordance with IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts, the Group has applied existing accounting practices for insurance and ii Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments Disclosures participating investment contracts, modified as appropriate The amendment includes enhanced disclosures to enable to comply with the IFRS framework and applicable standards.
users of the financial statements to evaluate the effect or Further details are given in accounting policy F. potential effect of netting arrangements in the statement Items included in the financial statements of each of the of financial position.
The amendments will not have a Groups entities are measured in the currency of the primary significant impact for the Group.
The amendment has been economic environment in which that entity operates the endorsed by the EU.
The consolidated financial statements are stated in sterling, which is the Companys functional and iii IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements presentation currency.
Unless otherwise noted, the amounts IFRS 10 replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and shown in these financial statements are in millions of pounds Separate Financial Statements that addresses the accounting sterling m. The separate financial statements of the Company for consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 10 establishes a are on pages 267 to 272. single control model that applies to all entities including See note 2 for presentation changes to the consolidated special purpose entities, based on the concept of power, financial statements.
exposure or rights to variable returns and their linkage.
This will replace the current approach which emphasises the New standards, interpretations and amendments to published power to govern the financial and operating policies, and standards that have been adopted by the Group exposure to risks and rewards, depending on the nature of The Group has adopted the following new amendments to the entity.
IFRS 10 defines and prescribes how to apply the standards which became effective for financial years beginning principle of control in determining which entities are on or after 1 January 2012.
Neither of these amendments has required to be consolidated in the consolidated financial a material impact on these financial statements.
The standard has been endorsed by the EU.
i Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments Disclosures, Based on our assessment to date, the Group does not relating to the transfer of financial assets.
expect the overall impact of the adoption of IFRS 10 on the ii Amendment to IAS 12, Income Taxes, relating to deferred tax.
Groups equity and profit before tax for the year to be Standards, interpretations and amendments to published material.
The implementation of IFRS 10 is expected to standards that are not yet effective and have not been mainly result in the Group consolidating some investment adopted early by the Group vehicles that were previously not consolidated.
The following new standards, amendments to existing standards and interpretations have been issued, are effective for accounting Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 149 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2012 iv IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements particular subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss in IFRS 11 defines and establishes accounting principles for accordance with IFRS 9 'Financial Instruments' or IAS 39 joint arrangements.
It distinguishes between two types of 'Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement'.
joint arrangements joint ventures and joint operations There are no implications for the Groups consolidated based on how rights and obligations are shared by parties financial statements.
The amendments have yet to be to the arrangements.
The full impact of the changes has yet endorsed by the EU.
to be fully assessed but is not expected to have a significant Effective for annual periods beginning on or after impact on the Groups equity and profit before tax for the 1 January 2015 year.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39, Financial Instruments v IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Recognition and Measurement.
Under IFRS 9, all recognised IFRS 12 includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of financial assets that are currently within the scope of IAS 39 interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, will be measured at either amortised cost or fair value.
The associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance basis of classification will depend on the business model and sheet vehicles.
The standard is expected to have a significant the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial impact on the level of disclosure in respect of these interests.
All equity instruments will be measured at fair value.
A debt instrument is measured at amortised cost only if it is held to collect the contractual cash flows and the cash vi IAS 27, Separate Financial Statements 2011 flows represent principal and interest, otherwise it is IAS 27 has been revised to remove the requirements for measured at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL.
For consolidated financial statements which are superseded financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL, the change in the by the issue of IFRS 10.
The standard has been endorsed fair value attributable to changes in the liabilitys credit risk is by the EU.
recognised in other comprehensive income unless it gives rise to an accounting mismatch in profit or loss.
vii IAS 28, Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 We have not yet completed our assessment of the IAS 28 has been revised to include joint ventures as well as impact of the adoption of IFRS 9 on the Group which, to a associates.
Joint ventures are required to be equity large extent, will need to take into account the finalisation accounted following the issue of IFRS 11.
There are no of the standard and the interaction of the requirements implications for the Group financial statements.
The of IFRS 9 with the IASBs ongoing insurance contracts standard has been endorsed by the EU.
The standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
viii IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 replaces the guidance on fair value measurement in B Operating profit existing IFRSs with a single standard.
The standard does not include requirements regarding which items should be The long-term nature of much of the Groups operations means measured at fair value but provides guidance on how to that, for managements decision-making and internal determine fair value.
The standard also includes enhanced performance management, short-term realised and unrealised disclosures about fair value measurement.
The adoption investment gains and losses are treated as non-operating items.
of IFRS 13 is not expected to have a significant impact on The Group focuses instead on an operating profit measure the financial statements.
The standard has been endorsed also referred to as adjusted operating profit that incorporates an by the EU expected return on investments supporting its long-term and non-.
Operating profit for long-term business is ix Improvements to IFRSs 2009-2011 based on expected investment returns on financial investments Improvements to IFRSs 2009-2011 details amendments backing shareholder and policyholder funds over the reporting to five IFRSs, including IAS 1, Presentation of Financial period, with allowance for the corresponding expected Statements, IAS 32, Financial Instruments Presentation, movements in liabilities.
Variances between actual and expected and IAS 34, Interim Financial Reporting.
The amendments investment returns, and the impact of changes in economic clarify existing guidance and do not give rise to a change in assumptions on liabilities, are disclosed separately outside existing accounting practice.
There are no implications for operating profit.
For non-long-term business, the total investment the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The income, including realised and unrealised gains, is analysed amendments have yet to be endorsed by the EU.
between that calculated using a longer-term return and shortterm fluctuations from that level.
Further details of this analysis Effective for annual periods beginning on or after and the assumptions used are given in notes 8 and 9.
Operating 1 January 2014 profit also excludes impairment of goodwill, associates and joint i Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments ventures: amortisation and impairment of other intangibles: the Presentation profit or loss on disposal and remeasurement of subsidiaries, joint The amendment to IAS 32 clarifies the requirements for ventures and associates: integration and restructuring costs: and offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the exceptional items.
Exceptional items are those items that, in the statement of financial position.
The impact of the adoption Directors view, are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of of the amendment has yet to be fully assessed but is not their nature or incidence to enable a full understanding of the expected to have significant implications for the Group Groups financial performance.
Details of these items are provided financial statements.
The amendment has been endorsed in the relevant notes.
C Critical accounting policies and the use ii Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 2011 of estimates The amendments provide an exemption from consolidation The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to of subsidiaries under IFRS 10 'Consolidated Financial select accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions Statements' for entities which meet the definition of an that affect items reported in the consolidated income statement, 'investment entity', such as certain investment funds.
Instead, such entities would measure their investment in 150 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2012 consolidated statement of financial position, other primary Merger accounting principles for these combinations gave rise statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements.
to a merger reserve in the consolidated statement of financial position, being the difference between the nominal value of new Critical accounting policies and the use of estimates shares issued by the Parent Company for the acquisition of the These major areas of judgement on policy application are shares of the subsidiary and the subsidiarys own share capital summarised below: and share premium account.
These transactions have not been restated, as permitted by the IFRS 1 transitional arrangements.
Critical accounting judgement estimate Accounting The merger reserve is also used where more than 90% of the Item or assumption policy shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes Consolidation Assessment of whether the D the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting Group controls the underlying merger relief under the Companies Act 1985 and, from 1 October entities Insurance and participating Assessment of the significance F 2009, the Companies Act 2006. investment contract of insurance risk passed liabilities Investment vehicles Financial investments Classification of investments S In several countries, the Group has invested in a number of specialised investment vehicles such as Open-ended Investment All estimates are based on managements knowledge of current Companies OEICs and unit trusts.
These invest mainly in equities, facts and circumstances, assumptions based on that knowledge bonds, cash and cash equivalents, and properties, and distribute and their predictions of future events and actions.
Actual results most of their income.
The Groups percentage ownership in these may differ from those estimates, possibly significantly.
vehicles can fluctuate from day to day according to the Groups The table below sets out those items we consider particularly and third-party participation in them.
Where Group companies susceptible to changes in estimates and assumptions, and the are deemed to control such vehicles, with control determined relevant accounting policy.
based on an analysis of the guidance in IAS 27 and SIC 12, they are consolidated, with the interests of parties other than Aviva Accounting being classified as liabilities.
These appear as Net asset value Item policy attributable to unitholders in the consolidated statement of Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities F&K financial position.
Where the Group does not control such Goodwill, AVIF and intangible assets N vehicles, and these investments are held by its insurance or Fair values of financial investments S Impairment of financial investments S investment funds, they do not meet the definition of associates Fair value of derivative financial instruments T see below and are, instead, carried at fair value through profit Deferred acquisition costs and other assets W and loss within financial investments in the consolidated Provisions and contingent liabilities Z statement of financial position, in accordance with IAS 39, Pension obligations AA Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Deferred income taxes AB As part of their investment strategy, the UK and certain Operations held for sale AG European long-term business policyholder funds have invested in a number of property limited partnerships PLPs, either directly or D Consolidation principles via property unit trusts PUTs, through a mix of capital and loans.
Subsidiaries The PLPs are managed by general partners GPs, in which the Subsidiaries are those entities including special purpose entities long-term business shareholder companies hold equity stakes and in which the Group, directly or indirectly, has power to exercise which themselves hold nominal stakes in the PLPs.
The PUTs are control over financial and operating policies in order to gain managed by a Group subsidiary.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date Accounting for the PUTs and PLPs as subsidiaries, joint on which effective control is transferred to the Group and are ventures or other financial investments depends on the excluded from consolidation from the date the Group no longer shareholdings in the GPs and the terms of each partnership has effective control.
All inter-company transactions, balances and agreement.
Where the Group exerts control over a PLP, it has unrealised surpluses and deficits on transactions between Group been treated as a subsidiary and its results, assets and liabilities companies have been eliminated.
Accounting policies of have been consolidated.
Where the partnership is managed by subsidiaries are aligned on acquisition to ensure consistency with a contractual agreement such that there is joint control between the Group policies.
the parties, notwithstanding that the Groups partnership share in The Group is required to use the acquisition method of the PLP including its indirect stake via the relevant PUT and GP accounting for business combinations.
Under this method, the may be greater than 50%, such PUTs and PLPs have been cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the classified as joint ventures.
Where the Group holds minority stakes consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, in PLPs, with no significant influence or control over their and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
associated GPs, the relevant investments are carried at fair value For each business combination, the Group has the option to through profit and loss within financial investments.
measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable Associates and joint ventures net assets.
The excess of the consideration transferred over the Associates are entities over which the Group has significant fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded influence, but which it does not control.
Generally, it is presumed as goodwill see accounting policy N below.
Acquisition-related that the Group has significant influence if it has between 20% costs are expensed as incurred.
Transactions that do not result in and 50% of voting rights.
Joint ventures are entities whereby the a loss of control are treated as equity transactions with nonGroup and other parties undertake an economic activity which is controlling interests.
subject to joint control arising from a contractual agreement.
In a number of these, the Groups share of the underlying assets and Merger accounting and the merger reserve liabilities may be greater than 50% but the terms of the relevant Prior to 1 January 2004, the date of first time adoption of IFRS, agreements make it clear that control is not exercised.
Such jointly certain significant business combinations were accounted for controlled entities are referred to as joint ventures in these using the pooling of interests method or merger accounting, financial statements.
which treats the merged groups as if they had been combined Gains on transactions between the Group and its associates throughout the current and comparative accounting periods.
and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 151 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2012 interest in the associates and joint ventures.
Losses are also excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance, at the eliminated, unless the transaction provides evidence of an inception of the contract.
Such contracts remain insurance impairment of the asset transferred between entities.
contracts until all rights and obligations are extinguished or Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted expire.
Contracts can be reclassified as insurance contracts after for using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method, inception if insurance risk becomes significant.
Any contracts not the cost of the investment in a given associate or joint venture, considered to be insurance contracts under IFRS are classified as together with the Groups share of that entitys post-acquisition investment contracts.
Some insurance and investment contracts changes to shareholders funds, is included as an asset in the contain a discretionary participating feature, which is a contractual consolidated statement of financial position.
As explained in right to receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed accounting policy N, the cost includes goodwill identified on benefits.
These are referred to as participating contracts.
The Groups share of their post-acquisition profits As noted in accounting policy A above, insurance contracts or losses is recognised in the income statement and its share of and participating investment contracts in general continue to be post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
measured and accounted for under existing accounting practices Equity accounting is discontinued when the Group no longer has at the later of the date of transition to IFRS or the date of the significant influence or joint control over the investment.
acquisition of the entity, in accordance with IFRS 4.
Accounting If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture for insurance contracts in UK companies is determined in equals or exceeds its interest in the undertaking, the Group does accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice issued not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or by the Association of British Insurers, the most recent version of made payments on behalf of the entity.
which was issued in December 2005 and amended in December 2006.
In certain businesses, the accounting policies or accounting The Companys investments estimates have been changed, as permitted by IFRS 4 and IAS 8 In the Company statement of financial position, subsidiaries, respectively, to remeasure designated insurance liabilities to associates and joint ventures are stated at their fair values, reflect current market interest rates and changes to regulatory estimated using applicable valuation models underpinned by the capital requirements.
When accounting policies or accounting Companys market capitalisation.
These investments are classified estimates have been changed, and adjustments to the as available for sale AFS financial assets, with changes in their measurement basis have occurred, the financial statements of fair value being recognised in other comprehensive income and that year will have disclosed the impacts accordingly.
One such recorded in a separate investment valuation reserve within equity.
example is our adoption of Financial Reporting Standard 27, Life Assurance, FRS 27 which was issued by the UKs Accounting E Foreign currency translation Standards Board ASB in December 2004.
Aviva, along with other Income statements and cash flows of foreign entities are major insurance companies and the ABI, signed a Memorandum translated into the Groups presentation currency at average of Understanding with the ASB, under which we voluntarily exchange rates for the year while their statements of financial agreed to adopt in full the standard from 2005 in the Groups position are translated at the year-end exchange rates.
FRS 27 adds to the requirements differences arising from the translation of the net investment of IFRS but does not vary them in any way.
The additional in foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, and of requirements of FRS 27 are detailed in accounting policy borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges K below and in note 55. of such investments, are recognised in other comprehensive income and taken to the currency translation reserve within G Premiums earned equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, such exchange differences Premiums on long-term insurance contracts and participating are transferred out of this reserve and are recognised in the investment contracts are recognised as income when receivable, income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
The except for investment-linked premiums which are accounted for cumulative translation differences were deemed to be zero at when the corresponding liabilities are recognised.
For single the transition date to IFRS.
premium business, this is the date from which the policy is Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the effective.
For regular premium contracts, receivables are exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Gains recognised at the date when payments are due.
Premiums are and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, shown before deduction of commission and before any salesand from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities based taxes or duties.
Where policies lapse due to non-receipt of denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the premiums, then all the related premium income accrued but not income statement.
received from the date they are deemed to have lapsed is offset Translation differences on debt securities and other monetary against premiums.
financial assets measured at fair value and designated as held at General insurance and health premiums written reflect fair value through profit or loss FV see accounting policy S are business incepted during the year, and exclude any sales-based included in foreign exchange gains and losses in the income taxes or duties.
Unearned premiums are those proportions of the statement.
For monetary financial assets designated as AFS, premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the translation differences are calculated as if they were carried at statement of financial position date.
Unearned premiums are amortised cost and so are recognised in the income statement, calculated on either a daily or monthly pro rata basis.
Premiums whilst foreign exchange differences arising from fair value gains collected by intermediaries, but not yet received, are assessed and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income and based on estimates from underwriting or past experience, and included in the investment valuation reserve within equity.
are included in premiums written.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities Deposits collected under investment contracts without a which are designated as FV, are reported as part of the fair value discretionary participating feature non-participating contracts are gain or loss, whereas such differences on AFS equities are not accounted for through the income statement, except for the included in the investment valuation reserve.
fee income covered in accounting policy H and the investment income attributable to those contracts, but are accounted for F Product classification directly through the statement of financial position as an Insurance contracts are defined as those containing significant adjustment to the investment contract liability.
insurance risk if, and only if, an insured event could cause an insurer to make significant additional payments in any scenario, 152 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2012 department and any part of the general administrative costs H Other investment contract fee revenue directly attributable to the claims function.
Investment contract policyholders are charged fees for policy administration, investment management, surrenders or other Long-term business provisions contract services.
The fees may be for fixed amounts or vary with Under current IFRS requirements, insurance and participating the amounts being managed, and will generally be charged as an investment contract liabilities are measured using accounting adjustment to the policyholders balance.
The fees are recognised policies consistent with those adopted previously under existing as revenue in the period in which they are collected unless they accounting practices, with the exception of liabilities remeasured relate to services to be provided in future periods, in which case to reflect current market interest rates to be consistent with the they are deferred and recognised as the service is provided.
value of the backing assets, and those relating to UK with-profit Initiation and other front-end fees fees that are assessed and non-profit contracts.
For liabilities relating to UK with-profit against the policyholder balance as consideration for origination contracts, the Group has adopted FRS 27, Life Assurance, as of the contract are charged on some non-participating described in policy F above, in addition to the requirements investment and investment fund management contracts.
the investment contract is recorded at amortised cost, these fees In the United States, shadow adjustments are made to the are deferred and recognised over the expected term of the policy liabilities or related deferred acquisition costs and are recognised by an adjustment to the effective yield.
Where the investment directly in other comprehensive income.
This means that the contract is measured at fair value, the front-end fees that relate measurement of these items is adjusted for unrealised gains or to the provision of investment management services are deferred losses on the backing assets such as AFS financial investments and recognised as the services are provided.
see accounting policy S, that are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, in the same way as if those gains I Other fee and commission income or losses had been realised.
Other fee and commission income consists primarily of fund The long-term business provisions are calculated separately for management fees, distribution fees from mutual funds, each life operation, based either on local regulatory requirements commissions on reinsurance ceded, commission revenue from the or existing local GAAP at the later of the date of transition to IFRS sale of mutual fund shares and transfer agent fees for shareholder or the date of the acquisition of the entity, and actuarial principles record keeping.
Reinsurance commissions receivable are deferred consistent with those applied in the UK.
Each calculation represents in the same way as acquisition costs, as described in accounting a determination within a range of possible outcomes, where the policy W. All other fee and commission income is recognised as assumptions used in the calculations depend on the circumstances the services are provided.
prevailing in each life operation.
The principal assumptions are disclosed in note 39 b.
For liabilities of the UK with-profit funds, J Net investment income FRS 27 requires liabilities to be calculated as the realistic basis Investment income consists of dividends, interest and rents liabilities as set out by the UKs Financial Services Authority FSA, receivable for the year, movements in amortised cost on debt adjusted to remove the shareholders share of future bonuses.
For securities, realised gains and losses, and unrealised gains and UK non-profit insurance contracts, the Group applies the realistic losses on FV investments as defined in accounting policy S. regulatory basis as set out in the FSA Policy Statement 06 14, Dividends on equity securities are recorded as revenue on the exPrudential Changes for Insurers, where applicable.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, taking Unallocated divisible surplus into account the effective yield on the investment.
It includes the In certain participating long-term insurance and investment interest rate differential on forward foreign exchange contracts.
business, the nature of the policy benefits is such that the division Rental income is recognised on an accruals basis.
between shareholder reserves and policyholder liabilities is A gain or loss on a financial investment is only realised on uncertain.
Amounts whose allocation to either policyholders or disposal or transfer, and is the difference between the proceeds shareholders has not been determined by the end of the financial received, net of transaction costs, and its original cost or year are held within liabilities as an unallocated divisible surplus.
If the aggregate carrying value of liabilities for a particular Unrealised gains and losses, arising on investments which participating business fund is in excess of the aggregate carrying have not been derecognised as a result of disposal or transfer, value of its assets, then the difference is held as a negative represent the difference between the carrying value at the year unallocated divisible surplus balance, subject to recoverability end and the carrying value at the previous year end or purchase from margins in that funds participating business.
Any excess of value during the year, less the reversal of previously recognised this difference over the recoverable amount is charged to net unrealised gains and losses in respect of disposals made during income in the reporting period.
Realised gains or losses on investment property represent the difference between the net disposal proceeds Embedded derivatives and the carrying amount of the property.
Embedded derivatives that meet the definition of an insurance contract or correspond to options to surrender insurance K Insurance and participating investment contracts for a set amount or based on a fixed amount and an contract liabilities interest rate are not separately measured.
All other embedded Claims derivatives are separated and measured at fair value if they are Long-term business claims reflect the cost of all claims arising not considered as closely related to the host insurance contract during the year, including claims handling costs, as well as or do not meet the definition of an insurance contract.
Fair value policyholder bonuses accrued in anticipation of bonus reflects own credit risk to the extent the embedded derivative declarations.
General insurance and health claims incurred include all losses occurring during the year, whether reported or not, Liability adequacy related handling costs, a reduction for the value of salvage At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the and other recoveries, and any adjustments to claims outstanding recognised long-term business provisions are adequate, using from previous years.
current estimates of future cash flows.
If that assessment shows Claims handling costs include internal and external costs that the carrying amount of the liabilities less related assets is incurred in connection with the negotiation and settlement of insufficient in light of the estimated future cash flows, the claims.
Internal costs include all direct expenses of the claims Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 153 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2012 deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up accounted for directly through the statement of financial position an additional provision in the statement of financial position.
as an adjustment to the investment contract liability.
The majority of the Groups contracts classified as nonGeneral insurance and health provisions participating investment contracts are unit-linked contracts and Outstanding claims provisions are measured at fair value.
Certain liabilities for non-linked nonGeneral insurance and health outstanding claims provisions are participating contracts are measured at amortised cost.
based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but The fair value liability is determined in accordance with IAS 39, not settled at the statement of financial position date, whether using a valuation technique to provide a reliable estimate of the reported or not, together with related claims handling costs.
amount for which the liability could be settled between Significant delays are experienced in the notification and knowledgeable willing parties in an arms length transaction, settlement of certain types of general insurance claims, subject to a minimum equal to the surrender value.
For unit-linked particularly in respect of liability business, including environmental contracts, the fair value liability is equal to the current unit fund and pollution exposures, the ultimate cost of which cannot be value, plus additional non-unit reserves if required based on a known with certainty at the statement of financial position date.
For non-linked contracts, the fair Any estimate represents a determination within a range of value liability is based on a discounted cash flow analysis, with possible outcomes.
Further details of estimation techniques allowance for risk calibrated to match the market price for risk.
are given in note 39 c. Amortised cost is calculated as the fair value of consideration Provisions for latent claims are discounted, using rates based received at the date of initial recognition, less the net effect of on the relevant swap curve, in the relevant currency at the payments such as transaction costs and front-end fees, plus or reporting date, having regard to the expected settlement dates of minus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest the claims.
The discount rate is set at the start of the accounting rate method of any difference between that initial amount and period with any change in rates between the start and end of the the maturity value, and less any write-down for surrender accounting period being reflected below operating profit as an payments.
The effective interest rate is the one that equates the economic assumption change.
The range of discount rates used is discounted cash payments to the initial amount.
At each described in note 39 c. Outstanding claims provisions are valued reporting date, the amortised cost liability is determined as the net of an allowance for expected future recoveries.
Recoveries value of future best estimate cash flows discounted at the include non-insurance assets that have been acquired by effective interest rate.
exercising rights to salvage and subrogation under the terms of insurance contracts.
M Reinsurance The Group assumes and cedes reinsurance in the normal course Provision for unearned premiums of business, with retention limits varying by line of business.
The proportion of written premiums, gross of commission payable Premiums on reinsurance assumed are recognised as revenue to intermediaries, attributable to subsequent periods is deferred in the same manner as they would be if the reinsurance were as a provision for unearned premiums.
The change in this considered direct business, taking into account the product provision is taken to the income statement as recognition of classification of the reinsured business.
The cost of reinsurance revenue over the period of risk.
related to long-duration contracts is accounted for over the life of the underlying reinsured policies, using assumptions consistent Liability adequacy with those used to account for these policies.
At each reporting date, the Group reviews its unexpired risks and Where general insurance liabilities are discounted, any carries out a liability adequacy test for any overall excess of corresponding reinsurance assets are also discounted using expected claims and deferred acquisition costs over unearned consistent assumptions.
premiums, using the current estimates of future cash flows Gains or losses on buying retroactive reinsurance are recognised under its contracts after taking account of the investment return in the income statement immediately at the date of purchase and expected to arise on assets relating to the relevant general are not amortised.
Premiums ceded and claims reimbursed are business provisions.
If these estimates show that the carrying presented on a gross basis in the consolidated income statement amount of its insurance liabilities less related deferred acquisition and statement of financial position as appropriate.
costs is insufficient in light of the estimated future cash flows, the Reinsurance assets primarily include balances due from both deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up a insurance and reinsurance companies for ceded insurance and provision in the statement of financial position.
This includes balances in respect of Other assessments and levies investment contracts which are legally reinsurance contracts but The Group is subject to various periodic insurance-related do not meet the definition of a reinsurance contract under IFRS.
assessments or guarantee fund levies.
Related provisions are Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner established where there is a present obligation legal or consistent with the underlying contract liabilities, outstanding constructive as a result of a past event.
Such amounts are claims provisions or settled claims associated with the reinsured not included in insurance liabilities but are included under policies and in accordance with the relevant reinsurance contract.
Provisions in the statement of financial position.
Reinsurance of non-participating investment contracts and reinsurance contracts that principally transfer financial risk are L Non-participating investment accounted for directly through the statement of financial position.
contract liabilities A deposit asset or liability is recognised, based on the consideration paid or received less any explicitly identified Claims premiums or fees to be retained by the reinsured.
These deposit For non-participating investment contracts with an account assets or liabilities are shown within reinsurance assets in the balance, claims reflect the excess of amounts paid over the consolidated statement of financial position.
If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the Contract liabilities carrying amount accordingly and recognises that impairment loss Deposits collected under non-participating investment contracts in the income statement.
A reinsurance asset is impaired if there is are not accounted for through the income statement, except for objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after the investment income attributable to those contracts, but are initial recognition of the reinsurance asset, that the Group may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract, 154 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2012 and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts statement of financial position are carried at historical cost less that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
Investment properties under construction are included within N Goodwill, AVIF and intangible assets property and equipment until completion, and are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in their values until construction Goodwill is completed or fair value becomes reliably measurable.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the write-down the cost of other assets to their residual values over acquired subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of their estimated useful lives as follows: acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 the date of transition to IFRS is carried at its book value original cost Properties under construction No depreciation less cumulative amortisation on that date, less any impairment Owner-occupied properties, and related 25 years subsequently incurred.
Goodwill arising before 1 January 1998 mechanical and electrical equipment was eliminated against reserves and has not been reinstated.
Motor vehicles Three years, or Goodwill arising on the Groups investments in subsidiaries since lease term if longer that date is shown as a separate asset, whilst that on associates Computer equipment Three to five years and joint ventures is included within the carrying value of those Other assets Three to five years investments.
Acquired value of in-force business AVIF The assets residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long-term are reviewed regularly, and at least at each financial year end, and insurance and investment contracts, acquired either directly or adjusted if appropriate.
Where the carrying amount of an asset is through the purchase of a subsidiary, is recognised as an asset.
greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down If the AVIF results from the acquisition of an investment in a joint immediately to its recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposal venture or an associate, it is held within the carrying amount of of property and equipment are determined by reference to their that investment.
In all cases, the AVIF is amortised over the useful carrying amount.
lifetime of the related contracts in the portfolio on a systematic Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition and basis.
The rate of amortisation is chosen by considering the profile construction of property and equipment are capitalised.
All repairs of the additional value of in-force business acquired and the and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement expected depletion in its value.
The value of the acquired in-force during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of long-term business is reviewed annually for any impairment in major renovations is included in the carrying amount of the asset value and any reductions are charged as expenses in the when it is probable that future economic benefits in excess of the income statement.
most recently assessed standard of performance of the existing asset will flow to the Group and the renovation replaces an Intangible assets identifiable part of the asset.
Major renovations are depreciated Intangibles consist primarily of contractual relationships such as over the remaining useful life of the related asset.
access to distribution networks and customer lists.
The economic lives of these are determined by considering relevant factors such P Investment property as usage of the asset, typical product life cycles, potential Investment property is held for long-term rental yields and is not obsolescence, maintenance costs, the stability of the industry, occupied by the Group.
Completed investment property is stated competitive position and the period of control over the assets.
at its fair value, which is supported by market evidence, as These intangibles are amortised over their useful lives, which assessed by qualified external valuers or by local qualified staff range from five to 30 years, using the straight-line method.
of the Group in overseas operations.
Changes in fair values are The amortisation charge for the year is included in the income recorded in the income statement in net investment income.
statement under Other operating expenses.
For intangibles with As described in accounting policy O above, investment finite lives, impairment charges will be recognised in the income properties under construction are included within property and statement where evidence of such impairment is observed.
equipment, and are stated at cost less any impairment in their Intangibles with indefinite lives are subject to regular impairment values until construction is completed or fair value becomes testing, as described below.
Impairment testing Q Impairment of non-financial assets For impairment testing, goodwill and intangibles with indefinite Property and equipment and other non-financial assets are useful lives have been allocated to cash-generating units.
The reviewed for impairment losses whenever events or changes in carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be useful lives is reviewed at least annually or when circumstances or recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by events indicate there may be uncertainty over this value.
Goodwill which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable and indefinite life intangibles are written down for impairment amount, which is the higher of an assets net selling price and where the recoverable amount is insufficient to support its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets carrying value.
Further details on goodwill allocation and are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately impairment testing are given in note 16. identifiable cash flows.
Non-financial assets except goodwill which O Property and equipment have suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Owner-occupied properties are carried at their revalued amounts, which are supported by market evidence, and movements are recognised in other comprehensive income and taken to a separate reserve within equity.
When such properties are sold, the accumulated revaluation surpluses are transferred from this reserve to retained earnings.
These properties are depreciated down to their estimated residual values over their useful lives.
All other items classed as property and equipment within the Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 155 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Impairment R Derecognition and offset of financial assets The Group reviews the carrying value of its AFS investments on a and financial liabilities regular basis.
If the carrying value of an AFS investment is greater A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset than the recoverable amount, the carrying value is reduced or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised through a charge to the income statement in the period of where: impairment.
The following policies are used to determine the The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired.
level of any impairment, some of which involve considerable The Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the judgement: asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a passAFS debt securities: An AFS debt security is impaired if there through arrangement.
is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred which has The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows impaired the expected cash flows, i. e. where all amounts due from the asset and has either transferred substantially all the according to the contractual terms of the security are not risks and rewards of the asset, or has neither transferred nor considered collectible.
An impairment charge, measured as the retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, difference between the securitys fair value and amortised cost, but has transferred control of the asset.
is recognised when the issuer is known to be either in default or in financial difficulty.
Determining when an issuer is in financial A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under difficulty requires the use of judgement, and we consider a the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
number of factors including industry risk factors, financial Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount condition, liquidity position and near-term prospects of the reported in the statement of financial position when there is a issuer, credit rating declines and a breach of contract.
A decline legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and in fair value below amortised cost due to changes in risk-free there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset interest rates does not necessarily represent objective evidence and settle the liability simultaneously.
For securities identified as being impaired, the cumulative S Financial investments unrealised net loss previously recognised within the investment The Group classifies its investments as either financial assets at valuation reserve is transferred to realised losses for the year, fair value through profit or loss FV or financial assets available with a corresponding movement through other comprehensive for sale AFS.
The classification depends on the purpose for income.
Any subsequent increase in fair value of these impaired which the investments were acquired, and is determined by local securities is recognised in other comprehensive income and management at initial recognition.
The FV category has two recorded in the investment valuation reserve unless this increase subcategories those that meet the definition as being held for can be objectively related to an event occurring after the trading and those the Group chooses to designate as FV referred impairment loss was recognised in the income statement.
In such to in this accounting policy as other than trading.
an event, the reversal of the impairment loss is recognised as a In general, the other than trading category is used as, in most gain in the income statement.
cases, the Groups investment or risk management strategy is to manage its financial investments on a fair value basis.
Debt AFS equity securities: An AFS equity security is considered securities and equity securities, which the Group buys with the impaired if there is objective evidence that the cost may not be intention to resell in the short term, are classified as trading, as recovered.
In addition to qualitative impairment criteria, such are non-hedge derivatives see accounting policy T below.
The evidence includes a significant or prolonged decline in fair value AFS category is used where the relevant long-term business below cost.
Unless there is evidence to the contrary, an equity liability including shareholders funds is passively managed, security is considered impaired if the decline in fair value relative as well as in certain fund management and non-insurance to cost has been either at least 20% for a continuous six-month operations.
period or more than 40% at the end of the reporting period, or Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the been in an unrealised loss position for a continuous period of trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase more than 12 months at the end of the reporting period.
We also or sell the assets, at their fair values.
Debt securities are initially review our largest equity holdings for evidence of impairment, as recorded at their fair value, which is taken to be amortised cost, well as individual equity holdings in industry sectors known to be with amortisation credited or charged to the income statement.
Where there is objective evidence that impairment Investments classified as trading, other than trading and AFS, are exists, the security is written down regardless of the size of the subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of unrealised loss.
trading and other than trading investments are included in the For securities identified as being impaired, the cumulative income statement in the period in which they arise.
Changes in unrealised net loss previously recognised within the investment the fair value of securities classified as AFS are recognised in other valuation reserve is transferred to realised losses for the year comprehensive income and recorded in a separate investment with a corresponding movement through other comprehensive valuation reserve within equity.
Any subsequent increase in fair value of these impaired Investments carried at fair value are measured using a fair securities is recognised in other comprehensive income and value hierarchy, described in note 22, with values based on recorded in the investment valuation reserve.
quoted bid prices or amounts derived from cash flow models.
Reversals of impairments on any of these assets are only Fair values for unlisted equity securities are estimated using recognised where the decrease in the impairment can be applicable price earnings or price cash flow ratios refined to objectively related to an event occurring after the write-down reflect the specific circumstances of the issuer.
such as an improvement in the debtors credit rating, and are When securities classified as AFS are sold or impaired, the not recognised in respect of equity instruments.
accumulated fair value adjustments are transferred out of the investment valuation reserve to the income statement with a corresponding movement through other comprehensive income.
156 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2012 the potential obligation of the seller to pay the buyer an interest T Derivative financial instruments rate differential in exchange for a premium paid by the buyer.
This and hedging differential represents the difference between current rate and an Derivative financial instruments include foreign exchange agreed rate applied to a notional amount.
Exposure to gain or contracts, interest rate futures, currency and interest rate swaps, loss on all interest rate contracts will increase or decrease over currency and interest rate options both written and purchased their respective lives as interest rates fluctuate.
and other financial instruments that derive their value mainly from underlying interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit Foreign exchange contracts indices, commodity values or equity instruments.
Foreign exchange contracts, which include spot, forward and All derivatives are initially recognised in the statement of futures contracts, represent agreements to exchange the currency financial position at their fair value, which usually represents their of one country for the currency of another country at an agreed cost.
They are subsequently remeasured at their fair value, with price and settlement date.
Foreign exchange option contracts are the method of recognising movements in this value depending similar to interest rate option contracts, except that they are on whether they are designated as hedging instruments and, if based on currencies, rather than interest rates.
so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Fair values are obtained Exposure to gain or loss on these contracts will increase or from quoted market prices or, if these are not available, by using decrease over their respective lives as currency exchange and valuation techniques such as discounted cash flow models or interest rates fluctuate.
All derivatives are carried as assets when the fair values are positive and as liabilities when the fair values Derivative instruments for hedging are negative.
Premiums paid for derivatives are recorded as an On the date a derivative contract is entered into, the Group asset on the statement of financial position at the date of designates certain derivatives as either: purchase, representing their fair value at that date.
i a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability Derivative contracts may be traded on an exchange or overfair value hedge : the-counter OTC.
Exchange-traded derivatives are standardised ii a hedge of a future cash flow attributable to a recognised and include certain futures and option contracts.
OTC derivative asset or liability, a highly probable forecast transaction or contracts are individually negotiated between contracting parties a firm commitment cash flow hedge : or and include forwards, swaps, caps and floors.
Derivatives are iii a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net subject to various risks including market, liquidity and credit risk, investment hedge.
similar to those related to the underlying financial instruments.
Many OTC transactions are contracted and documented under Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way, International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA master provided certain criteria are met.
At the inception of the agreements or their equivalent, which are designed to provide transaction, the Group documents the relationship between the legally enforceable set-off in the event of default, reducing the hedging instrument and the hedged item, as well as the risk Groups exposure to credit risk.
management objective and the strategy for undertaking the The notional or contractual amounts associated with hedge transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment derivative financial instruments are not recorded as assets or of whether the hedge is expected to be, and has been, highly liabilities on the statement of financial position as they do not effective in offsetting the risk in the hedged item, both at represent the fair value of these transactions.
These amounts inception and on an ongoing basis.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated The Group has collateral agreements in place between the and qualify as net investment or cash flow hedges, and that individual Group entities and relevant counterparties.
Accounting prove to be highly effective in relation to the hedged risk, are policy V below covers collateral, both received and pledged, in recognised in other comprehensive income and a separate reserve respect of these derivatives.
Gains and losses accumulated in this reserve are included in the income statement on disposal of the relevant Interest rate and currency swaps investment or occurrence of the cash flow as appropriate.
Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements between two Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and parties to exchange periodic payments in the same currency, qualify as fair value hedges against assets carried at amortised each of which is computed on a different interest rate basis, on cost are adjusted against the carrying value of the hedged asset a specified notional amount.
Most interest rate swaps involve the to the extent those changes relate to the hedged risk.
This net exchange of payments calculated as the difference between adjustment is then amortised to the income statement over the the fixed and floating rate interest payments.
Currency swaps, in anticipated remaining life of the hedged instrument.
Where the their simplest form, are contractual agreements that involve the hedge is against the value of AFS securities, changes in its value exchange of both periodic and final amounts in two different are recognised in the income statement, partially or wholly offset currencies.
Both types of swap contracts may include the net by a transfer from the investment valuation reserve for the change exchange of principal.
Exposure to gain or loss on these contracts in value of the hedged item.
will increase or decrease over their respective lives as a function of The Group discontinues hedge accounting if the hedging maturity dates, interest and foreign exchange rates, and the instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no timing of payments.
longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
Interest rate futures, forwards and options contracts For a variety of reasons, certain derivative transactions, while Interest rate futures are exchange-traded instruments and providing effective economic hedges under the Groups risk represent commitments to purchase or sell a designated security management positions, do not qualify for hedge accounting or money market instrument at a specified future date and price.
under the specific IFRS rules and are therefore treated as Interest rate forward agreements are OTC contracts in which two derivatives held for trading.
Their fair value gains and losses are parties agree on an interest rate and other terms that will become recognised immediately in other trading income.
a reference point in determining, in concert with an agreed notional principal amount, a net payment to be made by one U Loans party to the other, depending what rate in fact prevails at a future Loans with fixed maturities, including policyholder loans, point in time.
Interest rate options, which consist primarily of caps mortgage loans on investment property, securitised mortgages and floors, are interest rate protection instruments that involve and collateral loans, are recognised when cash is advanced to Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 157 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2012 borrowers.
The majority of these loans are carried at their unpaid these contracts is calculated in accordance with the FSAs realistic principal balances and adjusted for amortisation of premium or capital regime and FRS 27.
For non-participating investment and discount, non-refundable loan fees and related direct costs.
These investment fund management contracts, incremental acquisition amounts are deferred and amortised over the life of the loan as costs and sales enhancements that are directly attributable to an adjustment to loan yield using the effective interest rate securing an investment management service are also deferred.
Loans with indefinite future lives are carried at unpaid Where such business is reinsured, an appropriate proportion principal balances or cost.
of the deferred acquisition costs is attributed to the reinsurer, and For certain mortgage loans, the Group has taken advantage is treated as a separate liability.
of the fair value option under IAS 39 to present the mortgages, Long-term business deferred acquisition costs are amortised associated borrowings and derivative financial instruments at fair systematically over a period no longer than that in which they are value, since they are managed as a portfolio on a fair value basis.
expected to be recoverable out of these future margins.
This presentation provides more relevant information and Deferrable acquisition costs for non-participating investment and eliminates any accounting mismatch that would otherwise arise investment fund management contracts are amortised over the from using different measurement bases for these three items.
period in which the service is provided.
General insurance and The fair values of mortgages classified as FV are estimated using health deferred acquisition costs are amortised over the period in discounted cash flow forecasts, based on a risk-adjusted discount which the related revenues are earned.
The reinsurers share of rate which reflects the risks associated with these products, deferred acquisition costs is amortised in the same manner as the calibrated using the margins available on new lending or with underlying asset.
reference to the rates offered by competitors.
They are revalued Deferred acquisition costs are reviewed by category of at each period end, with movements in their fair values being business at the end of each reporting period and are written-off taken to the income statement.
where they are no longer considered to be recoverable.
At each reporting date, we review loans carried at amortised Other assets include vehicles which are subject to repurchase cost for objective evidence that they are impaired and agreements and inventories of vehicle parts.
The former are uncollectable, either at the level of an individual security or carried at the lower of their agreed repurchase price or net collectively within a group of loans with similar credit risk realisable value, whilst the latter are carried at the lower of cost characteristics.
To the extent that a loan is uncollectable, it is and net realisable value, where cost is arrived at on the weighted written down as impaired to its recoverable amount, measured as average cost formula or first in first out FIFO basis.
Provision is the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the made against inventories which are obsolete or surplus to original effective interest rate of the loan, taking into account the requirements.
fair value of the underlying collateral.
Subsequent recoveries in excess of the loans written-down carrying value are credited to X Statement of cash flows the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at banks and in hand, V Collateral deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other shortterm highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to The Group receives and pledges collateral in the form of cash or non-cash assets in respect of stock lending transactions, certain known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
Such investments are those with less than derivative contracts and loans, in order to reduce the credit risk of these transactions.
Collateral is also pledged as security for bank three months maturity from the date of acquisition, or which are redeemable on demand with only an insignificant change in their letters of credit.
The amount and type of collateral required depends on an assessment of the credit risk of the counterparty.
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and Collateral received in the form of cash, which is not legally segregated from the Group, is recognised as an asset in the cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are included in payables and other financial liabilities on the statement of statement of financial position with a corresponding liability for the repayment in financial liabilities note 49.
the Group has a currently enforceable legal right of set-off, the Operating cash flows collateral liability and associated derivative balances are shown Purchases and sales of investment property, loans and financial net, in line with market practice.
Non-cash collateral received is investments are included within operating cash flows as the not recognised in the statement of financial position unless the purchases are funded from cash flows associated with the Group either a sells or repledges these assets in the absence origination of insurance and investment contracts, net of of default, at which point the obligation to return this collateral payments of related benefits and claims.
is recognised as a liability: or b the counterparty to the arrangement defaults, at which point the collateral is seized Y Leases and recognised as an asset.
Leases, where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of Collateral pledged in the form of cash, which is legally ownership is retained by the lessor, are classified as operating segregated from the Group, is derecognised from the statement leases.
Where the Group is the lessee, payments made under of financial position with a corresponding receivable recognised operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor for its return.
Non-cash collateral pledged is not derecognised are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over from the statement of financial position unless the Group defaults the term of the relevant leases.
on its obligations under the relevant agreement, and therefore Where the Group is the lessor, lease income from operating continues to be recognised in the statement of financial position leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line within the appropriate asset classification.
basis over the lease term.
When assets are subject to finance leases, the present value W Deferred acquisition costs and other assets of the lease payments, together with any unguaranteed residual Costs relating to the acquisition of new business for insurance value, is recognised as a receivable.
The Group has not entered and participating investment contracts are deferred in line with into any material finance lease arrangements either as lessor existing local accounting practices, to the extent that they are or lessee.
expected to be recovered out of future margins in revenues on these contracts.
For participating contracts written in the UK, acquisition costs are generally not deferred as the liability for 158 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2012 For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions Z Provisions and contingent liabilities to publicly or privately administered pension plans.
Once the Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal contributions have been paid, the Group, as employer, has no or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more further payment obligations.
The Groups contributions are probable than not that an outflow of resources embodying charged to the income statement in the year to which they relate economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and and are included in staff costs.
a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and Other post-employment obligations employee termination payments.
Provisions are not recognised for Some Group companies provide post-employment healthcare or future operating losses.
other benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for is usually based on the employee remaining in service up to example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement Unlike the pension schemes, no assets are set aside in separate is virtually certain.
funds to provide for the future liability but none of these schemes The Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts when is material to the Group.
The costs of the Canadian scheme are the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are less than included within those for the defined benefit pension schemes in the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the that country.
For such schemes in other countries, provisions are contract.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed if there is a possible calculated in line with local regulations, with movements being future obligation as a result of a past event, or if there is a present charged to the income statement within staff costs.
obligation as a result of a past event but either a payment is not probable or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated.
Equity compensation plans The Group offers share award and option plans over the AA Employee benefits Companys ordinary shares for certain employees, including a Annual leave and long service leave Save As You Earn plan SAYE plan, details of which are given Employee entitlements to annual leave and long service leave are in the Directors Remuneration Report and in note 30. recognised when they accrue to employees.
A provision is made The Group accounts for options and awards under equity for the estimated liability for annual leave and long service leave compensation plans, which were granted after 7 November 2002, as a result of services rendered by employees up to the statement until such time as they are fully vested, using the fair value based of financial position date.
method of accounting the fair value method.
Under this method, the cost of providing equity compensation plans is based Pension obligations on the fair value of the share awards or option plans at date of The Group operates a large number of pension schemes, whose grant, which is recognised in the income statement over the members receive benefits on either a defined benefit basis expected vesting period of the related employees and credited to generally related to a members final salary and length of service the equity compensation reserve, part of shareholders funds.
In or a defined contribution basis generally related to the amount certain jurisdictions, awards must be settled in cash instead of invested, investment return and annuity rates, the assets of which shares, and the credit is taken to liabilities rather than reserves.
are generally held in separate trustee-administered funds.
The The fair value of these cash-settled awards is recalculated each pension plans are generally funded by payments from employees year, with the income statement charge and liability being and the relevant Group companies.
For defined benefit plans, the pension costs are assessed using As described in accounting policy AD below, shares purchased the projected unit credit method.
Under this method, the cost of by employee share trusts to fund these awards are shown as a providing pensions is charged to the income statement so as to deduction from shareholders funds at their original cost.
spread the regular cost over the service lives of employees.
The When the options are exercised and new shares are issued, pension obligation is measured as the present value of the the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited estimated future cash outflows, using a discount rate based on to share capital par value and the balance to share premium.
market yields for high-quality corporate bonds that are Where the shares are already held by employee trusts, the net denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid proceeds are credited against the cost of these shares, with the and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of difference between cost and proceeds being taken to retained the related pension liability.
The resulting pension scheme surplus earnings.
In both cases, the relevant amount in the equity or deficit appears as an asset or liability in the consolidated compensation reserve is then credited to retained earnings.
Costs charged to the income statement comprise the current AB Income taxes service cost the increase in pension obligation resulting from The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the employees service in the current period, together with the year, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Tax, including schemes administration expenses, past service cost resulting tax relief for losses if applicable, is allocated over profits before from changes to benefits with respect to previous years service, taxation and amounts charged or credited to components of and gains or losses on curtailment when the employer materially other comprehensive income and equity, as appropriate.
reduces the number of employees covered by the scheme or on Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken settlements when a schemes obligations are transferred outside for deferred tax assets, using the liability method, on all material the Group.
In addition, the difference between the expected temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and return on scheme assets, less investment expenses, and the liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial interest cost of unwinding the discount on the scheme liabilities statements.
to reflect the benefits being one period closer to being paid out The principal temporary differences arise from depreciation is credited to investment income.
All actuarial gains and losses, of property and equipment, revaluation of certain financial assets being the difference between the actual and expected returns on and liabilities including derivative contracts, provisions for scheme assets, changes in assumptions underlying the liability pensions and other post-retirement benefits and tax losses carried calculations and experience gains or losses on the assumptions forward: and, in relation to acquisitions, on the difference made at the beginning of the period, are recognised immediately between the fair values of the net assets acquired and their tax in other comprehensive income.
The rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date are used to determine the deferred tax.
Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 159 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable ii the instrument is a non-derivative that contains no contractual that future taxable profit will be available against which the obligation to deliver a variable number of shares or is a temporary differences can be utilised.
In countries where there is derivative that will be settled only by the Group exchanging a a history of tax losses, deferred tax assets are only recognised in fixed amount of cash or other assets for a fixed number of the excess of deferred tax liabilities if there is convincing evidence that Groups own equity instruments.
future profits will be available.
Share issue costs Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising from Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can proceeds of the issue and disclosed where material.
be controlled and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Dividends Deferred taxes are not provided in respect of temporary Interim dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, or from the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends on these shares goodwill for which amortisation is not deductible for tax are recognised when they have been approved by shareholders.
purposes, or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability Dividends on preference shares are recognised in the period in in a transaction which is not a business combination and affects which they are declared and appropriately approved.
neither accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.
Treasury shares Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised in other Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys comprehensive income and directly in equity are similarly share capital or obtain rights to purchase its share capital, the recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity consideration paid including any attributable transaction costs respectively.
Deferred tax related to fair value re-measurement of net of income taxes is shown as a deduction from total available for sale investments, owner-occupied properties and shareholders equity.
The Groups only such holding comprises other amounts charged or credited directly to other shares purchased by employee trusts to fund certain awards comprehensive income is recognised in the statement of financial under the equity compensation plans described in accounting position as a deferred tax asset or liability.
Current tax on interest policy AA above.
Gains and losses on sales of own shares are paid on direct capital instruments and fixed rate tier 1 notes is charged or credited to the treasury share account in equity.
In addition to paying tax on shareholders profits, the Groups AE Fiduciary activities life businesses in the UK, Ireland and Singapore pay tax on Assets and income arising from fiduciary activities, together with policyholders investment returns policyholder tax on certain related undertakings to return such assets to customers, are products at policyholder tax rates.
Policyholder tax is accounted for excluded from these financial statements where the Group has as an income tax and is included in the total tax expense.
The no contractual rights in the assets and acts in a fiduciary capacity Group has decided to show separately the amounts of policyholder such as nominee, trustee or agent.
tax to provide a more meaningful measure of the tax the Group pays on its profits.
In the pro forma reconciliations, operating profit AF Loss earnings per share has been calculated after charging policyholder tax.
Basic losses earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income available to ordinary shareholders by the weighted AC Borrowings average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, Borrowings are classified as being for either core structural or excluding the weighted average number of ordinary shares operational purposes.
They are recognised initially at their issue purchased by the Group and held as Treasury shares.
proceeds less transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently, most Earnings per share has also been calculated on the adjusted borrowings are stated at amortised cost, and any difference operating profit before impairment of goodwill and other between net proceeds and the redemption value is recognised adjusting items, after tax, attributable to ordinary shareholders, in the income statement over the period of the borrowings as the directors believe this figure provides a better indication using the effective interest rate method.
All borrowing costs are of operating performance.
Details are given in note 14. expensed as they are incurred except where they are directly For the diluted earnings per share, the weighted average attributable to the acquisition or construction of property and number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume equipment as described in accounting policy O above.
conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as Where loan notes have been issued in connection with certain convertible debt and share options granted to employees.
securitised mortgage loans, the Group has taken advantage of Potential or contingent share issuances are treated as dilutive the revised fair value option under IAS 39 to present the when their conversion to shares would decrease net losses mortgages, associated liabilities and derivative financial earnings per share.
instruments at fair value, since they are managed as a portfolio on a fair value basis.
This presentation provides more relevant AG Operations held for sale information and eliminates any accounting mismatch which Assets and liabilities held for disposal as part of operations which would otherwise arise from using different measurement bases are held for sale are shown separately in the consolidated for these three items.
Operations held for sale are recorded at the lower of their carrying amount and their fair AD Share capital and treasury shares value less the estimated selling costs.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all its liabilities.
Accordingly, a financial instrument is treated as equity if: i there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or liabilities on terms that may be unfavourable: and
