2 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Our plan to change Aviva In July 2012 we set out to reposition Aviva Aviva has great strengths which we can build on.
We have a focused portfolio of businesses under a strong brand: some, such as the UK, France and Canada are great cash generators, while others represent growth potential, such as Poland, Turkey and Singapore.
In early 2012, we reviewed all of our businesses in the light of legitimate concerns about our performance.
We concluded that we must: build up capital and financial strength improve the profitability of underperforming parts of our business reduce costs and eliminate bureaucracy become a less complex organisation Taking all this into account, in July 2012, we produced a plan designed to transform Aviva: Focus, Strengthen, Perform This plan is successfully addressing the immediate issues.
So far, we have exited a number of businesses, improved Avivas capital position and there are plans to improve the operating performance of our underperforming businesses.
We will now take Aviva to the next phase of its turnaround.
Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 3 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Our plan to change Aviva continued Narrow focus When we assessed our business we identified 58 distinct revenueearning business areas.
15 of them were performing particularly well.
27 werent realising their full potential and 16 were performing below acceptable levels.
We decided to: Focus on businesses where we can produce attractive returns Improve underperforming businesses E xit businesses which we do not consider central to our future growth Build financial strength We resolved to improve our economic capital levels so that they are in line with our industry peers.
We plan to do this by making disposals and reducing the amount of capital we allocate to businesses producing lower returns.
Our goals were to: Maintain an economic capital coverage ratio of between 160% and 175% Reduce capital volatility Improve performance We concluded we must deliver better revenue growth, lower losses and claims, and improved profitability.
We decided to: Develop new revenue growth, mainly in our core UK, European and Canadian markets Reduce annual expenses by 400 million by the start of 2014 Change our culture to remove bureaucracy and ensure our people perform to their full potential
