The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 39 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued IFRS 13, Fair value measurement effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise denition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements, which are largely aligned between lFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other standards within IFRSs or US GAAP.
The company is yet to assess IFRS 13s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 13 no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2012, subject to endorsement by the EU.
lAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 updates the application guidance in lAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation, to clarify some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
iii New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the current financial year and not relevant to the Companys operations: IFRS 1 amendments, First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements lAS 1 amendment Financial Statement Presentation lAS 12 amendment Income Taxes lAS 19 amendment Employee Benets lAS 27 Separate Financial Statements lAS 28 Associates and joint venture b Basis of consolidation The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of the Company and of its sole wholly owned subsidiary undertaking, The Army and Navy Investment Company Limited.
Consistent accounting policies have been used across the Group.
The intragroup balances are eliminated on consolidation.
The investment in the subsidiary is recognised at fair value in the financial statements of the Company.
c Investments held at fair value through profit or loss All investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Investment transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
Assets are fide-recognised at the trade date of the disposal.
Proceeds are measured at fair value, which are regarded as the proceeds of sale less any transaction costs.
The fair value of the financial instruments in the balance sheet is based on their quoted bid price at the balance sheet date, without deduction of the estimated future selling costs.
Unquoted investments including the Companys investment in its subsidiary are valued by the directors using primary valuation techniques such as earnings multiples, recent transactions and net assets.
Where fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investment will be carried at the previous reporting date value unless there is evidence that the investment has since been impaired, in which case the value will be reduced.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Also included within this caption are transaction costs in relation to the purchase or sale of investments, including the difference between the purchase price of an investment and its bid price at the date of purchase.
