The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 5 Managers Review of movement during the year as we liquidated holdings in early summer following a sharp upward movement in share prices.
There was a growing feeling that corporate earnings were recovering but we felt the degree of optimism might be misplaced.
We decided to reduce holdings in both the UK and Europe as negotiations in Europe concerning the euro were Alex Crooke stagnating and economic activity in the region was impacted negatively by the impasse.
Cash balances were rebuilt, to such a I commented last year that there had been a notable shift in level that they offset the debentures, resulting in no net gearing stock market sentiment towards quality companies, both during the summer.
By September we felt more comfortable in defensive and growth orientated, with dependable and terms of supportive comments from Mario Draghi, the new consistent earnings growth.
This investment style remained in Governor of the European Central Bank, along with a reduction favour during our financial year and our stock selection once in corporate profit forecasts, resetting valuations to more realistic more produced good returns above benchmarks in most levels.
The cash balances were run down through purchases in regions.
The UK, Europe and Japan produced a second year of the US, Pacic and Europe.
outperformance and the Pacic region turned in a strong year outperforming by 8.3%, more than offsetting the -2.2% Percentage of total assets invested by company underperformance in 2011.
The US and Emerging Markets both market capitalisation missed their performance targets due to a small number of % poorly performing investments, although the US did in addition 60 suffer from a size bias where the mid and smaller capitalised Bankers 50 50:50 Composite Benchmark stocks that have benefited us in the past underperformed the 40 very largest companies last year.
It is now ten years since I 30 started managing Bankers and over this period the stock 20 selection element of our performance has delivered a positive 10 contribution of 7.7% during eight of these ten years.
0 I believe this demonstrates the strength in stock selection of the 20bn 1-20bn 250m-1bn 250m team that manages the assets.
Source: Henderson Global Investors Ltd Asset allocation, by contrast, is often more difficult to get right, particularly given the desire to balance a revenue account and our Our stock selection remains biased towards dividend paying requirement to deliver ination-beating dividend growth.
Our companies as we feel they offer the best balance of security and principal challenge has always been capturing returns when the the ability to distribute growing levels of cash ow generated US market outperforms other markets.
The US market carries by their businesses.
Corporates have progressively reduced roughly half the dividend return of the Pacic, Europe or the UK borrowings since 2008 resulting in equities being generally safer and, given its size, it is challenging to fully weight an exposure to investments and allowing the potential for special dividends or the US and still generate an adequate level of income.
During the share buybacks to support returns.
We are gradually rebuilding past decade we have had a positive contribution from asset an exposure to more cyclically exposed sectors such as mining allocation in six years out of ten in aggregate generating over and industrials but we will need greater clarity about economic 6.4% of outperformance.
It is telling that in each of the four growth before rotating the portfolio more radically.
The overall years where there has been a negative contribution from asset portfolio is biased toward mid-sized companies 250m to allocation the US market has outperformed the wider global 20bn as shown above and therefore less exposed to the very equity market.
Over the last ten years Bankers net asset total largest mega-cap companies.
This bias has served us well in the return has delivered growth of 143%, comfortably ahead of the past, as mid-sized companies are big enough to garner scale composite benchmark return of 118% and far in excess of the efficiencies while having potential to grow more quickly, taking concept of a lost decade for equity investors perpetuated by market share from larger competitors.
We have ended the period with gearing of 3.9%, slightly higher Alex Crooke than the previous year end of 3.2%.
However there was a degree 18 January 2013
