64 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 Investor Information Results Dividends Half year announced June Ordinary shares: Full year announced January First interim paid end May Second interim paid end August The Report and Financial Statements are posted to shareholders in January and the AGM is held in London in late February.
Third interim paid end November Final paid end February Share Price Information The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is Debenture stock interest published in The Financial Times and other leading 1 10 % debenture stock 2016 and 8% debenture stock 2023 2 newspapers.
The share price and details of the Companys paid on 30 April and 31 October.
performance can be found on the following websites: www.
com Ongoing charges and www.
com Ongoing charges are those expenses of a type which are likely to recur in the foreseeable future, whether charged to capital or The London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List SEDOL code is revenue, and which relate to the operation of the Company as a 0076700. collective fund, excluding the costs of acquisition or disposal of The Financial Times also provides on a daily basis an estimate of investments, nancing charges and gains or losses arising on the net asset value and of the discount premium.
Ongoing charges are based on actual costs incurred A brief history in the year as being the best estimate of future costs.
The Company was incorporated in 1888.
Since seven of the nine Nominee Code original directors were bankers by profession, the name The The Bankers Investment Trust PLC undertakes to provide Bankers Investment Trust, Limited was considered appropriate.
copies of shareholder communications to nominee operators The Company has paid dividends on the equity capital every year since incorporation except in the years 1892 and 1893. who have indicated in advance a wish to receive them, for the purpose of distribution to their customers.
Keeping up to date with The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Nominee operators are encouraged to advise investors that Website they are able to attend meetings and to speak at meetings For more information about The Bankers Investment Trust PLC when invited by the Chairman.
com Investors through Halifax Share Dealing Limited receive all HGi shareholder communications, an invitation to the AGM and HGi is a content platform that offers a new level of online a Voting Instruction Form to facilitate voting.
personalisation where you can follow investment experts, topics and the trusts that are of interest to you.
By creating Disability your HGi prole you will be updated regularly on the topics Copies of this Report and Financial Statement or other that interest you most, bringing you closer to Hendersons documents issued by the Company are available from the investment expertise.
Scan the QR code or use this If needed, copies can be made available in a variety of formats, short URL to register for HGi.
either Braille or on audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
co g51 You can contact our registrars, Equiniti Limited, who have Follow us on Twitter installed textphones to allow speech and hearing impaired To get the latest updates follow us on people who have their own textphone to contact them directly Twitter @HGiTrusts by ringing 0870 600 3950 without the need for an intermediate Investing in Bankers operator.
Specially trained operators are available during normal Ordinary shares may be bought directly through Halifax Share business hours to answer queries via this service.
In addition, they may be bought or sold directly Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator through a stockbroker, accountant, other independent financial provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People you adviser or through a number of banks or building societies who are also providing this service.
should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
Investor Information continued Directors Independent Auditors Richard Brewster Chairman  LLP, Richard Burns 7 More London Riverside, Susan Inglis appointed 1 November 2012 London SE1 2RT Richard Killingbeck Senior Independent Director Registrars Peter Sullivan UK Registrar Matthew Thorne Equiniti Limited, Audit Committee Aspect House, Matthew Thorne Chairman Spencer Road, Susan Inglis Lancing, Richard Killingbeck West Sussex BN99 6DA Peter Sullivan Telephone: 0871 384 2471 44 0 121 415 7047 Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Management Engagement Committee Lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
Richard Brewster Chairman Richard Burns There is now a range of shareholder information online.
You Susan Inglis can check your holding and nd practical help on transferring Richard Killingbeck shares or updating your details at www.
co. uk Peter Sullivan New Zealand Registrar Matthew Thorne Computershare Investor Services Limited, Nominations Committee Private Bag 92119, Richard Brewster Chairman Victoria Street West, Richard Killingbeck Auckland 1142, New Zealand Peter Sullivan Telephone: New Zealand 64 09 488 8777 Investment Manager Stockbrokers Henderson Global Investors Limited is UK authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority JP Morgan Cazenove, and is represented by Alex Crooke 25 Bank Street, Canary Wharf, Secretary London E14 5SP Henderson Secretarial Services Limited represented by Wendy King FCIS New Zealand First NZ Capital Securities, Registered Number Level 20, ANZ Centre, Registered in England No.
00026351 23-29 Albert Street, Registered Ofce PO Box 5333, 201 Bishopsgate, Auckland, London EC2M 3AE New Zealand Telephone: 020 7818 1818 Solicitors Norton Rose, 3 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AQ Custodian BNP Paribas Securities Services, 55 Moorgate, London EC2R 6PA The Company is a member of The Company is a member of Halifax Share Dealing Limited Lovell Park Road, Leeds LS1 1NS Telephone: 0845 609 0408 Email: communications@halifax Website: www.
co. uk The Bankers Investment Trust PLC is managed by This report is printed on Revive, a paper containing 50% recycled bre from both preand post-consumer waste and 50% FSC certied virgin bre.
Pulps used are elemental chlorine free manufactured at a mill accredited with the ISO 14001 environmental management system.
The FSC logo identies products which contain wood from well managed forests certied in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This report was printed by Pureprint Group using their pureprint environmental print technology which minimises the negative environmental impacts of the printing process.
Vegetable-based inks were used throughout and 99% of the dry waste and 95% HGI9201 2012 of the cleaning solvents associated with this production were recycled.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral company.
