The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 41 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Investment trusts which have approval as such under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Statement of Comprehensive Income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
h Dividends payable to shareholders Dividends payable to shareholders are recognised in the financial statements when they are paid or, in the case of final dividends, when they are approved by shareholders.
Dividends paid are disclosed in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
i Foreign currency For the purposes of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity is expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the presentation currency of the Group.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company and its subsidiary operate.
Transactions recorded in overseas currencies during the year are translated into sterling at the appropriate daily exchange rates.
Monetary assets and liabilities and equity investments held at fair value through profit or loss that are denominated in overseas currencies at the balance sheet date, are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at that date.
Exchange gains and losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss are included within Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and on demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and that are subject to an insignicant risk of changes in value.
k Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans, overdrafts and debentures are recorded initially at fair value, being the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the Statement of Comprehensive Income using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
l Repurchase of ordinary shares The cost of repurchasing ordinary shares including related stamp duty and transaction costs are taken directly to equity and disclosed in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Share repurchase transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
The nominal value of ordinary share capital repurchased and cancelled is transferred out of called-up share capital and into the capital redemption reserve.
42 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued m Capital reserves The following are accounted for in the Capital reserve arising on investments sold: expenses and finance costs charged to capital net of tax relief: gains and losses on the disposals of investments: realised foreign exchange differences of a capital nature: and costs of repurchasing ordinary share capital.
The following are accounted for in the Capital reserve arising on investments held: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end: and unrealised foreign exchange differences of a capital nature.
n Key estimates and assumptions Estimates and assumptions used in preparing the financial statements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The results of these estimates and assumptions form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
There are no estimates and assumptions that may cause material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities.
o Policy on operating segments Under IFRS 8, operating segments are considered to be the components of an entity, about which separate financial information is available, that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision-maker the Investment Manager, with oversight from the Board in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
The directors meet regularly to consider investment strategy and to monitor the Companys performance.
The Portfolio Manager, who has been appointed to manage the Companys investments, attends all Board meetings at which investment strategy and performance are discussed.
The directors consider that the Group has two operating segments: i the Parent Company, The Bankers Investment Trust PLC, which invests in shares and securities primarily for capital appreciation and dividend growth in accordance with the Companys published investment objective: and ii its wholly owned subsidiary, The Army and Navy Investment Company Limited, which trades in securities to enhance the Groups returns.
See also note 25 for further details on operating segments.
The business is not managed on a geographical basis, however, for the convenience of investors, disclosure by geographical segment has been provided in note 3 and in the Portfolio Review on pages 5 to 18.
Further analyses of expenses, investment gains or losses, profit and other assets and liabilities by country have not been given as either it is not possible to prepare such information in a meaningful way or the results are not considered to be significant.
