40 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued d Presentation of Statement of Comprehensive Income In accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net revenue is the measure the directors believe appropriate in assessing the Groups compliance with certain requirements set out in Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. e Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Special dividends are treated as revenue return or as capital return, depending on the facts of each individual case.
Income from xed interest debt securities is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
The trading profits of the subsidiary undertaking, which represent realised gains and losses on the sale of current asset investments, are disclosed in the revenue return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income as a revenue item.
Bank deposit interest and stock lending income are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Where the Company enters into a commitment to underwrite an issue of securities in exchange for the receipt of commission, a derivative financial instrument is recognised initially at fair value.
The derivative is re-measured subsequently at fair value, with the related gains and losses being reected in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Net losses arising from these derivatives, where actual or expected loss from taking up the securities underwritten exceeds the commission income are allocated to the capital return.
Net gains are allocated to the revenue return.
f Expenses All expenses and interest payable are accounted for on an accruals basis.
On the basis of the Boards expected longterm split of total returns in the form of capital and revenue returns of 70% and 30%, respectively, the Company charges 70% of its finance costs and investment management fees to capital.
Any performance fees payable are allocated wholly to capital, reecting the fact that, although they are calculated on a total return basis, they are expected to be attributable largely, if not wholly, to capital performance.
Expenses which are incidental to the purchase or sale of an investment are charged to the capital return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income and allocated to other capital reserves.
All other operating expenses are charged to the revenue return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
g Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using the effective tax rate of corporation tax for the accounting period.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
