38 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated and parent company financial statements for the year ended 31 October 2012 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
IFRSs comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that IFRSs have been adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRSs, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis consistent with the recommendations of the SORP.
Accounting Standards i New and amended standards adopted by the Company: IFRS 1 amendment, First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards amendments resulting from the 2010 annual improvement review.
No impact on the financial statements.
IFRS 7 amendment, Financial lnstruments Disclosures amendments resulting from the 2010 annual improvement review.
lAS 24 revised, Related Party Disclosures disclosure amendment in respect of commitments with related parties.
ii New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the current financial year and not early adopted by the Company: IFRS 7 amendment, Financial Instruments Disclosures effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 amendments enhancing disclosures about offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 addresses the classication, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 and October 2010.
It replaces the parts of lAS 39 that relate to the classication and measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classied into two measurement categories: those measured as at fair value and those measured at amortised cost.
The determination is made at initial recognition.
The classication depends on the entitys business model for managing its financial instruments and the contractual cash ow characteristics of the instrument.
For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the lAS 39 requirements.
The main change is that, in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch.
The company is yet to assess IFRS 9s full impact and intends to adopt lFRS 9 no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012 includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
The Company is yet to assess IFRS 12s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 12 no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
