2 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 Contents Directors Review Financial Statements Objectives and Policy 34 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 1 Summary of the Year and Total Return Income Performance 35 Consolidated and Parent Company Statements 3 Chairmans Statement of Changes in Equity 36 Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Portfolio Review Sheets 5 Managers Review 37 Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow 6 United Kingdom Statements 8 Europe 38 Notes to the Financial Statements 10 North America 12 Japan Investor Information 14 Pacic ex Japan 61 Independent Auditors Report 16 Emerging Markets 62 Statistical Record Unaudited 16 Fixed Interest 62 Rates of Exchange 17 Performance Attribution 62 Distribution of Assets and Liabilities 17 Explanation of Movement in Net Asset Value 63 Largest Investments per Ordinary Share 63 Changes in Investments 18 Portfolio Structure 64 Investor Information Directors Report 19 Directors and Management 20 Report of the Directors 32 Directors Remuneration Report 33 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Inside front cover The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 3 Chairmans Statement s Net Asset Value total return was 9.4% over the year s Total annual dividend for 2012 increased by 5% and forecasting a minimum increase of 4% for 2013 s 46th consecutive year of dividend increases Richard Brewster Performance and Markets holdings of both Impala Platinum and Petroleo Brasileiros.
In recent months our position in Petroleo Brasileiros has been It is pleasing to be able to present to shareholders an increase reduced signicantly while we expect a recovery in the in net asset value, share price and dividend.
Our careful and platinum price will improve the prospects for Impala.
diverse selection of investments continues to deliver steady growth.
A further recovery in investment income has allowed us to exceed our forecast and raise the annual dividend again.
Revenue and Dividends There has been a substantial recovery in our investment However, it is disappointing to repeat the same problems that income over the year, with gross revenue up 13.4% have overhung markets in recent years being high levels of compared to last year.
While a portion of the growth in government debt and little evidence of a lasting resolution in income has been as a result of a number of special dividends, Europe.
It appeared that a degree of progress was being the underlying investment income increased by 11.9%, year made in the US during the first half of our year and this lifted on year.
There is typically a time lag between the recovery of expectations.
The summer months witnessed a return to earnings and dividends as companies wait for confidence to uncertainty which held back consumer spending and return to their businesses before they increase dividends.
It is corporate investment, delaying orders and causing company encouraging that we are now seeing the benets of the earnings to stall.
The second half of the year produced little recovery in corporate profits.
It is interesting to note that our progress in share prices and a return to more volatile market overseas investment income has exceeded that of our UK conditions.
Despite all of this the Company achieved a net based investments for the second year running.
This reects asset value total return of 9.4% over the year, which both the increased asset allocation overseas in recent years, compared to a total return of 9.8% for the composite and most especially the fact that in the US market companies benchmark index, with the majority of our investment returns like Apple are paying dividends for the first time.
The rate of being made in the first half.
Our performance has closely growth in income will moderate in the coming year but our matched the index returns for much of the year with our forecasts still show further progress in revenue even excluding Portfolio Manager making gains by successful stock selection any uplift from further special dividends.
in most markets, but which were eroded by the overall We are recommending a final dividend of 3.43p, making a regional asset allocation.
Asset allocation is always challenging total of 13.33p for the year, an increase of 5%.
This reects a as it involves so many variable global factors, but we expect to better outturn than we predicted last year and extends our add value in this area, in addition to gains from stock long term record of increasing dividends to shareholders every selection.
Greater resources are being engaged by our year since 1966.
The great strength of the size of our revenue Manager to assist in optimising returns from geographic reserve is the ability to protect shareholders from the volatility allocations and this should further improve results over time.
of earnings and smooth the dividends we pay out.
Looking to As I reported to you last year, stock selection has in general 2013, we are able to forecast a dividend per share of not less exceeded the returns from local indices but this useful work than 13.86p, which represents an increase of 4%.
has been negated by an underweight position in US stocks, which delivered the greatest returns, in sterling terms, for a Annual General Meeting second year.
The UK, European, Japanese and Pacic regional The Annual General Meeting this year will be held at Stationers portfolios all beat their local index returns, reecting our Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London EC4M 7DD on 26 February 2013 Portfolio Managers careful selection of stocks that pay good at 12 noon.
This is the same venue that we used in 2012.
We dividends and have strong franchises.
The results in the Pacic are returning for two reasons.
First, it is my own Livery Hall and region were particularly welcome, delivering a 15.7% total I have a great affection for it but, more importantly, it proved return and justifying our overweight stance in this area of the very popular with shareholders who attended last year.
The two regions that underperformed their respective details of the business of the Meeting are set out in the Notice indices were the US and Emerging Markets.
The strategy of of Meeting, which accompanies this Report and Financial focusing on medium sized companies in the US resulted in Statements.
Directions and a map showing the location of the under performance relative to the largest capitalised stocks, AGM can also be found on the Notice of the AGM.
As usual which increased in value more, possibly benefiting from their our Portfolio Manager, Alex Crooke, and his team will be additional overseas earnings and a ight to safety by investors.
After the ofcial business of the The shortfall in the emerging markets portfolio was due to the meeting and refreshments I am delighted to offer shareholders decline in the value of commodities which impacted the the opportunity of a short talk which will be given by 4 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 Chairmans Statement continued Tim Connell, Professor Emeritus, City University London entitled lowest in the Global Growth sector, and indeed amongst all Would the City be the City without Livery Companies.
We believe that the key characteristics of Bankers, offering consistent growth in income and capital Governance and Board changes from a broadly diversied portfolio of global companies, is Investment Trust Boards are proud of being able to very attractive and your Board is working with our Manager demonstrate levels of governance that open-ended investment to spread this message to a wider audience of new investors.
Your Board is independent and takes We are also making changes to how we present gures to its responsibilities most seriously.
We review the Managers allow a better comparison with the wider spectrum of performance throughout the year and hold a major review of investment funds.
We have adopted the standardised all aspects of the service provided by your Manager at the end denitions of gearing and expenses now called ongoing of the financial year.
Our priority is to ensure that the charges recently recommended by the AIC.
management agreement serves the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
It is our opinion that the current Outlook relationship with Henderson Global Investors achieves this.
Good governance is dependent on having a Board of Directors The Company will be 125 years old in April and, at times over with the right blend of skills, experience and character.
In this those years, my predecessors had to contend with an outlook respect I am pleased to bring you up to date with that must have been truly bleak.
However, the Company has developments.
endured and remained true to its long term commitment of growing shareholders capital and income.
There remain some On 1 November 2012 we strengthened your Board by the notable barriers to returning the world to a steady state of appointment of Susan Inglis.
Sue is the first woman to join economic growth but it is likely that the events that currently the Board in our long history and she is a most welcome trouble investors such as the slowing Chinese economy or addition bringing with her a legal and investment company balancing the US deficit will in due course be resolved.
high level of debt in the world may mean that economies will It is eight years since I became Chairman and it is time to grow at a slower pace than in previous periods of expansion pass on the baton to a younger person.
I am pleased to tell but well managed companies should succeed in growing at a you that Richard Killingbeck has agreed to take on the greater pace.
The quality of corporate balance sheets and Chairmanship from this summer.
Richard has served your earnings has signicantly improved since the downturn which Company most diligently for nine years and especially as gives us comfort that their dividends and in turn their senior independent director over the last two years.
He has attraction to investors should continue to increase.
Good very considerable experience in financial services and fund quality companies can provide both attractive yields and a management in particular and I am confident that he will degree of protection from rising ination that bonds do not.
maintain the values and standards that are the hallmark of Bankers long term success.
A global equity fund such as Bankers is therefore well placed to offer an attractive investment for people saving for their Retail Distribution Review future.
1,000 invested 30 years ago with all dividends From 1 January 2013, the market place for selling retail re-invested would today have a value of 38,951.
This investment products in the UK has changed radically, as compares with the return from cash invested in a bank commissions paid to advisers by funds have been banned.
deposit account with interest re-invested over that same This should provide a more level playing eld for investment period of 4,145.
These are difficult times for savers as cash companies such as Bankers when competing for investors deposits carry negative real interest rates: whereas there are with open-ended products and we hope more advisers will real merits of investing in a savings product offering, such as recommend investment companies to their clients.
It has a superior track record of long-term capital growth and increasing dividends in real terms.
The above In view of the above comments we have decided to simplify gures showing the comparison of returns over 30 years the management fee arrangements and drop the performance fee paid to our Manager and return to a simple speak for themselves.
xed percentage fee of 0.4% per annum of net assets following regulatory approval.
On 1 November 2013 this is expected to move to 0.45%, subject to review more details Richard Brewster, Chairman can be found on page 22.
This fee remains one of the 18 January 2013
