The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 31 Report of the Directors continued also sets out how Henderson implements the Stewardship Annual General Meeting AGM Code.
The Company has delegated responsibility for voting The AGM will be held on 26 February 2013 at 12 noon.
The Board will receive a report, at least Separate resolutions will be proposed for each substantive issue.
annually, on the voting undertaken by the Manager on The formal notice of the AGM as well as full details of the behalf of the Company.
resolutions to be put at the AGM are contained in the separate circular being sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
The Board and Henderson believe that voting at general meetings is an important aspect of corporate stewardship  LLP have indicated their willingness and a means of signalling shareholder views on Board to continue in ofce.
Accordingly, resolutions to re-appoint policy, practices and performance.
Voting recommendations  LLP as auditors to the Company, and are guided by the best interests of the investee companies to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will shareholders.
Depending on the nature of the resolution, be proposed at the AGM.
the Portfolio Manager and or members of the Board will Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information give specic instructions on voting non-routine and unusual to Auditors or controversial resolutions.
Decisions not to support The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of resolutions and the rationale therefore are fed back to approving this Report are listed on page 19.
Each of those the investee company prior to voting.
Directors confirms that: The Henderson Responsible Investment Policy and further to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no details of Hendersons responsible investment activities can information relevant to the preparation of the Annual be found on the Henderson website, www.
com Report and Financial Statements of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Employee and environmental matters The Companys has no employees and outsources its he or she has taken all the steps a Director might investment management and Company Secretarial Services reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the to subsidiaries of Henderson.
Henderson has implemented Companys auditors are aware of that information.
environmental management practices including systems to limit the use of non-renewable resources and to minimise the By order of the Board impact of operations on the environment.
Henderson is focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and Wendy King FCIS minimising waste, where possible.
For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited Secretary 18 January 2013 Warning to Shareholders Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the Companys Registrar, Equiniti Limited, would make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such calls would relate only to ofcial documentation already circulated to shareholders and never in respect of investment advice.
If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone call, please call either the Company Secretary or the Registrar at the numbers provided on the inside back cover.
