Shareholder information Articles of Association vii A Director may appoint either another Director or some other The Company was incorporated in England on 20 July 1896 under the person approved by the Board to act as his her alternate with Companies Acts 1862 to 1890 as a company limited by shares and power to attend Board meetings and generally to exercise the was reregistered in 1982 as a public limited company under the functions of the appointing Director in his her absence other Companies Acts 1948 to 1980.
The Company is registered under than the power to appoint an alternate.
The Company was reregistered as Barclays PLC on 1 January 1985. viii The Board may authorise any matter in relation to which a Director has, or can have, a direct interest that conflicts, or Under the Companies Act 2006 Act a companys Memorandum of possibly may conflict with, the Companys interests.
Only Directors Association now need only contain the names of the subscribers and who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take.
For authorise the relevant matter and they may impose limits or companies in existence as of 1 October 2009, all other provisions conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is which were contained in the companys Memorandum of Association, appropriate.
including the companys objects, are now deemed to be contained in the companys articles.
The Act also states that a companys objects ix A Director may hold positions with or be interested in other are unrestricted unless that companys articles provide otherwise.
companies and, subject to legislation applicable to the Company Barclays PLC adopted new Articles of Association at its Annual General and the FSAs requirements, may contract with the Company or Meeting AGM on 30 April 2010 to reflect these changes and as a any other company in which the Company is interested.
A Director result its objects are now unrestricted.
may not vote or count towards the quorum on any resolution concerning any proposal in which he she or any person connected with him her has a material interest other than by The Company may, by Special Resolution, amend its Articles of Association.
In addition to the changes referred to above, the Articles virtue of his her interest in securities of the Company or if he she has a duty which conflicts or may conflict with the interests of the of Association adopted at the 2010 AGM updated the Articles of Association to reflect the implementation of the remaining provisions Company, unless the resolution relates to any proposal: of the Companies Act 2006.
The following is a summary of the current Articles of Association Articles : a to indemnify a Director or provide him her with a guarantee or security in respect of money lent by him her to, or any obligation incurred by him her or any other person for the Directors i The minimum number of Directors excluding alternate Directors benefit of or at the request of, the Company or any other member of the Group : is five.
There is no maximum limit.
There is no age limit for Directors.
b to indemnify or give security or a guarantee to a third party in respect of a debt or obligation of the Company or any other ii Excluding executive remuneration and any other entitlement to remuneration for extra services including service on board member of the Group for which the Director has personally assumed responsibility: committees under the Articles, a Director is entitled to a fee at a rate determined by the Board but the aggregate fees paid to all Directors shall not exceed 2,000,000 per annum or such higher c to obtain insurance for the benefit of Directors: amount as may be approved by an ordinary resolution of the Company.
Each Director is entitled to reimbursement for all d involving the acquisition by a Director of any securities of the travelling, hotel and other expenses properly incurred by him her Company pursuant to an offer to existing holders of in or about the performance of his her duties.
securities or to the public: iii No Director may act either himself herself or through his her e that the Director underwrite any issue of securities of the firm as an auditor of the Company.
A Director may hold any other Company or any of its subsidiaries : office of the Company on such terms as the Board shall determine.
f concerning any other company in which the Director is iv At each AGM of the Company, one third of the Directors rounded interested as an officer or creditor or shareholder but, broadly, down are required to retire from office by rotation and may offer only if he she together with his her connected persons is themselves for re-election.
The Directors so retiring are those who directly or indirectly interested in less than 1% of either any have been longest in office and in the case of equality of service class of the issued equity share capital or of the voting rights length are selected by lot.
Other than a retiring Director, no of that company: and person shall unless recommended by the Board be eligible for election unless a member notifies the Company Secretary in g concerning any other arrangement for the benefit of advance of his her intention to propose a person for election.
employees of the Company or any other member of the Group under which the Director benefits or stands to benefit v The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors or to fill a in a similar manner to the employees concerned and which casual vacancy amongst the Directors.
Any Director so appointed does not give the Director any advantage which the holds office until the next AGM, when he she may offer himself employees to whom the arrangement relates would not herself for re-election.
He she is not taken into account in receive.
determining the number of Directors retiring by rotation.
x A Director may not vote or be counted in the quorum on any vi The Board may appoint any Director to any executive position or resolution which concerns his her own employment or employment in the Company on such terms as they determine.
appointment to any office of the Company or any other company in which the Company is interested.
346 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information xi Subject to applicable legislation, the provisions described in If the Board considers that the distributable profits of the Company sub-paragraphs ix and x may be relaxed or suspended by an available for distribution are insufficient to cover the payment in full of ordinary resolution of the members of the Company or any Preference Dividends, Preference Dividends shall be paid to the extent applicable governmental or other regulatory body.
of the distributable profits on a pro rata basis.
xii A Director is required to hold an interest in ordinary shares having Notwithstanding the above, the Board may, at its absolute discretion, a nominal value of at least 500, which currently equates to 2,000 determine that any Preference Dividend which would otherwise be Ordinary Shares unless restricted from acquiring or holding such payable may either not be payable at all or only payable in part.
interest by any applicable law or regulation or any applicable governmental or other regulatory body.
A Director may act before If any Preference Dividend on a series of Preference Shares is not paid, acquiring those shares but must acquire the qualification shares or is only paid in part, for the reasons described above, holders of within two months from his her appointment.
Where a Director is Preference Shares will not have a claim in respect of such nonunable to acquire the requisite number of shares within that time payment.
owing to law, regulation or requirement of any governmental or other relevant authority, he she must acquire the shares as soon If any dividend on a series of Preference Shares is not paid in full on the as reasonably practicable once the restriction s end.
relevant dividend payment date, a dividend restriction shall apply.
The dividend restriction means that, subject to certain exceptions, neither xiii The Board may exercise all of the powers of the Company to the Company nor Barclays Bank may a pay a dividend on, or b borrow money, to mortgage or charge its undertaking, property redeem, purchase, reduce or otherwise acquire, any of their respective and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities.
ordinary shares, other preference shares or other share capital ranking equal or junior to the relevant series of Preference Shares until the earlier of such time as the Company next pays in full a dividend on the Classes of Shares The Company only has Ordinary Shares in issue.
The Articles also relevant series of Preference Shares or the date on which all of the relevant series of Preference Shares are redeemed.
provide for Sterling preference shares of 100 each, Dollar preference shares of $100 each, Dollar preference shares of $0.25 each, Euro preference shares of 100 each and Yen preference shares of 10,000 All unclaimed dividends payable in respect of any share may be each together, the Preference Shares.
In accordance with the invested or otherwise made use of by the Board for the benefit of the authority granted at the AGM, Preference Shares may be issued by the Company until claimed.
If a dividend is not claimed after 12 years of it Board from time to time in one or more series with such rights and becoming payable, it is forfeited and reverts to the Company.
subject to such restrictions and limitations as the Board may determine.
No Preference Shares have been issued to date.
The Articles The Board may although it currently does not, with the approval of an contain provisions to the following effect: ordinary resolution of the Company, offer shareholders the right to choose to receive an allotment of additional fully paid Ordinary Shares i Dividends instead of cash in respect of all or part of any dividend.
Subject to the provisions of the Articles and applicable legislation, the Company in General Meeting may declare dividends on the Ordinary ii Voting Shares by ordinary resolution, but such dividend may not exceed the Every member who is present in person or by proxy or represented at amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may also pay interim any general meeting of the Company, and who is entitled to vote, has or final dividends if it appears they are justified by the Companys one vote on a show of hands when a proxy is appointed by more than financial position.
one member, the proxy will have one vote for and one vote against a resolution if he has received instructions to vote for the resolution by Each Preference Share confers the right to a non-cumulative one or more members and against the resolution by one or more preferential dividend Preference Dividend payable in such currency at members.
On a poll, every member who is present or represented and such rates whether fixed or calculated by reference to or in accordance who is entitled to vote has one vote for every share held.
In the case of with a specified procedure or mechanism, on such dates and on such joint holders, only the vote of the senior holder as determined by order other terms as may be determined by the Board prior to allotment in the share register or his proxy may be counted.
If any sum payable thereof.
remains unpaid in relation to a members shareholding, that member is not entitled to vote that share or exercise any other right in relation to a meeting of the Company unless the Board otherwise determine.
The Preference Shares rank in regard to payment of dividend in priority to the holders of Ordinary Shares and any other class of shares in the Company ranking junior to the Preference Shares.
If any member, or any other person appearing to be interested in any of the Companys Ordinary Shares, is served with a notice under Section Dividends may be paid on the Preference Shares if, in the opinion of the 793 of the Act and does not supply the Company with the information required in the notice, then the Board, in its absolute discretion, may Board, the Company has sufficient distributable profits, after payment in full or the setting aside of a sum to provide for all dividends payable direct that that member shall not be entitled to attend or vote at any meeting of the Company.
The Board may further direct that if the on or in the case of shares carrying a cumulative right to dividends, before the relevant dividend payment date on any class of shares in shares of the defaulting member represent 0.25% or more of the issued shares of the relevant class, that dividends or other monies the Company ranking pari passu with or in priority to the relevant series of Preference Shares as regards participation in the profits of the payable on those shares shall be retained by the Company until the direction ceases to have effect and that no transfer of those shares shall Company.
be registered other than certain specified excepted transfers.
A direction ceases to have effect seven days after the Company has received the information requested, or when the Company is notified that an excepted transfer of all of the relevant shares to a third party has occurred, or as the Board otherwise determines.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 347 Shareholder information continued iii Transfers v Calls on capital Ordinary Shares may be held in either certificated or uncertificated The Directors may make calls upon the members in respect of any form.
Certificated Ordinary Shares shall be transferred in writing in any monies unpaid on their shares.
A person upon whom a call is made usual or other form approved by the Board and executed by or on remains liable even if the shares in respect of which the call is made behalf of the transferor.
Transfers of uncertificated Ordinary Shares have been transferred.
Interest will be chargeable on any unpaid shall be made in accordance with the Act and Uncertificated Securities amount called at a rate determined by the Board of not more than Regulations.
The Board is not bound to register a transfer of partly paid Ordinary If a member fails to pay any call in full following notice from the Board Shares, or fully paid shares in exceptional circumstances approved by that such failure will result in forfeiture of the relevant shares, such the FSA.
The Board may also decline to register an instrument of shares including any dividends declared but not paid may be forfeited transfer of certificated Ordinary Shares unless it is duly stamped and by a resolution of the Board, and will become the property of the deposited at the prescribed place and accompanied by the share Company.
Forfeiture shall not absolve a previous member for amounts certificate s and such other evidence as reasonably required by the payable by him her which may continue to accrue interest.
Board to evidence right to transfer, it is in respect of one class of shares only, and it is in favour of not more than four transferees except in the The Company also has a lien over all partly paid shares of the Company case of executors or trustees of a member.
for all monies payable or called on that share and over the debts and liabilities of a member to the Company.
If any monies which are the Preference Shares may be represented by share warrants to bearer or subject of the lien remain unpaid after a notice from the Board be in registered form.
demanding payment, the Company may sell such shares.
Preference Shares represented by share warrants to bearer are vi Variation of Rights transferred by delivery of the relevant warrant.
Preference Shares in The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied either with the registered form shall be transferred in writing in any usual or other consent in writing of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the form approved by the Board and executed by or on behalf of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
The Companys registrar shall register such transfers of Preference Shares in registered form by making the appropriate entries in the register of Preference Shares.
The rights of shares shall not unless expressly provided by the rights attached to such shares be deemed varied by the creation of further Each Preference Share shall confer, in the event of a winding up or any shares ranking equally with them.
return of capital by reduction of capital other than, unless otherwise provided by their terms of issue, a redemption or purchase by the Annual and other general meetings Company of any of its issued shares, or a reduction of share capital, The Company is required to hold an AGM in addition to such other the right to receive out of the surplus assets of the Company available general meetings as the Directors think fit.
The type of the meeting will for distribution amongst the members and in priority to the holders of be specified in the notice calling it.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the the Ordinary Shares and any other shares in the Company ranking AGM must be held within six months of the financial year end.
A junior to the relevant series of Preference Shares and pari passu with general meeting may be convened by the Board on requisition in any other class of Preference Shares, repayment of the amount paid up accordance with the applicable legislation.
or treated as paid up in respect of the nominal value of the Preference Share together with any premium which was paid or treated as paid In the case of an AGM, a minimum of 21 clear days notice is required.
when the Preference Share was issued in addition to an amount equal The notice must be in writing and must specify the place, the day and to accrued and unpaid dividends.
the hour of the meeting, and the general nature of the business to be transacted.
A notice convening a meeting to pass a special resolution iv Redemption and Purchase shall specify the intention to propose the resolution as such.
The Subject to applicable legislation and the rights of the other accidental failure to give notice of a general meeting or the non-receipt shareholders, any share may be issued on terms that it is, at the option of such notice will not invalidate the proceedings at such meeting.
of the Company or the holder of such share, redeemable.
The Directors are authorised to determine the terms, conditions and manner of Subject as noted above, all shareholders are entitled to attend and vote redemption of any such shares under the Articles.
While the Company at general meetings.
The Articles do, however, provide that currently has no redeemable shares in issue, any series of Preference arrangements may be made for simultaneous attendance at a satellite Shares issued in the future will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at meeting place or, if the meeting place is inadequate to accommodate the option of the Company on a date not less than five years after the all members and proxies entitled to attend, another meeting place may date on which such series of Preference Shares was first issued.
Note be arranged to accommodate such persons other than that specified in that under the Companies Act 1985, in addition to obtaining the notice of meeting, in which case shareholders may be excluded shareholder approval, companies required specific enabling provisions from the principal place.
in their articles to purchase their own shares.
Following implementation of the Act, this enabling provision is now included in the Act and is Holders of Preference Shares have no right to receive notice of, attend therefore no longer included in the Articles.
Shareholder approval is still or vote at, any general meetings of the Company as a result of holding required under the Act in order to purchase shares.
348 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Limitations on foreign shareholders Indemnity There are no restrictions imposed by the Articles or subject to the Subject to applicable legislation, every current and former Director or effect of any economic sanctions that may be in force from time to other officer of the Company other than any person engaged by the time by current UK laws which relate only to non-residents of the UK company as auditor shall be indemnified by the Company against any and which limit the rights of such non-residents to hold or when liability in relation to the Company, other than broadly any liability to entitled to do so vote the Companys Ordinary Shares.
the Company or a member of the Group, or any criminal or regulatory fine.
Notices A document or information may be sent by the Company in hard copy Date of form, electronic form, by being made available on a website, or by appointment another means agreed with the recipient, in accordance with the Officers of the Group as officer provisions set out in the Act.
Accordingly, a document or information may only be sent in electronic form to a person who has agreed to Lawrence Dickinson Company Secretary 2002 receive it in that form or, in the case of a company, who has been Mark Harding Group General Counsel 2003 deemed to have so agreed pursuant to applicable legislation.
A document or information may only be sent by being made available on Thomas L. Kalaris Chief Executive of Wealth and 2009 a website if the recipient has agreed to receive it in that form or has Investment Banking been deemed to have so agreed pursuant to applicable legislation, and Executive Chairman of has not revoked that agreement.
Barclays in the Americas In respect of joint holdings, documents or information shall be sent to Robert Le Blanc Chief Risk Officer 2004 the joint holder whose name stands first in the register.
Peter Estlin Co-Head of Finance 2012 A member who having no registered address within the UK has not Mark Merson Financial Controller and 2012 supplied an address in the UK at which documents or information Co-Head of Finance may be sent is not entitled to have documents or information sent to him her.
Maria Ramos Group Chief Executive, Absa 2009 and Barclays Africa In addition, the Company may cease to send notices to any member Rich Ricci Chief Executive of Corporate 2009 who has been sent documents on two consecutive occasions over a and Investment Banking period of at least 12 months and when each of those documents is returned undelivered or notification is received that they have not been Sir Hector Sants Head of Compliance and 2013 delivered.
Government and Regulatory Relations Capitalisation of profits Valerie Soranno CEO, Barclaycard 2012 The Company may, by ordinary resolution, upon the recommendation Keating of the Board capitalise all or any part of an amount standing to the credit of a reserve or fund to be set free for distribution provided that Ashok Vaswani CEO, Retail and Business 2012 amounts from the share premium account, capital redemption reserve Banking or any profits not available for distribution should be applied only in paying up unissued shares to be allotted to members credited as fully paid and no unrealised profits shall be applied in paying up debentures of the Company or any amount unpaid on any share in the capital of the Company.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 349
