The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Index A D I Accounting Derivatives and other financial instruments Impairment charges 240 developments 141 credit risk 245-246 notes to the accounts 238-241 policies 253-256 notes to the accounts 126 risk management 228 presentation Directors and officers 275-276 Intangible assets Africa Retail and Business Banking 67-69 biographies 156-157 Interest rate risk 214-215 business analysis 88-93 emoluments 302 Investment in associates and joint 208 business description 103 interests ventures 307-309 notes to the accounts Allowance for impairment Investment Bank 271 notes to the accounts 62-66 Directors report 218-219 business analysis 127 risk management 251 Dividends 208 business description 251 Earnings per share 353 Annual General Meeting 171 Economic capital 233 Annual Report and Accounts K approval 207 Assets by class of business 198-201 Key performance indicators E 229-230 Auditors reports 257 Available for sale investments Employees 71 diversity and inclusion L 71 involvement B 271-272, 311 Events after the balance sheet date 277 Leasing Barclaycard 70 Executive management structure 281-284 Legal proceedings 216-217 business analysis 172-186 Liquidity Risk 208 business description 271 Loans and advances to banks 271 Loans and advances to customers F 210-211 Business analysis retail business banking 258-270 Fair value of financial instruments 252 Financial assets designated at fair M value 3 Financial and operating highlights C 155-161 Market Risk 257 Financial liabilities designated at 346-348 Memorandum and Articles of Capital adequacy data fair value Association 162-171 capital management and resources 197-224 Financial review 204 capital ratios 4-6 Chairmans statement N G 30-31 Citizenship 233 Consolidated balance sheet 243 Net fee and commission income Glossary refer to 235 Consolidated cash flow statement http: group.
com 231 Consolidated income statement 242-243 Net interest income about-barclays investor-relations 232 Consolidated statement of annual-reports comprehensive income 291 Non-controlling interests 275-276 Goodwill 284-285 Competition and regulatory 8-9 Group Chief Executives review matters 118-121 Concentrations of credit risk 280-281 Contingent liabilities and commitments H Head Office and Other Operations Corporate Banking 220-221 business analysis 224 business analysis 208 business description 208 business description Corporate governance 38-61 corporate governance report 41 attendance at board meetings 116-154 Credit risk 240 Critical accounting estimates 239 Currency of presentation 160 Currency risk barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 351 Index continued O S 304-306 Off-balance sheet arrangements 272 Securities borrowing, securities lending, repurchasing and reverse Operating expenses repurchase agreements 247 administration and general expenses 302-304 Securitisation 292-293 staff costs Segmental reporting 289 Ordinary shares, share premiums, 207 by class of business and other equity 208 by geographical segments 293-295 Share-based payments 345-350 Shareholder information P 286-289 Subordinated liabilities 236-237 Parent Company accounts Barclays PLC Pension T Pensions 88-93 Directors Tax 296-300 notes to the accounts 25 tax contribution 115 tax risk 128 Potential credit risk loans 247-250 notes to accounts 228 Presentation of information 273-274 Property, Plant and equipment 204 Total assets 279-280 Provisions 252 Trading portfolio R U Risk Management UK Retail and Business Banking 108 Barclays approach to risk 210-211 business analysis management 208 business description 108-115 principal risks 116-154 credit risk management 155-161 market risk management W 162-171 capital risk management 172-186 liquidity risk management Wealth and Investment Management 187 operational risk management 222-223 business analysis 190-195 supervision and regulation 208 business description 307-309 Related Party transactions 72-103 Remuneration report 290 Reserves 207-224 Results by business 108-115 Risk factors 165-166 Risk weighted assets 352 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Shareholder information Your Barclays Shareholding Key dates Unclaimed dividends 2012 Final dividend payment date We are aware that some shareholders do not keep their personal 15 March details on the share register up to date.
Therefore we conducted Barclays 2013 Annual General Meeting 25 April a tracing process to re-unite over 24,000 Barclays Sharestore members, identified by The Registrar as having lost contact with us, 2013 First interim dividend payment date 7 June with their unclaimed dividends.
As at 31 December 2012, we had returned 1.8 million of unclaimed dividends to our shareholders.
2013 Second interim dividend payment date 13 September 2013 Third interim dividend payment date 13 December Please note that these dates are provisional and subject to change.
Keep your personal details up to date Annual General Meeting AGM Please remember to tell The Registrar if you move house or need to update your bank details.
If you are a Barclays e-view member, you This years AGM will be held at the Royal Festival Hall, Southbank Centre, Belvedere Road, London SE1 8XX on Thursday, 25 April 2013. can update your details online.
If you hold 2,500 shares or less, you can change your address or update your bank details quickly and easily The meeting will start at 11am.
over the phone using the contact details opposite.
If you hold more than 2,500 shares you will need to write to The Registrar.
You must You can find out more at provide a copy of your share certificate, Sharestore statement or recent www.
com agm dividend tax voucher.
If these are not available, you will need to provide a copy of a utility bill dated in the last three months.
Dividends We will accelerate our progressive dividend policy from 2014, targeting Duplicate documents a payout ratio of 30% over time.
It is our policy to pay cash dividends If you receive duplicate documents and split dividends on your Barclays on a quarterly basis.
There will be three equal quarterly payments in June, September and December and a final variable payment in shares, this may be because you have more than one account on the Barclays share register.
If you think that this affects you and you would like March each year.
to combine your shareholdings, please contact The Registrar to Barclays.
Save time and receive your dividends faster!
You can choose to have your dividends paid directly into your bank ShareGift your shares or building society account.
It is easy to set up and your money will ShareGift, the charity donation scheme, is a free service for be in your bank account on the dividend payment date.
If you hold shareholders wanting to give shares to charitable causes.
2,500 shares or less, you can provide your bank or building society Further information can be obtained at www.
org details quickly and easily over the telephone using the contact or by telephoning ShareGift on 44 0 20 7930 3737. details overleaf.
If you hold more than 2,500 shares, please write to The Registrar.
To find out more contact The Registrar to Barclays or visit www.
com dividends Shareholder Security Shareholders should be very wary of any unsolicited investment advice and offers to buy shares at a discounted price.
These calls are typically from fraudsters operating boiler rooms.
If you are concerned that you may have been targeted by fraudsters please contact The Registrar to Barclays.
More information about these scams and information on how you can protect yourself is available from the FSA at www.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 353 Shareholder enquiries Useful contact details The Registrar to Barclays If you have any questions about your Barclays shares, please contact The Registrar to Barclays: questions@share-registers.
co. uk 0871 384 2055 in the UK 44 121 415 7004 from overseas ABC Textphone 0871 384 2255 in the UK 44 121 415 7028 from overseas The Registrar to Barclays Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Shareholder Relations To give us your feedback please contact @barclays.
com Shareholder Relations Barclays PLC Barclays e-view 1 Churchill Place You do not have to receive paper shareholder information.
Many London E14 5HP Barclays shareholders go online to find out about their shareholding and Barclays performance.
Barclays e-view allows you to manage Share price your shares online and receive the latest updates directly by email.
To join Barclays e-view, please follow these 3 easy steps: Information on the Barclays share price and other share price tools are available at www.
com investorrelations Go to Step 1 Barclays Stockbrokers www.
co. uk If you hold your shares in Barclays Sharestore, you are only able to deal through Barclays Stockbrokers www.
co. uk Register for electronic communications Step 2 by following the instructions on screen.
0845 601 7788 in the UK 44 141 352 3909 from overseas You will be sent an activation code Step 3 Notes in the post the next working day.
Calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
If you have any questions, please contact The Registrar to Barclays.
Call costs may vary please check with your telecoms provider.
Calls may be recorded so that we can monitor the quality of our service and for security purposes.
Alternative formats Shareholder documents can be provided in large print, audio CD This Report is printed on Amadeus 100 Offset made from 100% or Braille free of charge by calling FSC certified recycled fibre sourced from fide-inked post-consumer waste.
The printer and manufacturing mill are both credited with the Barclays Shareholder Helpline.
ISO14001 Environmental Management Systems Standard and both are FSC certified.
0871 384 2055 in the UK Registered office: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP 44 121 415 7004 from overseas Registered in England.
Registered No: 48839 Barclays Bank PLC 2013 Audio versions of the Annual Review 9912863 will also be available at the AGM.
co. uk Calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Photography by Philip Gatward Building the Go-To bank Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 The strategic report Tough questions, honest answers An overview of our 2012 performance, a focus on our new strategic direction, Barclays is changing.
We are changing the way we do business, changing the type of business we do and setting and a review of the businesses a new course for the future.
That means we are listening underpinning our strategy more than ever before, to our customers and clients, our employees and to all of the people our work impacts.
Group overview 02 Our businesses 03 The portraits that appear in this Annual Review are of Chairmans statement 04 real Barclays customers.
The tough questions featured Group Chief Executives review 08 What we want to be 10 throughout are the ones that we have been consistently How we will get there 12 asked, throughout this year by our stakeholders.
How we create value 14 More detail can be found online at Business review www.
com annualreport UK Retail and Business Banking UKRBB 16 Europe Retail and Business Banking Europe RBB 17 Africa 18 Barclaycard 19 Investment Bank 20 Corporate Banking 22 Wealth and Investment Management 23 Group Finance Directors review 24 Risk 26 Corporate Governance 28 Citizenship 30 Summary remuneration report 32 Summary financial statements 36 Share capital 39 Shareholder information 41 The term Barclays PLC Group or the Group means Barclays PLC together with its subsidiaries statements include, among others, statements regarding the Groups future financial position, and the term Barclays Bank PLC Group means Barclays Bank PLC together with its subsidiaries.
income growth, assets, impairment charges, business strategy, capital ratios, leverage, payment Barclays and Group are terms which are used to refer to either of the preceding groups when of dividends, projected levels of growth in the banking and financial markets, projected costs, the subject matter is identical.
The term Company, Parent Company or Parent refers to commitments in connection with the Transform Programme, estimates of capital expenditures Barclays PLC and the term Bank refers to Barclays Bank PLC.
In this report, the abbreviations and plans and objectives for future operations and other statements that are not historical fact.
m and bn represent millions and thousands of millions of pounds sterling respectively: By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to the abbreviations $m and $bn represent millions and thousands of millions of US Dollars future events and circumstances, including, but not limited to, UK domestic, Eurozone and global respectively: m and bn represent millions and thousands of millions of euros respectively and macroeconomic and business conditions, the effects of continued volatility in credit markets, C$m and C$bn represent millions and thousands of millions of Canadian dollars respectively.
market related risks such as changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates, effects of changes in valuation of credit market exposures, changes in valuation of issued notes, the policies Unless otherwise stated, the income statement analyses compare the 12 months to 31 December and actions of governmental and regulatory authorities including requirements regarding capital 2012 to the corresponding 12 months of 2011 and balance sheet comparisons, relate to the and Group structures and the potential for one or more countries exiting the Eurozone, changes corresponding position at 31 December 2011.
Unless otherwise stated, all disclosed figures relate in legislation, the further development of standards and interpretations under IFRS and prudential to continuing operations.
Relevant terms that are used in this document but are not defined under capital rules applicable to past, current and future periods, evolving practices with regard to the applicable regulatory guidance or International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are explained interpretation and application of standards under IFRS, the outcome of current and future legal in the glossary online at www.
A hard copy can be provided on request proceedings, the success of future acquisitions and other strategic transactions and the impact of by contacting Barclays Investor Relations, Barclays PLC, 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP.
competition, a number of such factors being beyond the Groups control.
As a result, the Groups actual future results may differ materially from the plans, goals, and expectations set forth in the Adjusted profit before tax and adjusted performance measures have been presented to Groups forward-looking statements.
provide a more consistent basis for comparing business performance between periods.
Adjusted profit before tax is explained further on page 24 and defined in the online glossary Any forward-looking statements made herein speak only as of the date they are made.
com annualreport as required by the UK Financial Services Authority, the London Stock Exchange plc the LSE or applicable law, Barclays expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any Forward-looking statements updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in This document contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E Barclays expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the US Securities on which any such statement is based.
The reader should, however, consult any additional Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to certain of the Groups plans and its current goals disclosures that Barclays has made or may make in documents it has published or may publish and expectations relating to its future financial condition and performance.
Barclays cautions via the Regulatory News Service of the LSE and or has filed or may file with the US Securities and readers that no forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance and that actual Exchange Commission.
results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical The Annual Review includes certain information required to be included in the joint Barclays PLC or current facts.
Forward-looking statements sometimes use words such as may, will, seek, and Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2012.
Form 20-F will contain as exhibits continue, aim, anticipate, target, projected, expect, estimate, intend, plan, certificates pursuant to Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, signed by the goal, believe, achieve or other words of similar meaning.
Examples of forward-looking Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Tough questions, honest answers W hat does being the Go-To bank mean and how will it affect me?
Being the Go-To bank means being the instinctive partner of choice for anyone looking to do banking business, whether a small business, first-time house buyer, or a large corporate undertaking a complex merger or acquisition deal.
Customers and clients will benefit from being firmly in the centre of everything we do.
For further information on becoming the Go-To bank, please see page 8. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 01 Group overview While 2012 was a difficult year for Barclays, financial performance was strong.
Results clearly demonstrate the good momentum in our businesses and a robust capital and liquidity position.
Adjusted total income Adjusted profit before tax Liquidity pool 29,043m 7,048m 150bn Total adjusted income was up 2%.
Adjusted profit before tax up 26%, Liquidity pool remains strong and Statutory income down 24% to 24,691m with significant contribution from both well within our liquidity risk appetite investment and retail banking activities.
Statutory profit before tax down to 246m Gross new lending to UK People supported Dividends per share 44.0bn 1.2 million 6.5p We provided 44bn of gross new lending to Helped to improve the enterprise, financial Despite challenges faced, underlying UK households and businesses including an and life skills of more than 1.2 million 10 to performance enables us to pay a full year estimated 5.7bn of net new lending under 35 year olds through a range of programmes dividend of 6.5p Funding for Lending Schemes The KPIs presented below reflect the way in we will use a balanced scorecard to monitor Key performance indicators which the performance of the Group has been the performance and delivery of the new KPIs measured during 2012.
These KPIs will be strategy.
For more information on the superseded to align with the new strategy and balanced scorecard, please see page 13.
Statutory Adjusted Measures 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Core Tier 1 ratio 10.9% 11.0% 10.8% Capital Adjusted gross leverage 19x 20x 20x Return on average shareholders equity RoE 1.9 % 5.8% 7.2% 7.8% 6.6% 6.8% Returns Return on average tangible equity RoTE 2.2 % 6.9% 8.7% 9.1% 7.9% 8.2% Return on average risk weighted assets RoRWA 0.1 % 1.0% 1.1% 1.3% 1.1% 1.1% Profit before tax 246m 5,879m 6,065m 7,048m 5,590m 5,707m Cost: income ratio 85% 64% 64% 64% 67% 64% Loan loss rate 75bps 77bps 118bps Dividend per share 6.5p 6.0p 5.5p Total income 24,691m 32,292m 31,440m 29,043m 28,512m 31,049m Income Income by geography: UK 31% 49% 40% 41% 43% 39% growth Europe 15% 13% 15% 13% 15% 16% Americas 32% 19% 25% 26% 21% 25% Africa and Middle East 18% 15% 16% 16% 17% 16% Asia 4% 4% 4% 4% 4% 4% Gross new lending to UK households and businesses 44.0bn 45.0bn 43.5bn Citizenship Global investment in our communities 64.5m 63.5m 55.3m Colleagues involved in volunteering, regular giving and fundraising initiatives 68,000 70,000 59,000 Group Employee Opinion Survey EOS Proud to be Barclays 78% 81% 83% Percentage of senior managers who are female 22% 21% 24% 02 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport About Barclays Our businesses Barclays is a major global financial services provider engaged in personal banking, credit cards, corporate and investment banking, and wealth and investment management with an extensive international presence in Europe, the Americas, Africa and Asia.
With over 300 years of history and expertise in banking, Barclays operates in over 50 countries and employs approximately 140,000 people.
Barclays moves, lends, invests and protects money for customers and clients worldwide.
Barclays banking and financial service businesses work together to provide customers and clients the best offerings across our chosen markets.
Total income by business segment UK Retail and Business Banking Europe Retail and Business Banking UKRBB Europe RBB 1 7 4,421m 915m 6 2 A leading UK high street bank providing retail A local presence for Barclays customers in Spain, banking services and general insurance to Italy, Portugal and France, providing retail 3 individuals and business banking services banking services to mass-affluent individuals to small and medium enterprises SMEs and business banking services to SMEs Africa Retail and Business Banking Barclaycard Africa RBB 4 4,170m 3,157m A leading international payments business, 5 A leading pan-African retail and business offering payments and lending to individuals, bank serving customers and clients in 12 and a range of business services including countries with a range of banking card issuing and payment acceptance services and bancassurance solutions 1.
UK Retail and Business Banking Investment Bank Corporate Banking 2.
Europe Retail and Business Banking 3.
Africa Retail and Business Banking 4.
Corporate Banking A global investment bank serving large A leading provider of integrated cash 7.
Wealth and Investment Management corporate clients, financial institutions, management, financing and risk management governments and institutional investors with solutions to large corporate clients in the UK and For more detailed information financial advisory, capital-raising, financing South Africa, and multinationals and financial please refer to page 16-23 and risk management services institutions globally Wealth and Investment Management 1,815m A premier global wealth manager and advisor, providing private and intermediary clients with international and private banking, investment management, fiduciary services and brokerage barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 03 Chairmans statement Cultivating the right culture, running Barclays the right way, and responding to regulation.
Changing Barclays culture is a critical component in rebuilding trust and real change is required.
Sir David Walker Chairman Barclays experienced an extremely difficult 2012.
In the wake of My priority as Chairman is to work with the Board, Antony Jenkins, the announcement of the penalties relating to the industry-wide management and employees to ensure that we win back trust and investigation into the setting of interbank offered rates, Marcus ensure that we have in place a sustainable business model that will Agius chose to resign as Chairman and Bob Diamond subsequently create long term shareholder value.
The Board moved swiftly to fill both positions.
My appointment as I have three Chairman was announced in early August and the appointment of Antony Jenkins as CEO was made at the end of that month.
particular areas The right of focus: The announcement of the penalties in respect of LIBOR and EURIBOR culture rates was in addition to the provisions made in respect of the misselling of PPI to consumers and interest rate hedging products to business customers, both of which were increased at the end of the year.
Stakeholders trust in Barclays and the banking sector generally has been severely damaged by these events.
We recognise that we must rebuild that trust and are determined to win it back through Running Barclays Responding demonstrating real and fundamental change in our culture, especially the right way to regulation the way we operate.
We must demonstrate that going forward we are truly serving all our stakeholders, particularly our customers and clients, the communities in which we operate and society as a whole.
04 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Your Chairmans view The Chairmans primary role is to provide leadership to the Board, creating the conditions for overall Board effectiveness and ensuring that Barclays satisfies its legal and regulatory responsibilities.
Here, Sir David Walker who became Chairman in 2012 takes the opportunity to provide his views on the performance of Barclays, the Board, and his priorities for the future.
income and pre-compensation profits earned by the Group.
Significant The right culture progress was made in 2012 incentive awards reduced by 16% overall and 20% in the Investment Bank, despite a material increase in adjusted Changing Barclays culture is a critical component in rebuilding trust profit before tax.
We are determined to continue making progress in and real change is required.
The Board and management have an improving critical compensation ratios such as compensation to net essential role to play in promoting a culture that embeds appropriate operating income to the benefit of our shareholders.
and consistent values throughout the whole of the organisation, irrespective of location or seniority.
We have already started work The Barclays Board responded swiftly following the resignations of on changing the culture with the launch in January of Barclays new Marcus Agius and Bob Diamond as Chairman and CEO respectively Purpose and Values.
We have defined our Purpose as Helping people in order to ensure stability was restored as quickly as possible, with achieve their ambitions in the right way.
This is underpinned by Marcus Agius agreeing to act as full-time Chairman until a new five core values: Respect, Integrity, Service, Excellence and Chairman and CEO had been appointed.
It has also worked diligently to Stewardship.
Antony Jenkins provides more detail on this work and ensure Barclays survived during one of the most serious financial crises the overall Transform Programme designed to position Barclays as the world has faced.
The Board and management deserve credit for the Go-To bank in his CEOs Review.
Embedding the new Purpose Barclays profitable track record during this period.
and Values will take time but we are already changing the way we pay people to help accelerate that journey.
Remuneration structures Criticism has, however, been levied at both the Board and senior are being amended to ensure they take into account how results are management for their role in the events which resulted in the delivered as well as the actual delivery of those results.
We have resignations last July.
With the benefit of hindsight, there was a failure already removed all sales commission for branch-based staff with to recognise sufficiently that the environment in which banks operate performance now being measured against customer service metrics.
A key lesson from the events of last summer is to underline the need for the Board to step back periodically from the detail and to take stock of the changing external strategic and Running Barclays the right way operating environment.
The Board will be assisted in this by the Changes will be made to the way Barclays is governed in order to addition of two new Directors who have recently been appointed: Tim reflect the new environment in which we are operating and reinforce Breedon, the former Chief Executive of Legal & General Group plc, and the cultural change that we are putting in place.
We were one of the Diane fide Saint Victor, the General Counsel of ABB Limited.
Tim brings first banks to create a Board Risk Committee and this served Barclays to the Board deep financial services experience and a shareholder well during the financial crisis.
It has primarily focused on financial perspective, while Diane brings specific experience of legal and risks, such as credit, market, capital and funding risk.
However, we compliance issues in a global business and in helping to embed now need to ensure an equal focus on conduct and reputation risk.
Further Board appointments will be made during We have accordingly created a new Board Committee to scrutinise 2013.
Marcus Agius and Alison Carnwath both left the Board last year.
these areas of risk, including operational risk.
The creation of such I want to thank Marcus for his dedicated contribution as Barclays a committee will ensure that the existing Board Risk Committee can Chairman through an extraordinarily difficult 5-year period for the focus its attention on financial risk, while the new Board Conduct, banking sector between 2007-2012 and, in particular, for the Reputation and Operational Risk Committee can focus on ensuring effectiveness and dignity of his leadership in the demanding phase of that our business practices and culture appropriately reflect the transition after Bob Diamond stepped down and before I became needs of all of our stakeholders, especially our customers, in addition Chairman later in the year.
I want also to thank Bob Diamond for the to focusing on other areas of non-financial risk.
very significant positive contribution that he made during his 16 years with Barclays.
Sir Andrew Likierman will be retiring from the Board at Remuneration has been a key governance concern for many of our the AGM having served nine years as a Director.
I would like to thank stakeholders.
There is no doubt that pay in some parts of the industry Andrew for his contribution to the Board over this period, particularly became excessive in the years leading up to the financial crisis.
We are as a member of the Board Audit and Risk Committees.
I would also determined to ensure that shareholders receive an increased share of the like to thank Alison Carnwath for her contribution to the Board.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 05 Chairmans statement continued We must also not forget the many good things that Barclays does, including: Responding to regulation We provided 44bn in gross new lending to UK There is now emerging more clarity on the future shape of the 44bn households and businesses in 2012 regulatory environment, although the precise details still need to be resolved.
It is, however, clear that intensive and intrusive regulation is We supported the creation of 112,000 new here to stay, together with higher levels and quality of capital and 112,000 businesses in the UK liquidity.
It is also clear that there will be significant structural reform in the shape of a ring-fenced bank in the UK and other reforms in the We welcomed over 500 apprentices in January US, including the prospective need to create an intermediate US 500 2013 and are on track to meet our commitment holding company with its own capital and liquidity to hold Barclays to recruit 1,000 apprentices by the middle US subsidiaries.
We will respond positively to these developments and of this year are already beginning the process of establishing a ring-fenced bank here in the UK.
We aim to continue to lead the sector in ensuring that we can eliminate the too big to fail problem through our work on We invested a total of 64.5m in community 64.5m recovery and resolution planning.
programmes globally in 2012, with 68,000 Barclays employees providing their time, skills The new regulatory environment will require changes to both and money to charitable causes business models and cost structures.
The Transform Programme and Strategic Review that Antony Jenkins sets out in his CEOs Review is We continue to innovate for the benefit of our 750,000 designed to address precisely these issues.
However, care does need customers and clients: for example through to be taken to ensure that regulation does not go too far.
A healthy PayTag we have enabled over 750,000 mobile banking sector earning returns above the cost of equity is essential to phones to make contactless payments across economic growth.
It is important to ensure that the rightly increased three countries, and through Pingit, the first focus by the regulator on conduct supervision does not inadvertently mobile payment application in Europe, we have result in the withdrawal of services and the restriction of choice.
won numerous industry awards We are a major taxpayer, with our total tax 3.2bn contribution amounting to 3.2bn in 2012, in addition to taxes paid on behalf of employees, customers and clients Conclusion I feel immensely privileged to be Chairman of this great organisation at such an important point in its history.
Barclays has a proud and successful history.
Its reputation has, however, been badly damaged by recent events and it is crucial to restore trust in the eyes of stakeholders.
I am pleased to say that work is well underway under the leadership of Antony Jenkins to do just that.
I have been impressed since joining Barclays by the quality of its people and of its businesses.
I would like particularly to thank our 140,000 employees worldwide who have shown commitment and loyalty to both Barclays and our customers and clients.
It is because of them that I am confident in Barclays future.
Sir David Walker Chairman 06 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Tough questions, honest answers B ankers are overpaid and dont have societys interests at heart.
Part of the change that is happening at Barclays is to consider the broader societal impacts of what we do.
Barclays has always sought to link pay to performance in a commercially sensible way.
For the first time we will be overtly linking pay to performance based on delivering a set of values that reinforce our promise to the stakeholders we serve.
See page 13 for further details on our balanced scorecard.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 07 Group Chief Executives review Barclays will only be a valuable business if it is a values-driven business.
We must operate to the highest standards if our stakeholders are to trust us and bring their business to Barclays.
I started as Barclays Chief Executive at a turning point in our 323 year history.
Antony Jenkins Group Chief Executive 2012 was unquestionably a difficult year for Barclays and the Becoming the Go-To bank banking industry.
Serious mistakes were made and trust badly I have defined Barclays goal as becoming the Go-To bank.
But while I am determined simply, this means that in future Barclays will be the instinctive partner that we will not repeat the mistakes of the past, I also recognise that of choice for anyone looking to do banking business, whether a small Barclays remains a great business and we need to reshape it to meet business, first-time house buyer or a large corporate undertaking a the needs of all stakeholders colleagues, customers, clients, complex merger or acquisition deal.
I want Barclays to be recognised broader society and, of course, our shareholders.
not just for our performance, but for the values we embody in everything we do.
If we can achieve this then we will become both the rational and emotional bank of choice for people regardless of the transaction they are looking to make.
Transform overview This goal is ambitious.
The changes we are making are fundamental Stabilise the Improve business Become the and the plans we have announced comprehensive.
But without them, organisation, returns, define Go-To bank, Barclays will not prosper in what is an ever-changing environment.
provide context and execute plan for our stakeholders for the change to to deliver RoE customers and Transforming Barclays come, maintain above CoE clients, colleagues, Our Transform Programme has three components.
Turnaround, short term investors and Return Acceptable Numbers and Sustain Forward Momentum.
momentum wider society Turnaround was the immediate task of stabilising the business and 0-9 months maintaining momentum after the settlement in relation to LIBOR Turnaround and EURIBOR in the summer and its subsequent impact on Barclays reputation.
I was determined that this would mean listening to all of 0-3 years our stakeholders.
We have proactively looked to rebuild relationships Return Acceptable Numbers with our regulators through frequent, transparent dialogue.
We have engaged with politicians, the media, our customers and clients, and 0-5 years I have personally met dozens of investors and analysts.
And of course, Sustain FORward Momentum we have consulted thousands of our colleagues.
Each of these groups had one clear request for Barclays to become For more information on our Transform Programme a better bank.
This is what we are striving to achieve and I thank please see pages 10-13 everyone who engaged with us.
08 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Your Chief Executives view The role of the Group Chief Executive includes implementing the Groups strategy as agreed by the Board.
Here Antony provides his view on the events of 2012, and the ambition for Barclays for the future, along with the strategy to get us there.
Of course, at the same time, it was essential that we delivered our These values are not window dressing, nor are they part of an elaborate PR campaign.
They are the foundations of our future and will define the financial objectives and I believe that the results for 2012 show that we did not lose momentum during a very difficult year.
work we will and will not do, and therefore the value we will create.
For the past 30 years, banking has been progressively too aggressive, too focused on the short term, too disconnected from the needs of Aside from delivering an adjusted profit before tax of over 7bn, up our customers and clients, and wider society and we lost our way.
26% year on year, adjusted total income increased 2% to 29bn and This cannot be allowed to happen again.
impairments improved by 5% resulting in net income growth of 3% to 25.4bn.
Charges of 1.6bn and 850m were incurred for PPI and Our values will be the bedrock of our future success and the blueprint interest rate hedging products redress respectively.
Our capital, liquidity and funding also remained strong with a Core Tier 1 ratio of 10.9% and to define how we work together from now on.
Our balanced scorecard page 13 will create a holistic assessment of our performance for total capital ratio of 17.1%.
This scorecard will underpin the performance assessment for our 125 most senior leaders this year and for all Our four largest businesses all increased returns on the previous year.
colleagues by the middle of 2014 and we will be transparent about There were strong performances from UK Retail and Business Banking the progress we are making against this scorecard.
and Barclaycard which reported returns of 16.0% and 22.1% respectively.
The Investment Bank delivered returns of 13.7% and Corporate Banking continued its turnaround with returns of 5.5%, This journey will not be easy.
In 2013, overall returns will decrease as we up from 1.7% in 2011. take the action required to reshape our portfolio of businesses.
We also see four key risks to achieving our plans a major macroeconomic downturn, a significant unexpected change in regulation, legacy issues We have a long way to go to become the Go-To bank and the second element of Transform, Return Acceptable Numbers, outlines our plans and failure to execute the plan.
to build on these strong foundations to deliver a Group return on equity above the Groups cost of equity during the course of 2015 and beyond.
We have been deliberately conservative in our planning to mitigate against a major downturn in the global economy, in addition to any significant and unexpected change in regulation.
While a number of regulatory The economic outlook for the foreseeable future is subdued.
This means we have to prioritise our investment and our focus rather than reforms have not yet been finalised, we believe that the direction of travel on the principal reforms is clear and our plans anticipate this new look to grow every business.
More than ever, we need to focus on costs.
This will be the strategic battleground for the financial services industry landscape as much as possible.
Should the final shape of regulation differ from what we expect, Barclays track record demonstrates a clear ability in the future and we must do things differently if we are to thrive.
to adapt while still delivering against our commitments.
Over the last few months, we have undertaken a comprehensive, With regard to legacy issues, we have a number of on-going areas of end-to-end review of our operations, unprecedented in scope and detail.
We have closely examined the external environment now litigation and regulatory review and we have robust processes in place to address them.
The execution of our plans is absolutely within our and in the future looking at the economic context, the needs of our customers and clients, regulatory and stakeholder expectations, control.
And we are aware of the importance of being able to track and assess our progress which is why we have made a and the competitive landscape.
series of financial and non-financial commitments with clear timescales.
See page 12 for more information.
As you will read in this report, we are reshaping Barclays.
We have made tough commercial decisions about those businesses not consistent with our financial targets or reputational criteria.
But as a result we will build Ultimately, we recognise that it will be for others to judge whether or not we have succeeded in our objectives.
But we have a credible plan, a universal bank that generates a return on equity sustainably in excess of the cost of equity in the course of 2015, while meeting our a strong team and my commitment is absolute we will do everything in our power to achieve our objective of becoming the Go-To bank.
responsibilities to all our stakeholders.
The final part of Transform, Sustain Forward Momentum, defines how we will reach Go-To by creating and sustaining a culture that delivers the right outcomes in the right way.
Antony Jenkins Group Chief Executive Purpose and Values The notion that there must always be a choice between profits and a values-driven business is false.
Barclays will only be a valuable business if it is a values-driven business.
And we will become a valuable and sustainable institution for all our stakeholders by aligning behind a common purpose: Helping people achieve their ambitions in the right way and adhering to our new core values: Respect, Integrity, Service, Excellence and Stewardship.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 09 What we want to be Becoming the Go-To bank for our customers and clients will require us to develop deeper relationships more efficiently and in the right way.
Our goal Our purpose Becoming the Go-To bank Helping people achieve their ambitions in the right way Our goal is to build not only a sustainable, trusted business, but a business which customers and clients consider as the Becoming the Go-To bank will be realised with a renewed first choice for answers and solutions their Go-To bank.
focus, fuelled by this common purpose.
Customers and clients will benefit from our focus on doing We exist for our clients and customers, for our shareholders, business in the right way, putting them firmly in the centre our colleagues, and other stakeholders we exist for the purpose of all that we do.
of helping people achieve their ambitions.
In coming years, we will re-establish Barclays as a benchmark Helping people in the right way means how we do it becomes brand which our colleagues will value throughout their careers.
as important as what we do.
For Barclays and our shareholders, Go-To means a more efficient way of doing business and developing deeper relationships that sustainably improve return on shareholder investment.
Barclays in action how we live our values today Creating a values-driven culture Enhancing customer experience Supporting society We commissioned Anthony Salz to conduct Barclays Pingit was awarded the accolade of Our Corporate Banking business in the UK 2012 Disruptive Service of the Year by Apple.
developed Cash-back for Business, which is an independent Group-wide review of the banks current practices.
We intend to This positive recognition by the technology a new initiative as part of the governments world is for an innovation that has the Funding for Lending and provides additional implement the findings of this review as we transform the organisation.
potential to create a new market or business funding upfront equal to 2% of the loan.
The App allows customers to send and receive money anytime, anywhere.
10 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Our goal, purpose and values Our goal and purpose represent a focal point for all colleagues that will guide our efforts and approach.
Barclays values, newly revised in this report, focus our approach to doing business how we will work and serve in the right way.
Our values The new values we will live by are: Respect means respecting and valuing those we work with Being the Go-To bank sets a new our colleagues and other stakeholders.
It is about building trust and promoting collaboration.
bar for what we do for customers Integrity demands we act fairly, ethically and honestly.
and clients, how we do it and how This requires us to have the courage always to do the right thing, never tolerating the wrong thing, and to be accountable we are perceived in the market.
We have created values that will embody our new goal and Service means ensuring our clients and customers are always purpose.
Barclays will be differentiated from peers by bringing uppermost in our minds.
We must strive to exceed their these values to life every day in the way we behave.
expectations so we automatically become their Go-To bank.
Excellence calls on us to use all our energy, skills and resources Transparency must be at the heart of all we do from financial to deliver great service for our customers and clients and disclosure to customer service.
outstanding sustainable results for shareholders.
Stewardship is about being determined to leave things better than we found them, so we constantly strive to improve the way we operate as an organisation and the impact we have on society.
Improving our business controls Creating opportunities for our colleagues Helping with disaster relief In December 2012, we created a new role Our new consolidated Africa operating Along with 200 Barclays volunteers, the of Head of Compliance and Government and model will provide increased opportunities Investment Bank committed $1.5m to Regulatory Relations, reporting directly to for colleague mobility through the creation Hurricane Sandy Disaster Relief programme.
To help build a more cohesive and of short term intra-Africa secondments that This initiative is particularly close to the effective function, all compliance colleagues will help colleagues to build international hearts of our US colleagues as much of and activity across Barclays now report to this experience and further their careers through the devastation occurred in their own or individual and thus operate independently of opportunities that may not be available in neighbouring communities.
any business and regional teams for their home countries.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 11 How we will get there Our journey to Go-To has begun, but transformational change takes time.
We will monitor and measure our progress in a balanced and relevant way.
Achieving our goal In a realistic timeline Stabilise the Improve business Become the Our Transform Programme is organisation, returns, define Go-To bank, the road map to achieving our provide context and execute plan for our stakeholders for the change to to deliver RoE customers and goal and purpose come, maintain above CoE clients, colleagues, short term investors and Transforming Barclays and the way we do business momentum wider society becoming the Go-To bank will be a long, challenging, but also exciting journey.
The outcome will be worth the effort.
0-9 months The quality and commitment of the people at Barclays, Turnaround combined with our underlying financial strength, means we start our transformation from a good position.
0-3 years Return Acceptable Numbers Barclays Strategic Review, commenced in Q4 2012, is part of a long term programme to transform the culture and 0-5 years Sustain FORward Momentum performance of Barclays over the next three to five years.
By focusing on what matters And delivering on our commitments Barclays Strategic Review concluded that we will: We are making a series of commitments against which progress can be tracked.
We will update against these commitments every six months: Focus solely on activities that support customers and clients in geographic markets and businesses where Barclays has scale and competitive advantage Non-financial commitments Provide greater disclosure and transparency around our financial Focus investment in the UK, US and Africa, while maintaining performance an appropriate presence across Europe and Asia to support our global investment banking franchise Embed our Purpose and Values across Barclays and publish an annual scorecard assessing our performance Restructure Barclays European retail operations to focus on the mass-affluent customer segment Financial commitments Reposition Barclays European and Asian Equities and the Target return on equity for the Group in excess of the Group Investment Banking Division businesses to reflect the market cost of equity in 2015, which we have assumed will remain at the opportunities and maintain a relevant proposition for our current 11.5% level clients In 2013, reduce headcount by at least 3,700 across the Group, Close the Structured Capital Markets business unit including 1,800 in the Corporate and Investment Bank and 1,900 in Europe Retail and Business Banking Manage Risk Weighted Assets RWAs more efficiently through a run-off of legacy assets in Europe and the Investment Bank Aim to reduce the Groups total cost base by 1.7bn to 16.8bn and invest in high-return businesses such as UK mortgages, in 2015, including interim cost estimates of 18.5bn and 17.5bn Barclaycard and Wealth and Investment Management in 2013 and 2014 respectively Reduce total costs significantly across the Group by operating Target RWAs of 440bn by the end of 2015 more efficiently Report a transitional Common Equity Tier 1 ratio in 2015 above its target of 10.5% From 2014, accelerate our progressive dividend policy, targeting a payout ratio of 30% over time 12 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Our path forward Our balanced scorecard outlines the performance categories and objectives that will guide the behaviours for all our colleagues.
We are currently working on the full set of precise scorecard measures.
The objectives below are illustrative of the type of objectives that may be selected.
Our balanced scorecard measuring the success of our strategy We understand the need to demonstrate tangible progress, not just A new performance assessment approach, based on a balanced talk about our good intentions.
We are serious about making sure scorecard, will be introduced for senior executives during 2013 and we live by these values, so they will play a significant role in how we for all colleagues from the middle of 2014.
This means all variable measure and reward individual and business performance.
remuneration will depend on delivering performance in the way that is consistent with our values.
We will continue to pay for performance and we will continue to pay competitively for the best talent.
However, in future, variable pay will Adding further weight to doing business in the right way, we will depend on performance against our values as well as other targets.
launch a new Code of Conduct for all staff following and including recommendations from the Salz Review.
Customers and Clients Delighting our customers and clients is fundamental to being their Objectives Go-To bank.
We want to be the provider of choice by ensuring that Greater level of customer and client satisfaction our customer service is top tier for the markets in which we operate.
More business from more customers and clients Colleagues Colleagues are the cornerstone of Barclays.
We strive to create a diverse Objectives and inclusive environment, where colleagues can fulfil their potential, Improved colleague engagement and satisfaction and Barclays is seen as the employer of choice.
Our colleagues need to Diversity across our workforce be fully engaged in order to serve effectively and to experience fulfilling careers.
Retention of high-performing colleagues Citizenship In striving to make Barclays the Go-To bank, we must consider the Objectives impacts of our day-to-day business decisions on our stakeholders and Improve external stakeholder perceptions wider society.
We will ensure our decisions take account of external Increase impact of community programmes stakeholder needs in the short and long term and positively impact the communities in which we operate.
Conduct We must be a values-driven business, becoming once again a trusted pillar Objectives and the Go-To bank because of our behaviour.
Success will be seen when our Effective control environment regulators view us as a model of constructive engagement.
Our products and Fewer customer complaints services will be designed and distributed to meet clients and customers needs consistent with our mutual risk appetite and will be priced appropriately.
Company As a financial institution, we understand the importance of strong Objectives commercial performance.
We are resilient as a firm as demonstrated Return on equity above the cost of equity by our 323 years in operation, but we will reinvigorate a focus on building to last, particularly in our financial strength.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 13 How we create value We will become the bank of choice for people regardless of the transaction they are looking to make.
How Barclays creates value How Barclays does business Barclays operates a universal banking model through which we seek to build strong and stable relationships with our customers and clients Our objective is to create and deliver by meeting a wide range of their needs across different locations.
These multi-dimensional strategies allow Barclays to offer a greater long term sustainable value for all our range of products and services and achieve both a smoother income stream and sustainable returns.
stakeholders in the right way.
Our Retail and Business Banking businesses operate in a regional We fulfil our purpose by delivering the fundamental functions model, focusing on delivering targeted solutions to individuals and of a bank to our customers and clients for which we receive small businesses.
Barclaycard, the Investment Bank, Corporate Banking interest income and or fees.
and Wealth and Investment Management leverage their offerings to provide comprehensive solutions across borders.
Our competitive advantage Barclays competitive advantage is created by the scale and Where possible, we have encouraged Group functions to take diversity of our businesses and the quality, character and advantage of synergies through the sharing of ideas and collaboration relationships of our people.
Scale and diversity allow us to build sustainable businesses by delivering operational excellence, investing in innovation, managing our risks and allocating scarce resources, including How our businesses create value capital, efficiently across our portfolio of businesses.
Our people allow us to cultivate deeper relationships with our customers and clients by bringing the best of Barclays to each.
Primary Business income type source Description As we refresh our goal, purpose and values and rebalance our objectives across multiple stakeholders, we believe we can become Retail and Interest We accept customer deposits in the bank of choice for people regardless of the transaction they Business and fee exchange for interest payment.
We lend are looking to make.
Banking income these funds, for an interest charge, to individuals and businesses looking to grow and make meaningful contributions to the economy.
Barclaycard Interest We facilitate and simplify the flow of UK Retail income and funds between customers and businesses and Business transaction for a small percentage of the transaction Banking Africa Europe fees and, in the case of credit cards, we earn Retail and Retail and interest income on credit balances.
Business Business Investment Trading We provide clients with financial and Banking Banking Bank income transaction advice, assistance with and fee capital raising, trade execution and risk The income management for which we earn trading Go-To and fee income.
Wealth and Investment Barclaycard bank Corporate Interest We provide clients with banking, cash Management Banking and fee management and financing services, income in exchange for interest and fees, to facilitate growing businesses ability to conduct business domestically Corporate Investment and internationally.
Banking Bank Interest We help affluent customers grow and Wealth and Investment and fee protect their wealth through advisory income and investment services, for which we Management earn a fee, and private and international banking, on which we earn interest.
14 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Tough questions, honest answers As a shareholder, returns and performance have been disappointing.
In times of economic uncertainty, performance is difficult for all.
But we believe our fundamentals are strong and we are well positioned to achieve long term value.
We are aiming to improve the quality and predictability of earnings allowing us to deliver sustainable returns in excess of our cost of equity.
com Transform for further details on the Transform Programme and Returning Acceptable Numbers.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 15 Business review UK Retail and Business Banking UKRBB Contribution to total income We aim to become the Go-To bank in the UK by making our customers 4,421m lives much easier.
UKRBB is our UK-based high street retail bank network and brand presence for the Group.
UKRBB provides customer referrals for Our 2012 performance Barclaycard, Wealth and Investment Management and Corporate Banking: and retail banking platforms and infrastructure.
2012 2011 2010 Income m 4,421 4,656 4,518 UKRBB has over 15 million personal customers, one million of whom Adjusted profit before tax 1,472 1,420 889 are classified as mass-affluent and serves over 750,000 businesses.
Adjusted ROE % 16.0 14.9 9.9 Our strategy is to develop and deliver simple and transparent products, run on scalable infrastructure and we invest heavily to try to enhance Loan loss rate bps 21 44 70 our customers experiences.
Loans and advances to customers bn 128.2 121.2 115.6 In October, Barclays agreed to acquire the deposits, mortgages and Distribution points 1,593 1,625 1,658 business assets of ING Direct UK.
It is a good fit with our existing business and will be integrated into UKRBB.
Completion is expected In 2012 UKRBB generated 4.4bn of income and an adjusted return in March 2013, subject to approval.
on equity of 16%, whilst prudently controlling credit and operational risk.
Our customers We have put the customer in control by developing services and Income reductions principally due to non-recurrence of gains from propositions that they can personalise to suit their needs.
Our new the disposal of hedging instruments in 2011 were more than offset current account proposition, Features Store, allows customers to tailor by significant reductions in credit impairment charges.
Loans and their banking relationship across a range of free and paid for features, advances to UK customers and clients grew by 7bn, including an whilst over 400,000 customers have taken advantage of the ability to estimated 4.4bn under the FLS where we have committed to pass personalise their debit card.
all associated funding cost benefits to customers.
A 1.2bn charge for the cost of PPI redress was incurred.
Barclays Mobile Banking app, Pingit and Text Alerts were launched with the aim of making customers lives much easier.
These services For more detailed financial information help people to do their everyday banking, track payments and to send please see the Financial review section and receive money at any time, wherever they are.
com annualreport to a customer service based incentive scheme for our frontline staff, to ensure that our customers remain at the heart of our business.
Our colleague, conduct and citizenship initiatives The large majority of our UKRBB colleagues remain involved and positive about their work, with 94% saying they are very committed.
We have continued to enhance our colleague offering as we strive to be their employer of choice.
Our priorities for 2013 In 2012 we continued to find ways to positively impact the communities in which we operate.
Barclays Money Skills helped one Provide a differentiated experience to customers by launching million people to manage their money more effectively and Barclays new digital assets to make their lives much easier.
Continue to Apprentice Programme was launched to help tackle the problem of drive the adoption of initiatives launched in 2012. youth unemployment in the UK.
Focus on cost management, building on the work carried out in 2012 to achieve a cost to income ratio in the mid-50s by 2015.
For small businesses, we provided support and advice through seminars and workshops across the UK: and we are fully supportive of Complete the acquisition and integration of ING Direct UK.
Government schemes designed to boost lending to UK SMEs.
We are Continue investing in our colleagues and focussing on embedding proud to have been number one in the market place for both Funding a Group values to do business in the right way.
for Lending Scheme FLS and National Loan Guarantee Scheme NLGS.
Note a Cumulative net stock lending for Q3 2012 as per Bank of England publication in December 2012: http www.
co. uk markets Pages FLS data.
aspx 16 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Business review Europe Retail and Business Banking Europe RBB Contribution to total income We focus on meeting the banking and investment needs of mass-affluent 915m and business customers in Spain, Portugal, Italy and France.
Europe RBB offers a full range of banking, investment and insurance products tailored to meet our customers financial needs.
We provide Our 2012 performance services to over 1.5 million retail customers and businesses in Europe.
2012 2011 2010 Within our customer base, we focus on the mass-affluent segment and Income m 915 1,226 1,164 offer a differentiated proposition.
Our business leverages the expertise Adjusted loss before tax 239 234 168 of Barclays other Retail and Business Banking franchises to benefit our Adjusted ROE % 8.0 6.0 1.0 client base as well as to exploit synergies across our non-retail Loan loss rate bps 80 54 71 European businesses.
Loans and advances Our customers to customers bn 40.0 43.6 43.4 In 2012, we took advantage of the expertise of our other Retail and Distribution points 1,142 1,228 1,363 Business Banking franchises to better serve customers and made good Cost: income ratio % 92 99 89 progress against our long term vision of making our customers lives much easier.
For instance, we simplified some of our most manual Within a macroeconomic, sovereign and regulatory environment customer processes and launched mobile banking to allow customers that continued to be challenging, income fell 25% due to the in Spain, Italy and France to access their accounts on the move.
non-recurrence of gains from disposal of hedging instruments in 2011 and the run-off of loans, driven by active management.
We also introduced a system into our French network that allows staff to quickly determine a customers investment profile and monitor This was offset by strategic action to reposition the business their portfolios in real time.
This system saves time, improves customer we reduced operating expenses by 31%, 18% when adjusted for service and enhances our oversight over advisory services.
the non-recurrence of 2011 restructuring charges.
Our colleague, conduct and citizenship initiatives To enhance future performance, we also combined our businesses We maintained and enhanced our strong control environment by in Spain and Portugal to promote best practices, take advantage of improving systems and processes, for instance in Iberia where we synergies and align strategies.
Europe RBB also increased deposit introduced a citizenship dimension into our new product approval taking and focused asset growth in the mass-affluent segment.
process to ensure products are not only compliant but also socially responsible given our broader commitments.
For more detailed financial information please see the Financial review section We also continued our commitment to local communities, with at www.
com annualreport around 2,000 Europe RBB colleagues contributing to our Make a Difference Day campaign, taking time out to share their knowledge and skills and helping support their local communities in what have been austere times.
Our priorities for 2013 Create a smaller but sustainable business by focusing on mass-affluent customers, reducing headcount, downsizing branch operations and refocusing on digital solutions for clients.
Introduce dedicated management to optimise the performance and accelerate the run-off of our less attractive legacy portfolios.
Reduce Europe RBBs cost base through greater sharing of infrastructure with Barclays other European businesses to better serve customers.
Continue to employ technology to streamline processes.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 17 Business review Africa Contribution to total income We combine global product knowledge with regional expertise and our extensive 3,157m and well-established local presence in Africa.
One Africa strategy Barclays in Africa comprises a local Retail and Business Bank, along Our 2012 performance with a local presence for Barclays global businesses Barclaycard, Corporate Banking, Investment Bank and Wealth and Investment 2012 2011 2010 Management.
Africa provides the Group with emerging market Income m 3,157 3,571 3,512 exposure and a promise of growth.
Together, we serve over 14.3 million Adjusted profit before tax 468 830 649 customers and clients across 12 countries.
Adjusted ROE % 3.8 9.7 8.7 In 2012, we consolidated our Barclays Africa and Absa banking Loan loss rate bps 194 129 125 operations into a single management structure.
In 2013, subject to Loans and advances the receipt of regulatory approvals, the majority of Barclays Africa to customers bn 31.7 34.4 43.1 businesses and Absa will be brought under one legal entity to create Distribution points 1,451 1,493 1,543 a leading pan-African financial services business.
Africa RBB generated income of 3.2bn in 2012, however, profit Our One Africa strategy focuses on broadening services in leading and returns both decreased.
This was primarily due to currency markets and investing in new geographies.
fluctuations and increased impairment charges relating to the South African home loans recovery book and the impact of one large Our customers and clients name in the commercial property portfolio.
In local currency, loans As part of our goal to make customers and clients lives much easier, and advances to customers remained broadly stable, while we continued to drive innovation, for example, by rolling out several customer deposits increased by 7%.
new online banking services to customers across Africa.
For more detailed financial information We deployed our global, regional and local capabilities to the benefit please see the Financial review section of our corporate clients in landmark deals, such as the partnership of at www.
com annualreport Kenya Airways and Barclays Bank of Kenya with Visa to relaunch an airline co-branded credit card.
Other major deals included the inaugural $0.5bn Zambia Sovereign benchmark issuance, that was 20 times oversubscribed: and project financing of $1.5bn for ExxonMobil NNPC to develop 27 oil wells in Nigeria.
Life insurance products have been launched in Botswana, Mozambique, Zambia and Ghana via our bancassurance model, through the Barclays branch network.
Two new Islamic banking products have been launched in Kenya by leveraging Group capabilities and synergies.
Our colleague, conduct and citizenship initiatives As part of our citizenship strategy, we adhere to laws, regulations and Our priorities for 2013 codes, ensuring that we make responsible decisions in how we manage the business and sustain ourselves into the future.
Drive sustainable growth by completing the Retail and Business Banking transformation: whilst restoring income growth: grow We continued to participate in a range of community initiatives such corporate and investment banking in Africa: deepen and expand as the Nelson Mandela Day in South Africa and Make a Difference Day in core markets in line with One Africa strategy.
campaign across Africa, where 7,211 volunteers were involved.
In 2012, Build out the platform by embedding the integrated target 11,705 colleagues volunteered to the benefit of communities across the operating model to support scale, growth and efficiency, drive continent.
Africa Retail and Business Banking Africa RBB Have the customer and client at the core, by optimising core Barclays Group reports Africa RBB separately and the following customer processes and customer and client segmentation: information relates specifically to the Retail and Business Bank.
realign businesses to a customer client centric approach.
Our global businesses participating in Africa are integrated within Drive people centricity, by aiming to attract, retain, stretch, and each business report.
develop top talent and reward competitively: promote a conductive environment for engaged, motivated and empowered colleagues.
Focus on control and compliance by continuing to embed a risk awareness culture that balances commerciality and control.
18 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Business review Barclaycard Contribution to total income We are a leading international payments business that serves both consumers and 4,170m business clients.
Barclaycard, the eighth largest payment business in the world, provides the Group with exposure to the fast growing global payments industry Our 2012 performance and is an important source of new relationships to Barclays for both individual and business customers.
2012 2011 2010 Income m 4,170 4,095 4,024 Barclaycard serves 29 million retail and business customers across the Adjusted profit before tax 1,506 1,208 791 world, including the United Kingdom, United States, Germany, South Adjusted ROE % 22.1 17.4 12.5 Africa through Absa Card and Norway, Sweden and Denmark through Loan loss rate bps 282 391 570 the EnterCard joint venture.
Loans and advances Barclaycard is investing in core consumer cards issuing to gain share to customers bn 32.9 30.1 26.6 in all markets, rebalancing towards high-return business payments Customers m 28.8 22.6 21.7 and continuing to lead in payment innovation to meet evolving customer needs.
Despite adverse economic conditions, Barclaycard maintained its track record of delivering strong financial performance with income Barclaycard received numerous awards in 2012, including the up 2%, a 22% reduction in credit impairment charges and adjusted Moneyfacts: Best Card Provider 2012 award in the UK and Forrester return on equity rising to 22%.
A 420m charge for the cost of PPI Voice of the Customer award in the US.
Our customers Barclaycard continues to grow the UK and international businesses, Barclaycard has a heritage of innovation, starting from the launch with strong organic growth and acquisitions, including Edcon, in of the first credit card in the UK in 1966.
This resulted in a 27% increase in customers and a 10% launched several new products to meet evolving customer needs, increase in payments processed to 240bn.
including Freedom and Cashback consumer cards in the UK, Google Adwords for UK SMEs, Barclaycard Plus for online consumer spending For more detailed financial information in Germany and the worlds first social media credit card, Barclaycard please see the Financial review section Ring in the US.
com annualreport Digital payments are a major part of our innovation and in 2012 we enabled over 750,000 mobile phones to make payments using PayTag across three countries and helped increase contactless transactions by over 250% year on year in the UK.
Our colleague, conduct and citizenship initiatives Barclaycard continues to review policies and practices to identify and address those that are not simple, transparent and market-leading.
Our priorities for 2013 In 2012, we provided 2.8bn of net new lending, retained first place in Brand Consideration amongst UK consumer cards and supported over Deliver leading and innovative products to our retail customers 35% of our colleagues to engage in fundraising and 65% of colleagues and business clients that help them achieve their ambitions to participate in volunteering.
Expand payment acceptance and commercial payments in Europe and consolidate to a single card platform for continental Europe.
Attract, develop and retain colleagues of the highest calibre and integrity.
Continue to have a positive impact in local communities by creating sustainable relationships and using the skills of the business and colleagues to support our local communities.
Focus on the way we do business to ensure that our products and services are industry leading in transparency.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 19 Business review Investment Bank Contribution to total income We provide advice, financing and risk management solutions to companies, 11,722m governments and institutions around the world.
Barclays integrated universal banking model, with a presence in 50 Our clients Our clients include multi-national corporates, sovereign governments countries, allows us to meet the needs of our clients by connecting capabilities from across the Group.
The Investment Bank aims to be and supranational bodies and financial institutions, including banks, pension funds and insurance firms.
the Go-To bank for corporate and institutional clients, providing them with the products and services they need to invest, grow and manage risk.
We help corporate clients to achieve growth and job creation in the real economy, governments to deliver their stability and growth plans, and Through our client-focused flow business we provide diversity of institutions to meet the long term investment needs of their clients.
income and risk to the Group and are able to deliver market execution services for retail, wealth and corporate customers.
In 2012, we were once again recognised for the strength of our client focus and were awarded Best US Investment Bank and Best UK Investment Bank by Euromoney.
Our business model Investment Banking Division Our Investment Banking Division provides a full suite of banking Our colleague, conduct and citizenship initiatives services to corporations, governments and institutions worldwide.
In response to the events of the summer and the wider change in the industry we undertook a detailed review of our business practices across three broad areas: business line, business conduct and Services include arranging and underwriting debt and equity issuance, providing advice on mergers and acquisitions, corporate finance and reward practices.
restructurings, making active markets for securities across global debt and equity exchanges and delivering strategic risk management The resulting recommendations included changes to our business solutions.
model in certain areas and enhancements to our controls and broader working practices.
These will be implemented through the Transform Markets Programme and will help ensure the Investment Bank is able to continue to meet the needs of all its stakeholders.
Our Markets team provides execution and risk management across the full range of asset classes including equity and fixed income, currency and commodity FICC products.
Training the next generation of leaders The Investment Bank has continued to develop and improve its annual We facilitate client transactions on stock, options and futures internship programme which runs for 10 weeks every summer, and exchanges globally and provide prime brokerage services, including sees over 900 students join the bank globally, embedded in teams clearing, financing and securities lending, to institutional clients.
We are active market-makers for securities across every asset class, helping to provide liquidity to the worlds financial markets.
In 2012, we were recognised for the strength of this programme by being voted the number one place to do an internship in the UK by We also provide access to derivative products allowing organisations ratemyplacement.
co. uk, based on thousands of student-written to hedge exposure to movements in interest rates, currencies and reviews submitted to the website.
Encouraging youth entrepreneurship A combined Markets team was established October 2012, integrating The Investment Bank has an ongoing partnership with Youth Business our FICC, Equities and Distribution divisions.
This new structure International YBI, an organisation which helps young people start will enable us to deliver more joined up solutions for our clients, and their own business, create jobs and develop communities in more than deliver greater synergies across product groups and trading and 35 countries around the world.
In 2012, we provided support, including training and on-going Research mentoring to help YBI support over 7,500 entrepreneurs, creating an Our global, multi asset Research team delivers actionable ideas and estimated 25,000 jobs globally.
innovative products to our clients, partnering with them to help ensure they make informed investment decisions.
Our expertise in debt, equity and economic research provides our clients with impartial, insightful advice on global and regional companies, markets and topics.
20 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Our 2012 performance Our strategy in action: Case Study 2012 2011 2010 Income m 11,722 10,335 13,209 Adjusted profit before tax m 4,063 2,965 4,389 Adjusted ROE % 13.7 10.4 13.5 Cost: net income ratio % 64 71 65 Compensation: income ratio % 39 47 43 In spite of a backdrop of challenging economic and market conditions, we have continued to maintain or gain share across all of our core businesses.
Profit before tax increased 37% to 4bn driven by strong income growth and reduced operating expenses, resulting in an adjusted ROE of 14%.
Total income increased 13% with strong performance within FICC and Equities and Prime Services.
This increase, combined with a reduction in operating costs, while at the same time absorbing the 193m settlement in relation to LIBOR and EURIBOR, reduced the cost to net When GDF SUEZ, one of the worlds largest listed utility income ratio to 64%: within the targeted range of 60% to 65%.
companies, proposed in March 2012 to make an offer for the remaining 30% stake in International Power, the UK listed We remain committed to evolving our business in line with changing international electricity generating company in which GDF SUEZ regulation and the developing needs of all our stakeholders.
already owned a 70% shareholding, Barclays was corporate broker to International Power and acted as joint financial adviser to For more detailed financial information International Power on the transaction.
please see the Financial review section The transaction followed on from a combination of International at www.
com annualreport Power and certain of GDF SUEZs assets which closed in February 2011 and resulted in GDF SUEZ owning 70% of the issued share capital of International Power.
The 2012 transaction valued the entire share capital of International Power at c23bn, delivered a c20% premium to International Power shareholders, in addition to the premium reflected in the 2011 transaction.
The transaction represented a major strategic step in GDF SUEZs Our priorities for 2013 development enabling it to take full control of a unique platform for development in fast growing countries.
The transaction will Continuing to provide leading execution and advisory services.
also enable GDF SUEZ to receive the full benefit of the synergies generated from the initial combination.
Creating innovative products and technologies to meet the evolving needs of our clients.
Adapting our business to meet new regulatory requirements.
Gaining or maintaining share in all core businesses.
Delivering sustainable reductions to our cost and capital base through efficiency improvements and RWA management.
Developing a best in class control environment.
Providing a meritocratic environment in which our best employees are able to thrive.
Making a positive difference to the communities with which we interact, through supporting business growth and providing assistance through volunteering and fundraising initiatives.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 21 Business review Corporate Banking Contribution to total income We work closely with clients to achieve their potential through cash 2,918m management, loans, trade finance and risk management services.
Corporate Banking is an integral part of Barclays universal banking offering.
We help over 40,000 corporations achieve their ambitions.
Our 2012 performance This includes multinational corporates and financial institutions globally, and domestic corporations in the UK and South Africa.
2012 2011 2010 Corporate Banking has stable revenues and is self-funded.
Income m 2,918 3,108 3,162 Adjusted profit loss Our clients before tax 551 204 314 We work closely with clients to fully understand their business and Adjusted ROE % 5.5 1.7 3.7 build long term, broad-based relationships.
As a result, in the UK a no other bank achieved a higher rating for overall client satisfaction.
Loan loss rate bps 128 156 219 Loans and advances We continue to strive for ever better client servicing, and in 2012 a to customers bn 80.5 84.1 82.5 Global Corporates team was established jointly between Corporate Customer deposits bn 97.1 85.2 79.0 Banking and the Investment Bank.
The objective is to strengthen existing client relationships and provide more corporate banking Performance is continuing in its positive trend, with a reduction solutions to the treasuries of our largest multinational clients.
in both costs and impairments, and substantial improvement to return on equity.
A 850m charge was incurred for interest rate In 2012 we launched the new Cash Management offering, Pingit for hedging product redress.
We are self-funded, and customer Corporates, providing clients with more efficient and convenient ways deposits are up 14%.
We also continued to invest in our client servicing model.
Underlying income is resilient despite increased funding charges and the challenging economic environment.
Non-core activities We continue to focus on products that are important to our clients, are being actively restructured and non-core assets reduced as and therefore invest in our Cash Management and Trade Finance we refocus our business.
Key initiatives are underway, and in 2012, we launched our cash management platform Barclays.
net, and invested in Trade Finance For more detailed financial information hubs in key locations.
We are also in the process of enhancing an please see the Financial review section integrated Corporate Banking offering with Absa across Africa.
com annualreport Our citizenship initiatives We are actively engaged with government initiatives to support the UK economy Corporate Banking clients benefited from Barclays being the first among UK banks to fully utilise our NLGS allocation, lending a total of 1.5bn through our innovative Cashback Finance Scheme offering.
This continues with Cashback for Business loans through the Funding for Lending Scheme.
We are also an important partner for local governments and other government institutions for loans and other Our priorities for 2013 financial services.
Become the Go-To bank for multinational corporations and financial institutions globally, and domestic corporations in the UK and South Africa, by supporting their financing and servicing needs.
Maintain market-leading rating of client satisfaction in the UK.
Continue to enhance our product capabilities in Cash Management and Trade Finance.
Continue to improve profitability, supported by increased cross-selling with the Investment Bank, Barclaycard and Wealth and Investment Management.
Reinforce client confidence and focus on good conduct across the business by improving controls and standards.
Note a Source: Charterhouse Research based on 2,076 interviews with companies turning over between 5m and 1bn carried out in Q4 2012.
22 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Business review Wealth and Investment Management Contribution to total income We provide holistic wealth management services to affluent and high-net-worth 1,815m clients globally.
Wealth and Investment Management W&IM provides a full range of wealth management services to affluent and high-net-worth clients Our 2012 performance globally, including banking, credit, investments and advisory services.
2012 2011 2010 We will be the Go-To wealth manager for clients by helping them to Income m 1,815 1,744 1,560 better understand, organise and invest their wealth.
Adjusted profit before tax 315 207 163 Adjusted ROE % 13.9 10.9 8.8 We believe the best way to support clients is to have deep knowledge Loans and advances of their full financial position.
Amongst other techniques, we use the to customers bn 21.2 18.8 16.1 principles of behavioural finance to tailor investment and structuring solutions for each client through use of our proprietary Financial Customer deposits bn 53.8 46.5 44.8 Personality Assessment tool.
Client assets bn 186.0 164.2 163.9 In addition to providing comprehensive wealth management services During 2012, financial performance was robust despite economic to affluent and high-net-worth clients, we bring the best of all areas headwinds and growth rates were favourable in comparison to the of Barclays to these clients, be it retail, business, corporate or peer average on key metrics such as income and profit before tax.
Adjusted return on equity increased to 14%: driven by a 13% 2012 marked the third year of W&IMs five year strategic investment increase in client assets to 186bn, an increase in client deposits of programme, known as Project Gamma, to transform our business 16%, income growth of 4%, and operating cost control as Project through improvements to client experience and productivity.
Gamma investments and improvements continue to earn returns.
It continues to progress well, with 2012 seeing continued improvement in both these areas.
For more detailed financial information please see the Financial review section Our clients at www.
com annualreport In 2012 we launched a new digital client portal, which allows clients to self-serve more effectively, when and how they prefer.
In addition, we initiated more detailed client reporting, voice biometrics for identification purposes, an upgraded portfolio management and construction tool, a more streamlined onboarding of new clients and quicker and simpler credit applications.
Our colleague, conduct and citizenship initiatives We continue to focus on training and development, and in 2012 a Wealth Management Curriculum was launched for all colleagues.
We believe our graduate programme in particular is one of the most comprehensive in the industry, including both in-house training and Our priorities for 2013 participation in the Chartered Financial Analyst programme.
Further enhance the client experience through continued We are committed to operating at the highest standards of conduct, technological improvements and an ever-deeper and more fundamentally believing that the trust our clients place in us is the rigorous understanding of clients entire financial position.
most critical element of our franchise.
Continue to strengthen the control and governance framework and processes through Project Gamma and other key investments.
In addition to extensive colleague involvement in local communities, we maintain a philanthropy centre of excellence that provides Drive professional development of all our 7,900 W&IM colleagues education for clients to help them achieve their own citizenship ambitions.
in line with the Barclays Purpose and Values.
Increase the productive time that relationship managers can spend with clients.
Help colleagues to be even more impactful in their communities, and continue to provide philanthropy services to clients to allow them to meet their own citizenship goals.
As part of Project Gamma, continue to grow income, in particular stable annuity income, combined with tight cost control.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 23 Group Finance Directors review Continuing prudent management means that our capital, liquidity and funding remain strong.
In 2012 we made good progress across most of our businesses, with adjusted profits increasing significantly, reflecting higher income and improvements in credit impairment and cost reductions.
Income statement Adjusted profit before tax increased 26% to 7,048m.
Adjusted results provide a more consistent basis for comparing business performance between periods and principally excludes own credit charge of 4,579m 2011: gain of 2,708m, gain on disposal of BlackRock, Inc. investment of 227m 2011: impairment loss of 1,858m, 1,600m 2011: 1,000m provision for PPI redress, and 850m 2011: nil provision for interest rate hedging products redress.
Adjusted income was up 2% at 29,043m despite challenging economic conditions, the continuing low interest rate environment and non-recurrence of 1,061m gains from the disposal of hedging instruments in 2011.
Within this, adjusted income in the Investment Bank grew 13% to 11,722m reflecting improved trading conditions.
The net interest margin in Retail and Business Banking, Corporate Banking and Wealth and Investment Management fell 18bps to 1.85%, 14bps of which resulted from reduced contribution from Group hedging activities.
This shows the relative stability of our customer margins.
We have delivered adjusted profit Credit impairment charges were down 5% at 3,596m, principally before tax of 7bn in 2012.
Our capital, reflecting improvements in Barclaycard, Corporate Banking and UKRBB.
This was partially offset by higher charges in the Investment Bank, liquidity and funding remain strong, Africa RBB and Europe RBB.
with our Core Tier 1 ratio at 10.9%.
Adjusted operating expenses were down 3% to 18,539m, with Chris Lucas non-performance costs decreasing 3% to 16,114m after absorbing Group Finance Director regulatory penalties of 290m 2011: nil relating to the industry-wide investigation into the setting of interbank offered rates and a 345m 2011: 325m UK bank levy charge.
Performance costs reduced 4% to 2,425m despite an increase in the charge for bonuses deferred from prior years to 1,223m 2011: 995m.
The adjusted cost: income ratio decreased to 64% 2011: 67%.
The tax charge on adjusted profits increased to 2,025m 2011: 1,325m, giving an adjusted effective tax rate of 28.7% 2011: 23.7%.
The tax charge on statutory profits decreased to 482m 2011: 1,928m after including a tax credit of 1,543m 2011: charge of 603m on the charge for own credit, provisions for PPI and interest rate hedging product redress and other adjusting items, which mainly received relief at the UK rate of 24.5% 2011: 26.5%, resulting in a significant increase in the statutory effective tax rate.
Balance sheet Total loans and advances declined to 466bn 2011: 479bn with increases in UK mortgage lending and Barclaycard offset by reductions in lending in the Investment Bank, Europe RBB and Corporate Banking.
24 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Your Finance Directors Review The Group Finance Director is responsible for monitoring the Banks financial performance and position and communicating this to both internal and external stakeholders.
Below he discusses the Banks performance during 2012 and its year end position as at 31 December 2012.
Total assets reduced 5% to 1,490bn, principally reflecting lower derivative assets as spreads tightened within the credit derivative Distribution of earnings portfolio.
This was partially offset by increased reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending due to higher matched We believe that the best way to support our stakeholders is book trading.
by operating a strong, profitable and growing business, which creates jobs and contributes to the economic success of the Total shareholders equity including non-controlling interests reduced communities in which we live and work.
The charts below detail 2.2bn to 63.0bn, driven by the loss for the year, dividends paid and how the earnings generated by our businesses are distributed currency translation differences due to depreciation of US Dollar and to a number of key stakeholders.
South African Rand against Sterling.
Capital Management Shareholders Core Tier 1 ratio was 10.9% 2011: 11.0%, reflecting a 2% reduction in Core Tier 1 capital to 42.1bn partially offset by a 1% reduction in Dividend per share 6.5p 2012 risk weighted assets to 387bn.
6.0p 2011 5.5p 2010 a Risk weighted assets reduced 1% to 387bn principally due to Dividend payout ratio 19% reductions in risk exposures, including the sell-down of legacy assets, 22% 19% and the impact of foreign exchange movements, largely offset by an increased operational risk charge and methodology and model changes.
Government We have estimated our proforma CRD IV Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 b Taxes borne 3,234m 2012 ratio on both a transitional and fully loaded basis, reflecting our current 3,341m 2011 interpretation of the rules and assuming they were applied as at 1 3,138m 2010 January 2013.
As at that date Barclays proforma transitional CET1 ratio c Taxes collected 2,856m would be approximately 10.6% and the fully loaded CET1 ratio would 3,078m be approximately 8.2%.
3,011m Funding and Liquidity Staff The Group maintained a strong liquidity position throughout 2012.
Compensation 38% 2012 The liquidity pool was 150bn 2011: 152bn remaining well within to adjusted net 42% 2011 our liquidity risk appetite.
operating income 43% 2010 Bonus pool as 20% The loan to deposit ratio for the Group was 110% 2011: 118% and % adjusted profit 29% for Retail and Business Banking, Corporate Banking and Wealth and 34% Investment Management was 102% 2011: 111%.
Total wholesale funding outstanding excluding repurchase agreements was 240bn 2011: 265bn, of which 101bn matures in less than one year 2011: 130bn.
The wholesale funding requirement supporting retail and wholesale businesses reduced with the continued increase in customer deposits and further reduction of legacy assets.
6bn was raised through Barclays participation in the Bank of Englands FLS supporting lending into the real economy to individuals, households and private nonfinancial companies.
Conclusion To summarise, were reporting good results for 2012.
Adjusted profits grew 26% to 7.0bn, income was up 2%, impairment improved 5%, and we reduced costs by 3%.
Our capital, liquidity and funding remain strong with a Core Tier 1 ratio of 10.9%.
All of which allowed us to pay a total Notes a Calculated as dividend per share divided by adjusted EPS.
declared dividend for 2012 of 6.5p per share.
b Taxes borne are the Companys own tax contribution, representing taxes paid by the Company in the year.
Chris Lucas c Taxes collected are those collected from employees and customers on behalf Group Finance Director of governments.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 25 Risk Getting risk management right is essential for a universal bank and to achieve this our exposures must be well understood and managed.
Barclays Risk objectives are aligned with the Groups purpose to help people achieve their ambitions in the right way and is underpinned by the Groups five core values: Respect: Integrity: Service: Excellence: and Stewardship.
Barclays has clear risk management objectives and an established strategy to deliver them through core risk management processes.
Of course, risks develop and evolve over time and their impact on the Group will vary in response to internal and external events.
Independent risk teams are in place within each of our businesses to support close working relationships with the business teams taking on the risk.
These risk teams ultimately report to a Chief Risk Officer within each business who in turn reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer and the business Chief Executive.
A separate Group risk team, including individually identified Principal Risk Owners for each Principal Risk adds a further layer of independence and looks across the Group to ensure that, for each Principal Risk, an overall risk appetite has been clearly defined and required standards and policies for risk management are being consistently delivered.
During 2012, there were four Principal Risks see the table below.
The credit and market risk portfolios Risk type have continued to perform well during The suffering of financial loss should any Credit the recent difficult market conditions.
of our customers not fulfil their contractual obligations to the Group.
risk Robert Le Blanc Chief Risk Officer The reduction to earnings or capital due to Market volatility of trading book positions or an inability to hedge the banking book balance sheet.
risk The failure to maintain capital ratios to Funding support business activity and meet regulatory requirements and the failure to meet liquidity risk obligations leading to an inability to support normal business activity and to meet liquidity regulatory requirements.
Losses or costs resulting from human factors, Operational inadequate or failed internal processes and systems or external events.
risk 26 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport How we measure and mitigate risk Barclays constantly reviews its exposures in a number of areas according to, for example, geography, maturity and industry.
We use portfolio reviews and a series of methodologies, control processes and limits to maintain concentrations at appropriate levels.
In order to strengthen the governance relating to conduct and reputation matters we created a Board Conduct, Reputation and Performance in 2012 Operational Risk Committee in 2013.
As a consequence the Board Risk Committee will have oversight of credit, market and funding risk While the economic environment in Barclays main markets was matters and will be renamed the Board Financial Risk Committee.
marked by generally weak or negative growth in 2012, Barclays loan impairment charges reduced 6% and the loan loss rate Conduct risk is the risk that detriment is caused to the Bank, to our remained broadly stable at 75bps 2011: 77bps.
customers, clients or counterparties because of the inappropriate execution of our business activities.
During 2013 we have specifically The retail loan impairment charge reduced 16% mainly reflecting recategorised conduct risk as a Principal Risk which will have Executive improvements in unsecured products in UKRBB and Barclaycard, Committee sponsorship from the Head of Compliance and Government where lower impairment resulted from improved delinquency, lower and Regulatory Relations.
A new management committee will be charge-offs and better recovery rates.
However deterioration was established to focus specifically on conduct risk.
seen in our Europe and South African businesses reflecting the weak credit environment and concerns about the housing sectors.
In 2013 we will build out and embed a new framework for the management of this risk and have delivered a Group-wide programme The wholesale loan impairment charge increased 13% principally to ensure that this is delivered.
due to higher charges in some legacy positions and losses on a small number of single name exposures in Investment Bank.
For more detailed information on conduct risk please see the Risk review section at www.
com annualreport We have improved our risk reporting disclosure to make it transparent and easily navigable.
Please see both the Reputation risk is the risk of damage to Barclays brand arising from Risk review and the Risk management sections at any association, action, or inaction which is perceived by stakeholders www.
com annualreport to be inappropriate or unethical.
This risk has been recategorised as a Principal Risk in 2013.
The daily value at risk fell sharply in early 2012 as market activity improved from the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the remainder of Managing reputation risk on a day-to-day basis is the direct the year DVaR remained relatively stable but at lower levels than responsibility of individuals involved in making commercial decisions seen in recent years.
in their respective businesses or functions.
Management of reputation risk cannot be isolated and allocated to a single person.
While the The operational risk profile in 2012 was dominated by the conduct Groups Chairman and Chief Executive have ultimate responsibility risk penalties relating to the industry-wide investigation into the for ensuring reputation risk is managed to a high standard across the setting of interbank offered rates, provisions for PPI and interest business, success relies on each and every business and function rate product redress.
The Reputation Risk Control Framework provides a clear articulation of the expectations of how businesses should identify and manage reputation risk consistently, recognising that Barclays has one global brand.
For more detailed information on reputation risk please see the Risk review section at www.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 27 Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee C h Board Remuneration Committee i e f E x E e c x u e t i v c e u Corporate Governance The UK Corporate Governance Code makes clear that corporate governance is about what the board of a company does and how it sets the companys values.
This is something that has been brought into sharp focus for Barclays during 2012.
Barclays has a well-defined and well-structured corporate governance framework in place to support the Boards aim of achieving long term and sustainable shareholder value.
But however robust the framework, it is imperative that it is supported by the right culture, values and behaviours, both at the top and throughout the entire organisation.
In 2012, Barclays faced much criticism of the values and behaviours it has demonstrated.
We are unanimous as a Board that we must accept this criticism and seek ways in which we can do better in the future.
I regard the independent review of Barclays business practices, led by Anthony Salz, which we announced in July 2012, and the work instigated by Antony Jenkins on culture and values as part of the Transform Programme, as providing a solid foundation on which we can build and move forward to become best in class.
As Chairman, I am responsible for the effective performance of the Board and, in that regard, one of my areas of focus since joining the Board has been to ensure that we have a strong and well-functioning Board, comprised of individuals not only with the right abilities in terms of technical or business experience, but with the personal qualities required to be effective stewards of the business and the dedication and commitment to the Company, particularly in times of stress.
Tim Breedon and Diane fide Saint Victor have joined the Board as non-executive Directors since I joined the Board and I anticipate Corporate Governance Framework that we will make further appointments during the course of 2013.
We are determined as a Board and as a company to make progress during 2013 and to do everything in our power to regain the trust of our Board Audit stakeholders: our commitment to implementing the recommendations Committee of the Salz Review is affirmation of our determination.
Sir David Walker Chairman 5 March 2013 Board Board of Directors Sir David Walker 73 Chairman Antony Jenkins 51 Group Chief Executive: Executive Director David Booth 58 Non-executive Director Tim Breedon 55 Non-executive Director Fulvio Conti 65 Non-executive Director Simon Fraser 53 Non-executive Director Reuben Jeffery III 59 Non-executive Director Chris Lucas 52 Group Finance Director: Executive Director Sir Andrew Likierman 69 Non-executive Director Dambisa Moyo 44 Non-executive Director Sir Michael Rake 65 Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee Sir John Sunderland 67 Non-executive Director A Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee was established at the end of January 2013.
Diane fide Saint Victor 58 Non-executive Director Notes For more detailed biographies please see a Known as the Board Financial Risk Committee with effect from 31 January 2013. www.
com corporategovernance b Known as the Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee with effect from 31 January 2013.
28 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport C t o i m v m e i t t e O e f f i Board Citizenship b Committee c e r Board Risk a Committee Good governance is vital in supporting the delivery of our strategic priorities More information on the role of the Board and its Committees can be found in Corporate Governance in Barclays which is available online at Barclays.
com Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee allocation of time % Board Audit Committee allocation of time % 2012 2011 2012 2011 1 1 5 1 Corporate governance matters 21 19 1 Control issues 13 4 2 2 Board and committee composition 32 31 2 Financial results 31 42 4 3 Succession planning and talent 29 30 3 Internal audit matters 14 6 6 2 4 Board effectiveness 14 16 4 External audit matters 6 6 5 Other 4 4 5 Business control environment 14 23 6 Other including governance 5 and compliance 22 19 4 3 3 The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is The work of the Committee in 2012 addressed three main themes.
First, accounting judgements, particularly in respect of provisions to be responsible for reviewing the composition of the Board and Board Committees to ensure they are properly constituted and balanced made for product mis-selling.
Secondly, the impact on the systems and controls in place at each of Barclays businesses arising from increasing in terms of skills, experience and diversity.
It is also responsible for ensuring the right people are in place to deliver the Companys strategy.
regulatory demands and rising consumer expectations.
And thirdly, the remediation programmes in place to enhance Barclays internal control The Committee does this by reviewing succession plans and talent management below Board level.
and regulatory compliance systems and procedures.
For more detailed information on the Board Audit Committee For more detailed information on the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee please see please see www.
com annualreport Board Risk Committee allocation of time % Board Remuneration Committee allocation of time % 2012 2011 2012 2011 1 1 1 Risk profile Risk appetite 1 Incentive awards 45 43 5 including capital and 2 Compensation frameworks 4 3 liquidity management 61 45 and policy 37 39 2 Key risk issues 18 38 3 Financial performance, 3 3 Internal control Risk policies 6 6 risk and regulation 18 18 4 Regulatory frameworks 5 4 5 Other including remuneration 2 and governance issues 10 7 2 2012 was another challenging year for the Committee.
Global The Board Remuneration Committee oversees all Barclays economic conditions, particularly in the Eurozone, drove much of its remuneration matters including incentive pool funding decisions, agenda.
The Committee also sought to take a more holistic view of together with oversight and approval of remuneration for executive risk management, partly in response to regulatory pressure, so that Directors, members of the Group and business unit Executive Barclays has an enterprise wide view of risk management that goes Committees, FSA Remuneration Code Staff and all employees with beyond the management of financial risks, such as credit risk, market total remuneration of 1m or more.
lt also approves major changes risk and funding risk.
in Barclays pension, benefits and long term plans.
For more detailed information on the Board Risk Committee For more detailed information on the Board Remuneration please see www.
com annualreport Committee please see www.
com annualreport Board Citizenship Committee allocation of time % Enhancing Board governance of risk To enhance Board governance of risk, a new Board committee 2012 5 1 1 Citizenship strategy 39 structure was put in place at the end of January 2013.
2 Reputation issues including reputation risks 11 The Board Risk Committee is now known as the Board Financial Risk 3 Regional citizenship activities 18 4 Policy and business issues Committee, and its focus will be on credit, market and funding risk.
including conduct issues 29 4 5 Other 3 The Board Citizenship Committee is now known as the Board 2 Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee.
It will have 3 oversight of conduct risk, reputation risk and operational risk and will retain its responsibilities for oversight of Barclays citizenship strategy.
As a corporate citizen, Barclays must demonstrate its value to wider A Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee, comprising Sir David society.
During 2012, the Board Citizenship Committee was responsible Walker, David Booth, Sir Michael Rake and Sir John Sunderland, for the oversight of Barclays conduct with regard to its corporate and has been created.
It will take an enterprise wide view of risk and societal obligations.
The Committee was also responsible for ensuring controls, including reviewing and agreeing overall risk appetite and the fulfilment of the Boards objective to protect and enhance the monitoring performance.
brand and reputation of Barclays and ensuring that Barclays is treating customers fairly.
In addition, it was responsible for reviewing and This new governance structure aims to ensure that the Board and monitoring the effectiveness of Barclays citizenship strategy.
Board Committees are able to devote more time to conduct, reputation and operational risk, while at the same time bringing together in one For more detailed information on the Board Citizenship Committee place at Board level the entire risk profile of Barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 29 Citizenship In striving to make Barclays the Go-To bank we must consider the impacts of all our day-to-day business decisions on our stakeholders and wider society.
Our goal is to make Barclays the Go-To bank for all of our stakeholders.
This means understanding their needs and making decisions in the short and long term that will positively impact our clients and customers, as well as the communities in which we operate.
To be successful we must establish the right culture and leadership, engage with our stakeholders and deliver on our commitments.
2015 Citizenship Plan Our 2015 Citizenship Plan was launched in May 2012 with specific commitments in three areas: the way we do business, contributing to growth and supporting our communities.
The Plan will evolve in line with our stakeholders priorities.
We are acutely aware that events following its launch have increased scepticism about our commitment.
We are engaging directly with our stakeholders and will incorporate their feedback into an updated version of the Plan.
We are also aligning and integrating the Plan with the work underway within our Transform Programme, especially the embedding of our new purpose and values.
Citizenship will be an explicit dimension within the balanced scorecard that we will put in place this year.
Delivery against our commitments in our Citizenship Plan will, Citizenship means understanding therefore, underpin the performance assessment for our most senior leaders in 2013 and for all colleagues in 2014. the needs of our stakeholders and For more detailed information on the balanced scorecard making decisions in the short and please see page 13 long term that will positively impact Enhanced governance the communities in which we operate.
The Board Citizenship Committee was responsible during 2012 for the oversight of Barclays conduct with regard to its corporate and societal Antony Jenkins obligations and its reputation as a responsible corporate citizen.
With Group Chief Executive effect from 31 January 2013, the Committees remit was broadened to include conduct, reputation and operational risk, and it was renamed the Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee.
It will retain responsibility for oversight of Barclays Citizenship strategy.
In 2012, we amended our internal management practices to ensure the consistent implementation and execution of our Citizenship Plan throughout the bank, particularly integration in each business division in a consistent and aligned manner.
We also enhanced our management of reputation risks by establishing a Reputation Council.
This committee oversees a new reputation risk control framework on behalf of the Group Executive Committee.
For more detailed information about Board governance on Citizenship see the Governance section at www.
com annualreport 30 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Turning aspiration into action Delivering our Citizenship commitments is not any one individuals responsibility its the responsibility of everyone at Barclays.
Were well on our way, but we need to think bigger, act quicker and align what were doing even better to our stakeholders expectations.
By staying the course, we can be certain that we will contribute positively to society, earn back over time the trust of our stakeholders and achieve our goal of making Barclays the Go-To bank for customers, clients and society.
Measuring our performance 2012 2011 2010 Gross new lending to UK households and businesses bn 44.0 45.0 43.5 Number of start-up businesses supported in the UK 112,000 102,000 103,000 Financing raised for businesses and governments globally bn 830 673 786 Global investment in our communities m 64.5 63.5 55.3 Colleagues involved in volunteering, giving and fundraising initiatives 68,000 70,000 59,000 Percentage of colleagues involved Performance in 2012 in volunteering, giving and While recognising that we have a long way to go to deliver on our fundraising initiatives % 48 47 39 Citizenship ambitions, we are pleased with the progress that we have made in 2012, particularly given the range of distractions that could have For more detailed information on these performance diverted our colleagues attention from their delivery responsibilities.
indicators please see the Financial review section at www.
com annualreport Contributing to growth We provided 44bn in gross new lending to UK households and businesses, including an estimated 5.7bn of net new lending under the FLS in 2012.
Barclays was the leading provider of loans to UK households and businesses under the NLGS and the FLS through Q3 2012 with strong Our priorities for 2013 growth continuing, particularly to individuals and households, through Q4.
In the UK, we supported 112,000 business start-ups across the Embed our purpose and values across Barclays.
year, the highest number since we started keeping records in 1988.
Our Investment Bank raised over 830bn in financing for businesses Increase the positive impact our products and services have and governments globally, ranking it the fourth largest provider of on enterprise development, employability and on the financial financing globally.
health of our customers and communities.
Strive to be market leading on disclosure and transparency.
We also continued to play an active role in addressing societal challenges around employability in 2012.
For instance, our Continue to build the skills of the next generation, enabling Apprenticeship Programme, which seeks to contribute to addressing disadvantaged young people to fulfil their potential.
the problem of youth unemployment in the UK, welcomed its 500th apprentice in January.
We are committed to recruiting a total of 1,000 apprentices by the middle of 2013.
Citizenship reporting Supporting our communities Over 68,000 Barclays employees around the world gave their time, We have included here a summary of our progress in 2012. skills and money to charitable causes, and we invested a total of A comprehensive account will be published in late April in our 64.5m in community programmes globally in 2012, focused on annual Citizenship Report.
building the enterprise, financial and life skills of the next generation.
Employees invested 458,000 hours volunteering and raised 30m for That report monitors progress across a wider range of issues and charities through our fundraising and giving initiatives.
We estimate contains extensive information about our strategy, impacts and that 1.2 million young people benefitted from the range of our performance.
It is independently assured by KPMG.
For more information about the Citizenship Report please see www.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 31 Summary remuneration report The Board Remuneration Committee provides governance and strategic oversight of remuneration.
I hope that 2012 will be seen as a turning point in the way Barclays approaches remuneration.
For 2012 and in future we are taking a different approach to the balance between Directors and employees remuneration, and returns for shareholders.
We have been justifiably criticised for failures to engage effectively with and explain our decisions to shareholders and the wider public, as well as on some occasions being criticised for the decisions themselves.
We have reviewed and adopted a new remuneration policy.
This reflects the direction of Barclays more broadly under the Transform Programme led by Antony Jenkins, and the adoption across the whole Group of a new statement of Barclays Purpose and Values.
We have made significant reductions to our remuneration costs.
Variable remuneration has been reduced overall by 16% and fixed remuneration by 7% year on year.
These are not one-off changes.
They reflect the Committees view that we are now on a multi-year path to reposition Barclays remuneration.
We committed last year to a journey to bring down our compensation ratios and have made good progress this year, with the Group compensation to adjusted net operating income ratio declining to 38% 2011: 42%.
As a result our compensation ratios have moved from the market median to the lower quartile within our industry.
We believe a We have made significant reductions ratio in the mid-30s is a sustainable position in the medium term which will ensure that we can continue to pay our people competitively for to our remuneration costs.
They reflect performance while also enabling us to deliver a greater share of the income we generate to shareholders.
We will be informed in this work the Committees view that we are now by a continuing constructive engagement and dialogue with our on a multi-year path to reposition shareholders and our other stakeholders.
The Committees focus in the coming months will be to continue the process of repositioning remuneration at Barclays, and regaining Sir John Sunderland shareholder and public understanding and confidence.
In future, Chairman, Board Remuneration Committee as part of the Transform Programme, individual performance will be assessed against a balanced scorecard and performance will be measured against Barclays values as well as other measures.
I believe 2012 saw us move significantly forward in achieving the right balance between the priorities of our various stakeholders.
Reduced remuneration costs, increasingly robust risk adjustments to both the incentive pool and individual incentive awards, tougher performance conditions, new shareholding requirements, and improved remuneration disclosures create a best practice framework which we will continue to develop in the coming year and beyond.
The next two pages provide a summary of our remuneration policy, On behalf of the Board governance, the link between remuneration and performance, Sir John Sunderland and 2012 incentives.
Page 35 provides summary remuneration Chairman, Board Remuneration Committee disclosures required by statute.
I encourage you to read our full 5 March 2013 Remuneration section within Governance online at www.
com annualreport which contains much fuller details on Barclays remuneration.
32 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Remuneration policy Remuneration governance The Committee reviews and updates the Barclays remuneration policy The Committee is responsible for setting the over-arching objectives, periodically.
For 2013, as part of the Transform Programme, the policy principles and parameters of remuneration policy across the Group.
The principles set out in the policy It oversees all Barclays remuneration matters including incentive pool underpin both 2012 remuneration decisions and the Committees decisions, together with oversight and approval of remuneration for objectives for 2013 and beyond.
executive Directors, members of the Group and business unit Executive Committees, Code Staff and all employees with total annual remuneration The new remuneration policy is set out in the table below.
It also approves major changes in Barclays pension, benefits and long term incentive plans.
The Committee takes into account Barclays remuneration decisions: independent advice and appraisals of latest market data when considering incentive levels and remuneration packages.
Support the goal of becoming the Go-To bank by attracting, regular updates on Group and business financial performance and the retaining and competitively rewarding colleagues with the ability, Groups risk profile from the Group Finance Director and Chief Risk experience, skill, values and behaviours to deliver that goal.
Will only reward business results when these are achieved in For individual remuneration decisions made by the Committee, a manner consistent with Barclays values and behaviours: including the decisions for executive Directors, the level of remuneration across Barclays and each of the businesses is taken Respect: We respect and value those we work with, and the into account.
The combined potential remuneration for the executive contribution that they make.
Directors and for senior employees from bonuses and long term Integrity: We act fairly, ethically and openly in all we do.
incentive awards outweighs the fixed component of remuneration, and is subject to individual and business performance.
This means Service: We put our clients and customers at the centre of that the majority of remuneration is risk-adjusted.
Excellence: We use our energy, skills and resources to deliver Remuneration and performance the best, sustainable results.
Adherence to the principles of the new remuneration policy means that remuneration decisions for all employees across the whole of Barclays Stewardship: We are passionate about leaving things better are aligned with and support the achievement of Barclays goal of than we found them.
Protect and promote shareholder interests by incentivising colleagues to deliver sustained performance and create long term This is achieved by linking remuneration to performance, assessing value through the delivery of Barclays goal.
Those decisions will both what is achieved and also how goals are achieved.
So we will reflect that performance for individuals and in aggregate.
Barclays measure and reward our people, not just on commercial success but will pay competitively for high performance but will not pay more on how they live Barclays values and behaviours in their daily work.
than the amount appropriate to maximise the long term value of the bank for its shareholders.
We will embed Barclays values in the way remuneration is managed by incorporating a balanced scorecard of both financial and non-financial 4.
Create a direct and recognisable alignment between measures into the performance appraisal process.
Our balanced scorecard remuneration and risk exposure, as well as adjusting current and is a key part of the cultural change that is required to deliver the strategy of deferred incentives for current and historic risk, including malus the Transform Programme.
It measures Barclays performance across the adjustments, as appropriate.
following dimensions Customers and Clients, Colleagues, Citizenship, Conduct and Company.
Should be as simple and clear for colleagues and stakeholders as possible as is the process used to determine them.
Linking our employee performance assessments and remuneration decisions to the balanced scorecard promotes a clear and direct 6.
Ensure that balance between shareholder returns and alignment between remuneration policy and Barclays strategy.
remuneration is appropriate, clear and supports long term shareholder interests.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 33 Summary remuneration report continued 2012 incentives We recognise the importance that our stakeholders attach to the Incentive pools have been reduced while adjusted profits have judgements that we apply in managing remuneration.
This is because of actions taken by remuneration costs, and increasingly robust risk-adjustments and management to reposition Barclays compensation in the market performance conditions will continue to be a focus in how we achieve place and to reflect significant risk events that impacted Barclays the right balance between the priorities of our various stakeholders.
The significant risk events include the LIBOR investigation Remuneration must be managed in a way which incentivises employees, and redress for PPI and interest rate hedging products.
ensures pay is linked to performance and is appropriately aligned to Compensation to adjusted net operating income is down to 38% in risk.
Material progress has been made in reducing absolute levels of 2012 2011: 42%.
Within aggregate compensation there has been remuneration.
In summary: strong differentiation on the basis of individual performance to allow Total Group incentive awards have been reduced by 16% since 2011, us to manage compensation costs but also to pay competitively for with Group adjusted profit before tax increasing 26%.
Incentive awards at the Investment Bank have been reduced by 20% Average value of bonus per Group employee down 13% year on year since 2011, with adjusted profit before tax increasing 37%.
to 13,300: average value of bonus per Investment Bank employee down 17% year on year to 54,100.
Average value of bonus per Group incentives have reduced by 1.3bn 38% since 2010 with Group employee excluding the Investment Bank down 8% year adjusted profit before tax up 23% since 2010.
In the Investment Bank on year to 4,800. incentives have reduced by a similar amount, 1.3bn 48%, since 2010 with adjusted profit before tax down 7% since 2010.
The proportion of the bonus pool that is deferred significantly exceeds the FSAs Remuneration Code requirements and is expected to remain among the highest deferral levels globally.
Barclays total incentive awards granted Barclays Group Investment Bank Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31.12.12 31.12.11 % 31.12.12 31.12.11 % m m Change m m Change Bonus pool 1,854 2,150 14 1,298 1,536 15 Other incentives 314 428 27 96 201 52 Total incentive awards granted 2,168 2,578 16 1,394 1,737 20 Adjusted profit before tax 7,048 5,590 26 4,063 2,965 37 Bonus pool as % of adjusted profit before tax a pre bonus 20% 29% 23% 35% Proportion of bonus that is deferred 53% 58% 69% 75% Total employees full time equivalent 139,200 141,100 1 24,000 23,600 2 Bonus per employee 13,300 15,237 13 54,100 65,085 17 Note a Calculated as bonus awards divided by adjusted profit before tax excluding the income statement charge for bonus awards.
Compensation ratio trends and benchmark against peers Antony Jenkins said in the 2012 Results Announcement on 12 February 2013: The reduction in compensation in 2012 moves Barclays from being at the median pay-performance level compared to competitors over the We committed last year to a journey to bring down our compensation last two years to below the lower quartile level.
This is a major shift which the Committee recognised would require strong management ratio and have made good progress this year, with the Group compensation to net income ratio declining to 38% 2011: 42%.
to achieve in a single year.
Although it exposes the Group to some retention risk, the Committee determined that it was a necessary While this is progress, not the destination, we believe a ratio in the mid-30s is a sustainable position in the medium term which will ensure step on the multi-year journey to reposition Barclays remuneration.
Major shareholders and their representative bodies were consulted that we can continue to pay our people competitively for performance while also enabling us to deliver a greater share of the income we as part of the process for deciding to take this change of approach.
Barclays Group compensation as a percentage of adjusted net operating income 55% 52% 49% 50% 48% Peer group 75th percentile Peer group median Barclays Group 44% 44% 45% 44% Peer group 25th percentile Basis of calculation 43% The following peer group companies were used to 40% 42% 40% compare Barclays compensation ratio where FY 2012 ratios were unavailable as at 28 February 2013, data for 39% Q3 2012 was used : BBVA, BNP Paribas, Bank of 38% 38% America, Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, HSBC, 35% JP Morgan, Lloyds, Morgan Stanley, RBS, Santander, Societe Generale, UBS and Unicredit.
The impact of own 2010 2011 2012 credit is excluded.
34 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Statutory remuneration disclosures This page includes details of Directors remuneration in line with 2012 for Antony Jenkins, and 1 January 2012 to 3 July 2012 for Bob current UK directors remuneration disclosure requirements.
Antony Jenkins full year 2012 remuneration was 2.596m Accordingly the figures shown for 2012 in the tables on this page for and is shown in more detail in the Remuneration section within Antony Jenkins and for Bob Diamond are for the period during which Governance at www.
com annualreport they served as executive Directors 30 August 2012 to 31 December Executive Directors - total remuneration Antony Jenkins Chris Lucas Bob Diamond 2012 2012 2011 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 000 Salary 373 800 800 685 1,350 Current year cash bonus 0 0 0 0 0 Current year share bonus 0 0 0 0 0 Deferred cash bonus 0 0 0 0 0 Deferred share bonus 0 0 1,800 0 2,700 Total of salary and bonus 373 800 2,600 685 4,050 Long term incentive award 1,467 1,067 1,333 0 2,250 Total remuneration 1,840 1,867 3,933 685 6,300 Executive Directors - benefits Directors emoluments and statutory disclosures 2012 2011 2012 2011 000 000 m m Antony Jenkins 19 Aggregate emoluments 5.5 15.9 Chris Lucas 34 28 Amounts paid under long term Bob Diamond 262 474 incentive schemes 2.8 5.8 8.3 21.7 There were no pension contributions paid to defined contribution schemes on behalf of Directors 2011: nil.
There were no notional pension contributions to defined contribution schemes 2011: nil.
As at 31 December 2012, there were no Directors accruing benefits under a defined benefit scheme 2011: no Directors.
2012 fees for the Chairman and non-executive Directors Fees Benefits 2012 2011 000 000 Total 000 Total 000 Chairman Sir David Walker non-executive Director from 1 September 2012 and Chairman from 1 November 2012 167 6 173 Non-executive Directors David Booth 170 170 145 Tim Breedon from 1 November 2012 18 18 Fulvio Conti 110 110 105 Simon Fraser 140 140 130 Reuben Jeffery III 105 105 98 Sir Andrew Likierman 135 135 127 Dambisa Moyo 120 120 105 Sir Michael Rake 220 220 188 Sir John Sunderland 161 161 132 Alison Carnwath to 24 July 2012 114 114 158 Marcus Agius to 31 October 2012 750 1 751 751 In accordance with his appointment letter, Marcus Agius was paid his monthly fee as non-executive Director and Chairman for the remainder of his notice period up to 1 January 2013.
Accordingly the fees and benefits shown above are for the whole of 2012.
T T otal shar otal shar eholder r eholder r eturn eturn Total shareholder return Ye The gr ar ended aph opposite sho 31 December ws the value, at 31 December 2 012, of 100 T Ye otal shar ar ended eholder r 31 December eturn 111 invested in Barclays on 31 December 2007 compared with the value 103 101 Year ended 31 December 111 100 of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The other points plotted are 91 103 111 101 the values at intervening financial year ends.
The FTSE 100 Index is 103 100 101 100 91 72 a widely recognised performance comparison for large UK companies 91 and this is why it has been chosen as a comp 61 arator to illustr 62 ate 59 72 72 Barclays total shareholder return.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 35 Summary financial statements Condensed consolidated income statement The summary consolidated income statement and the summary consolidated balance sheet were approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2013 and signed on its behalf by the Group Chairman.
2012 2011 For the year ended 31 December m m Continuing operations Net interest income 11,639 12,201 Net fee and commission income 8,582 8,622 Net trading income 3,025 7,660 Net investment income 817 2,305 Net premiums from insurance contracts 896 1,076 Net gain on disposal of investment in BlackRock, Inc. 227 Other income 105 1,169 Total income 25,291 33,033 Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 600 741 Total income net of insurance claims 24,691 32,292 Credit impairment charges and other provisions 3,596 3,802 Impairment of investment in BlackRock, Inc. 1,800 Net operating income 21,095 26,690 Staff costs 10,447 11,407 Administration and general expenses 6,643 6,356 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 669 673 Amortisation of intangible assets 435 419 UK Bank Levy 345 325 Operating expenses excluding goodwill impairment and provisions for PPI and interest rate hedging products redress 18,539 19,180 Goodwill impairment 597 Provision for PPI redress 1,600 1,000 Provision for interest rate hedging products redress 850 Operating expenses 20,989 20,777 Profit loss on disposal of undertakings and share of results of associates and joint ventures 140 34 Profit before tax 246 5,879 Tax 482 1,928 Loss Profit after tax 236 3,951 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 1,041 3,007 Non-controlling interests 805 944 Loss Profit after tax 236 3,951 Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations Basic loss earnings per ordinary share 8.5p 25.1p Diluted loss earnings per ordinary share 8.5p 24.0p Independent auditors statement to the members of Barclays PLC Independent auditors statement to the members of Barclays PLC Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency We have examined the Summary financial statement which comprises of the summary financial statement within the Annual Review with the Summary Consolidated Income Statement, Summary Consolidated the full annual financial statements, and the Summary Remuneration Balance Sheet, and the Summary Remuneration Report.
Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
consider the implications for our statement if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary financial statement.
36 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Summary financial statements Condensed consolidated balance sheet 2012 2011 For the year ended 31 December m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 86,175 106,894 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,456 1,812 Trading portfolio assets 145,030 152,183 Financial assets designated at fair value 46,061 36,949 Derivative financial instruments 469,146 538,964 Loans and advances to banks 40,489 47,446 Loans and advances to customers 425,729 431,934 Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 176,956 153,665 Available for sale investments 75,109 68,491 Current and deferred tax assets 3,268 3,384 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 4,360 4,563 Investments in associates and joint ventures 570 427 Goodwill and intangible assets 7,915 7,846 Property, plant and equipment 5,754 7,166 Retirement benefit assets 2,303 1,803 Total assets 1,490,321 1,563,527 Liabilities Deposits from banks 77,010 91,116 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,573 969 Customer accounts 385,707 366,032 Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 217,342 207,292 Trading portfolio liabilities 44,794 45,887 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 78,280 87,997 Derivative financial instruments 462,468 527,910 Debt securities in issue 119,581 129,736 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 12,232 12,580 Current and deferred tax liabilities 1,340 2,092 Subordinated liabilities 24,018 24,870 Provisions 2,766 1,529 Retirement benefit liabilities 253 321 Total liabilities 1,427,364 1,498,331 Shareholders equity Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests 53,586 55,589 Non-controlling interests 9,371 9,607 Total shareholders equity 62,957 65,196 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 1,490,321 1,563,527 For more detailed information, please see the Financial statements at www.
com annualreport This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only Opinion for the Companys members as a body in accordance with section 428 of In our opinion the Summary financial statement is consistent with the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving the full annual financial statements, and the Remuneration Report of this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to Barclays PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 and complies with any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands the applicable requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006, it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
and the regulations made thereunder.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by  LLP the Auditing Practices Board.
Our reports on the Companys full annual Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors financial statements describe the basis of our audit opinion on those London, United Kingdom financial statements, the Directors Report and the Summary 5 March 2013 Remuneration Report.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 37 Tough questions, honest answers G iven the importance of conduct and reputation within the banking industry, how do you intend to deal with these?
Conduct and Reputation risk are being categorised as new Principal Risks in 2013 in order to ensure appropriate oversight is being applied.
See page 26 for further details on our risk management process and Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee.
38 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Share capital and other information As at 31 December 2012, the Companys issued share capital totalled On 31 October 2008, Barclays PLC issued, in conjunction with a 12,243m ordinary shares which represented 100% of the total issued simultaneous issue of Reserve Capital Instruments issued by Barclays share capital.
The Companys Articles of Association provide for Bank PLC, warrants to subscribe for up to 1,516.9 million new ordinary Sterling, Dollar, Euro and Yen preference shares preference shares.
As at 31 December 2012, there were No preference shares have been issued to date.
The rights attaching unexercised warrants to subscribe for 379.2 million ordinary shares.
to shares, including any restrictions on transfer and any limitations These warrants could be exercised at any time up to close of business on on the holding of securities and requirements to obtain approvals for a 31 October 2013.
On 13 February 2013, Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank transfer of securities, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
PLC announced that they had entered into an agreement with Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs International the warrantholders pursuant to which the warrantholders agreed to exercise in aggregate On a show of hands and on a poll at a general meeting, every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote 379.2m outstanding warrants.
As a consequence of this agreement no warrants remain outstanding.
has one vote for every ordinary share held.
Deadlines for voting, and any restrictions on voting, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Other Information The Companys Articles of Association specify that Directors may Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs operate in connection with certain be appointed by the existing Directors or by the shareholders in a general meeting.
of the Groups Employee Share Plans Plans.
The trustees of the EBTs may exercise all rights attached to the shares in accordance with their fiduciary duties other than as specifically restricted in the relevant Plan The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by governing documents.
The trustees of the EBTs have informed the a Special Resolution at a general meeting.
Company that their normal policy is to abstain from voting in respect of the Barclays shares held in trust.
The trustees of the Global The Directors may, if authorised by the shareholders in general Sharepurchase EBT and UK Sharepurchase EBT may vote in respect of meeting, allot Barclays shares and may buy back Barclays shares.
Barclays shares held in the Sharepurchase EBTs, but only as instructed As at 28 February 2013, the Company had an unexpired authority to by participants in those Plans in respect of their Partnership shares and repurchase shares up to a maximum of 1,220,174,570 ordinary shares.
when vested Matching and Dividend shares.
The trustees will not otherwise vote in respect of shares held in the Sharepurchase EBTs.
Substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights from those of other shareholders.
Information provided to the Company by substantial shareholders pursuant to the Financial Services Authoritys FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR is published via a Regulatory Information Service and is available on the Companys website.
As at 31 December 2012, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the DTR of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares.
% of total voting Number of rights attaching to a Person interested Barclays Shares issued share capital His Highness Sheikh Mansour b Bin Zayed Al Nahyan 858,546,492 7.02 c Qatar Holding LLC 813,964,552 6.65 d BlackRock, Inc. 805,969,166 7.06 e Legal & General Group plc 480,805,132 3.99 f The Capital Group Companies Inc 371,944,325 3.04 Notes a The percentage of voting rights detailed above was calculated at the time c Qatar Holding LLC is wholly-owned by Qatar Investment Authority.
of the relevant disclosures made in accordance with Rule 5 of the DTR.
d Total shown includes 8,003,236 contracts for difference to which voting rights b Total shown comprises 1 758,437,618 shares that are legally owned by are attached.
PCP Gulf Invest 3 Limited, which is wholly owned by Nexus Capital Investing e Legal & General Group plcs interest is held by Legal & General Assurance Limited NCIL.
NCIL is in turn wholly owned by Abu Dhabi International Pensions Management Limited.
United Investments LLC, which is in turn wholly owned by His Highness f The Capital Group Companies Inc CG holds its shares via CG management Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan HHSM : and 2 100,108,874 cashcompanies and funds.
On 30 January 2013, the Company was notified that settled options referencing ordinary shares that are legally owned by Yas CG was interested in 492,653,250 shares, representing 4.02% of total voting Capital Limited YCL, which is, in turn, wholly owned by HHSM.
YCL has no rights attaching to issued share capital.
right to acquire or exercise any voting rights in Barclays PLC.
Following an increase during February 2013 in issued share capital to which voting rights are attached, the Company was notified on 4 March 2013, that in aggregate, HHSM is indirectly interested in 783,509,699 ordinary shares, comprising 758,437,618 shares held by PCP Gulf Invest 3 Limited and 25,072,081 cash-settled options referencing ordinary shares held by YCL, representing 6.09% of total voting rights attaching to issued share capital.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 39 Tough questions, honest answers G iven the ambitions for your strategy, when will the dividend increase?
We are aiming to drive a greater balance between staff and shareholder returns, accelerating our progressive dividend policy from 2014 and targeting a payout ratio to shareholders of 30% over time.
See page 25 for further details on our dividend and distribution of earnings.
40 I Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 barclays.
Keep your personal details up to date Annual General Meeting 'AGM' Please remember to tell The Registrar if you move house or need to update your bank details.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2012 I 41 Shareholder enquiries Useful contact details The Registrar to Barclays If you have any questions about your Barclays shares, please contact The Registrar to Barclays: questions@share-registers.
Barclays e-view allows you to manage your Share price shares online and receive the latest updates directly by email.
Registered No: 48839 Barclays Bank PLC 2013 Audio versions of the Annual Review 9912864 will also be available at the AGM.
