Business review Operational update Providing the services to enable growth and profitability Ian Fantozzi Chief operating officer Beazley group today has tripled in premium terms in the last ten years.
At the beginning of 2003, we had one ofce in London: today we have ofces in 24 locations globally.
More than half our people are now located outside the UK, up from 30% five years ago.
A strategic priority for Beazley as we grow is to scale our operations to ensure that client and broker service keeps pace with our growth.
Beazley is an entrepreneurial insurer: our success relies heavily upon the expertise of our underwriters and their ability to move quickly to meet client needs.
The role of our operations team is to give our underwriters and claims professionals the tools and the support to do this job.
Our operations strategy has five areas of focus: Supporting growth initiatives providing scalable and responsive operational support Beazley has three strategic growth initiatives at Lloyds, in the US and in Europe.
We are also seeing growth opportunities in the Asia Pacic region, notably in Australia and Singapore.
We continue to identify attractive new product lines for example, aviation and opportunities to offer our clients packaged products, such as Beazley BreachResponse.
In 2012, we took important steps in standardising business processes and consolidating underwriting IT platforms for our business at Lloyds, in the US and globally outside the US.
Our systems and processes now provide better support for new product rollouts and enable greater ability to scale operational support for business growth opportunities.
The investments that we have been making to our processes and IT platforms will be key to supporting Beazleys growth in the years to come.
It is important to provide a high quality working environment that is conducive to team working and thought leadership.
Our ofces are open plan, bright and airy with a style and consistency that supports our global brand.
We strive to get the best quality working space at the best lease and facility cost.
In 2012, we completed the move to an additional oor in Beazleys London ofce, at Plantation Place.
This has provided ample space for the business to expand in London.
Ensuring sustained profitability maximising economies of scale through cost ecient processes and global resourcing Beazley is organised to a large degree around global underwriting and claims teams.
This model has served us well in ensuring that products that succeed in one market can be swiftly introduced in others.
However it is important that this does not result in back ofce systems and support resources becoming duplicative.
Many of our back ofce processes have evolved or have been acquired over time, with focus being primarily on speed to market.
In pursuit of greater efficiency and consistency of operational service we have been steadily centralising operations support or outsourcing where this brings further value.
We want to make sure that operations and processing are done by appropriately skilled people, at the most cost effective location, whilst providing the best service levels.
In 2012, we made good progress in further developing central processing centres such as in Connecticut, US: and in outsourcing non-core operations such as some aspects of IT software development and infrastructure support.
Beazley Annual report 2012 49 Business review Operational update continued Operating within our agreed risk appetite implementing consistent governance and service ownership groupwide Effective risk management, described in more detail on page 51, requires clear visibility of the level of operational risk we maintain.
Critical to supporting an effective control environment is consistency of ownership for operations support and the provision of management information.
As we continue to make our operational support more efficient, we are dening single points of ownership for processes, establishing clear accountability for process execution and planning.
This has simplied operational control reporting and will strengthen our ability to provide a coordinated, rapid response to supporting business growth opportunities.
The Beazley Intelligence data warehouse, first established in 2009, is continuing its programme of work to consolidate our trading data into a single source of management information.
We can use this platform to highlight global trends in underwriting and claims performance, helping us to identify higher margin products where we should focus our growth.
Enabling product and service innovation supporting innovation and providing tools that dierentiate our service Our strategy focuses on two types of innovation.
Firstly, there is insurance product innovation, which requires an operational platform that facilitates an efficient product pipeline from idea development through to product launch.
Secondly, there is the development of new or enhanced tools and support services that enable our employees to perform optimally in their roles.
We have found that our historic approach to US products of one coverage, one policy has in some cases limited our ability to process commercially attractive package policies, and we have been making adjustments to address this.
As we seek to offer a broader range of products that combine third party indemnity cover with response services, we have adapted our back ofce systems to handle these more complex offerings.
In 2012 we rolled out new technology to better support the use of mobile and tablet devices, reducing our reliance on paper and enabling better communications for our teams on a global scale.
We also continue to support electronic trading and paperless claims handling initiatives, making it easier for our brokers to transact business with us.
Managing for performance developing our talent and sourcing operational skills needed for a high quality service Growing across different markets entails greater operational complexity and a requirement for additional skills in our staff.
We do not want to be limited to specic geographic pools of skilled individuals, such as project managers, IT specialists and business analysts.
Some locations such as London also have higher unit costs both to hire and to accommodate employees.
With this in mind, we continue to improve our sourcing channels to tap into different skilled resource pools.
Where possible, if we can deliver a service competently from a remote location, we will aim to do so better leveraging our more operational oriented locations, notably Connecticut, and Dublin.
As with all Beazley talent we recognise the importance of developing attractive career paths.
We want to equip our operations team with the right skills for the job.
We routinely review our talent for potential skills gaps and then provide the most relevant training to ensure a high standard of service provision.
Looking ahead It is most important that we maintain consistency in our approach to delivering high quality service and continually improving operational efficiency.
The above five areas are core to our operational strategy, and we will continue to pursue these raising the bar in operational service provision and in our ability to react quickly and efficiently to new business opportunities.
