Financial statements Glossary Coverholder managing general agent Aggregates aggregations Accumulations of insurance loss exposures which result from A rm either in the United Kingdom or overseas authorised by a managing agent under the terms of a binding authority to underwriting multiple risks that are exposed to common causes of loss.
enter into contracts of insurance in the name of the members of the syndicate concerned, subject to certain written terms Aggregate excess of loss and conditions.
A Lloyds broker can act as a coverholder.
The reinsurer indemnifies an insurance company the reinsured for an aggregate or cumulative amount of losses in excess Deferred acquisition costs DAC Costs incurred for the acquisition or the renewal of insurance of a specified aggregate amount.
policies eg brokerage, premium levy and staff related costs which are capitalised and amortised over the term of the A. M. Best A. M. Best is a worldwide insurance-rating and information contracts.
agency whose ratings are recognised as an ideal benchmark for assessing the financial strength of insurance related Earnings per share EPS basic diluted Ratio, in pence and cents, calculated by dividing the organisations, following a rigorous quantitative and qualitative analysis of a companys balance sheet strength, operating consolidated profit after tax by the weighted average number of ordinary shares issued, excluding shares owned by the group.
For calculating diluted earnings per share the number of shares Binding authority and profit or loss for the year is adjusted for all dilutive potential A contracted agreement between a managing agent and a ordinary shares such as share options granted to employees.
coverholder under which the coverholder is authorised to enter into contracts of insurance for the account of the members Excess per risk reinsurance of the syndicate concerned, subject to specified terms A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a and conditions.
specified limit, indemnifies the reinsured company against the amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to Capacity each risk involved in each loss.
This is the maximum amount of premiums that can be accepted by a syndicate.
Capacity also refers to the amount of insurance Expense ratio coverage allocated to a particular policyholder or in the Ratio, in percentage terms, of the sum of expenses for marketplace in general.
acquisition of insurance contracts and administrative expenses to net earned premiums.
The calculation is performed excluding Capital growth assets the impact of foreign exchange on non-monetary items.
These are assets that do not pay a regular income and target an increase in value over the long-term.
They will typically Facultative reinsurance have a higher risk and volatility than that of the core portfolio.
A reinsurance risk that is placed by means of a separately Currently these are the hedge fund assets.
negotiated contract as opposed to one that is ceded under a reinsurance treaty.
Catastrophe reinsurance A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a Gross premiums written specified limit, indemnifies the reinsured company for the Amounts payable by the insured, excluding any taxes or duties amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect levied on the premium, including any brokerage and to an accumulation of losses resulting from a catastrophic commission deducted by intermediaries.
event or series of events.
Hard market Claims An insurance market where prevalent prices are high, Demand by an insured for indemnity under an insurance with restrictive terms and conditions offered by insurers.
Horizontal limits Claims ratio Reinsurance coverage limits for multiple events.
Ratio, in percentage terms, of net insurance claims to net earned premiums.
The calculation is performed excluding Incurred but not reported IBNR the impact of foreign exchange on non-monetary items.
These are anticipated or likely claims that may result from an insured event although no claims have been reported so far.
Combined ratio Ratio, in percentage terms, of the sum of net insurance International accounting standards board IASB claims, expenses for acquisition of insurance contracts An international panel of accounting experts responsible for and administrative expenses to net earned premiums.
This is also the sum of the expense ratio and the claims ratio.
The calculation is performed excluding the impact of foreign exchange on non-monetary items.
Beazley Annual report 2012 151 Glossary continued International accounting standards IAS International financial Retention limits reporting standards IFRS Limits imposed upon underwriters for retention of exposures Standards formulated by the IASB with the intention of by the group after the application of reinsurance programmes.
achieving internationally comparable financial statements.
Since 2002, the standards adopted by the IASB have been Return on equity ROE referred to as International Financial Reporting Standards Ratio, in percentage terms calculated by dividing the IFRS.
Until existing standards are renamed, they continue to consolidated profit after tax by the average daily total equity.
be referred to as International Accounting Standards IAS.
Retrocessional reinsurance Lead underwriter The reinsurance of the reinsurance account.
It serves The underwriter of a syndicate who is responsible for setting to lay-off risk.
the terms of an insurance or reinsurance contract that is subscribed by more than one syndicate and who generally Risk has primary responsibility for handling any claims arising This term may variously refer to: under such a contract.
a the possibility of some event occurring which causes injury or loss: Line b the subject matter of an insurance or reinsurance contract: or The proportion of an insurance or reinsurance risk that is c an insured peril.
accepted by an underwriter or which an underwriter is willing to accept.
Sidecar special purpose syndicate Specialty reinsurance company designed to provide additional Managing agent capacity to a specic insurance company.
They operate by A company that is permitted by Lloyds to manage the purchasing a portion or all of a group of insurance policies, underwriting of a syndicate.
They have become quite prominent in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina as a vehicle to add riskManaging general agent MGA bearing capacity, and for investors to participate in the potential An insurance intermediary acting as an agent on behalf of profits resulting from sharp price increases.
Short-tail Medium-tail A type of insurance where claims are usually made during A type of insurance where the claims may be made a few years the term of the policy or shortly after the policy has expired.
after the period of insurance has expired.
Property insurance is an example of short-tail business.
Net assets per share Soft market Ratio, in pence and cents, calculated by dividing the net assets An insurance market where prevalent prices are low, and terms total equity by the number of shares issued.
and conditions offered by insurers are less restrictive.
Net premiums written Surplus lines insurer Net premiums written is equal to gross premiums written less An insurer that underwrites surplus lines insurance in the USA.
Lloyds underwriters are surplus lines insurers in all jurisdictions of the USA except Kentucky and the US Virgin Islands.
Provision for outstanding claims Provision for claims that have already been incurred at the Total shareholder return TSR reporting date but have either not yet been reported or not The increase in the share price plus the value of any first and yet been fully settled.
second dividends paid and proposed during the year.
Rate Treaty reinsurance The premium expressed as a percentage of the sum insured A reinsurance contract under which the reinsurer agrees to offer or limit of indemnity.
and to accept all risks of certain size within a dened class.
Reinsurance special purpose syndicate Unearned premiums reserve A special purpose syndicate SPS created to operate as a The portion of premium income in the business year that is reinsurance sidecar to Beazleys treaty account, capitalising attributable to periods after the balance date is accounted on Beazleys position in the treaty reinsurance market.
for as unearned premiums in the underwriting provisions.
Reinsurance to close RITC A reinsurance which closes a year of account by transferring the responsibility for discharging all the liabilities that attach to that year of account and any year of account closed into that year plus the right to buy any income due to the closing year of account into an open year of account in return for a premium.
Beazley 152 Annual report 2012 If you have nished reading this report and no longer wish to keep it, please pass it on to other interested readers, return it to Beazley or recycle it.
Designed and produced by: The College www.
com Beazley online Annual report and accounts 2012 www.
com 2012 Beazley plc 2 Northwood Avenue Northwood Park Santry Demesne Santry Dublin 9 | Ireland Phone: 353 0 1 854 4700 Fax: 353 0 1 842 8481 Registered number: 102680 www.
