Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the nineteenth Annual General 11.
That, in substitution for all existing authorities, the Directors Meeting of BlackRock World Mining Trust plc will be held at the of the Company be and they are hereby generally and of ces of BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited, unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 551 of the 12Throgmorton Avenue, London EC2N 2DL on Thursday, 25 April Companies Act 2006 the Act, to exercise all the powers of the 2013 at 11.30 a. m. to transact the following business: Company to allot relevant securities as fide ned in that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 443,218 being 5% of Ordinary business the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital, 1.
To receive the report of the Directors and the financial excluding treasury shares, of the Company at the date of this statements for the year ended 31 December 2012, together notice provided this authority shall expire at the conclusion of with the report of the auditor thereon.
the next Annual General Meeting to be held in 2014 but so that the Company may, before such expiry, make any offer or 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year agreement which would or might require relevant securities to ended 31 December 2012. be allotted pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
To declare a final dividend of 14.00p per ordinary share.
To consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions as 4.
To re-elect Mr I C S Barby as a Director.
To re-elect Mr C A M Buchan as a Director.
That, in substitution for all existing authorities and subject to the passing of resolution numbered 11 above, the Directors of 6.
To elect Mr D W Cheyne as a Director.
the Company be and are hereby empowered pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to 7.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor to the Company.
allot equity securities as fide ned in section 560 of the Act, and to sell equity securities held by the Company as treasury shares 8.
To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors as fide ned in section 724 of the Act for cash pursuant to the remuneration.
authority granted by the resolution numbered 11 above, as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotments Special business and sales of equity securities, provided that this power: To consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions as ordinary resolutions: a shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2014, except that the Company 9.
That the Company shall continue in being as an investment may before such expiry make offers or agreements which trust.
would or might require equity securities to be allotted or sold after such expiry and notwithstanding such expiry the 10.
That pursuant to Article 81 of the Companys Articles of Directors may allot and sell equity securities in pursuance of Association, the aggregate remuneration of the non-executive such offers or agreements: Directors excluding amounts payable under any other provision of the Articles shall not exceed the sum of 250,000 per b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities and or annum.
the sale of equity securities held in treasury for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 443,218 representing 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, of the Company at the date of this notice : and c shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities at a price of not less than the net asset value per share.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2012 65
