Insofar as the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts and venture capital trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC, revised in January 2009 is compatible with IFRS, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the guidance set out in the SORP.
b Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining Investment Company Limited, which are registered and operate in England and Wales.
c Presentation of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income In order to better re ect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and a capital nature has been presented alongside the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
d Segmental reporting The Directors are of the opinion that the Group is engaged in a single segment of business being investment business.
e Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised on an ex-dividend basis.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
Interest income is accounted for on an accruals basis.
Income from contractual rights is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable where the Investment Manager can reliably estimate the amount, pursuant to the terms of the agreement.
Income from contractual rights received comprise of a return of income and a return of capital based on the underlying cost of the contract and, accordingly, the return of income element is taken to the revenue account and the return of capital element is taken to the capital account.
These amounts are disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income within income from investments and gains losses on investments held at fair value through pro t or loss, respectively.
The useful life of the contractual rights will be determined by reference to the contractual arrangements, the planned mine life on commencement of mining and the underlying cost of the contractual rights will be revalued on a systematic basis using the units of production method over the life of the contractual rights which is estimated using available estimated proved and probable reserves speci cally associated with the mine.
The Investment Manager relies on public disclosures for information on proven and probable reserves from the operators of the mine.
Amortisation rates are adjusted on a prospective basis for all changes to estimates of the life of contractual rights and iron ore reserves.
These are disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income within gains losses on investments held at fair value through pro t or loss.
Option premium income is recognised as revenue and included in the revenue column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income unless the option has been written for the maintenance and enhancement of the Companys investment portfolio and represents an incidental part of a larger capital transaction, in which case any premia arising are allocated to the capital column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
When an option is closed out or exercised the gain or loss is accounted for as capital.
f Expenses All expenses, including finance costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses have been charged wholly to the revenue column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, except as follows: X expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of an investment are included within the cost of the investment.
Details of transaction costs on the purchases and sales of investments are disclosed in note 10 on page 49: X with effect from 1 January 2012, the investment management fee and finance costs have been allocated 75% to the capital column and 25% to the revenue column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in line with the Boards expected long term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income, respectively, from the investment portfolio: X expenses are treated as capital where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2012 43
