Board evaluation Audit & Management Engagement Committee In accordance with best corporate governance practice, your Board A separately chaired Audit & Management Engagement Committee recently undertook an evaluation of its effectiveness, facilitated by the Committee has been established and is made up of the an external adviser, BoardAlpha Limited.
The report concluded that independent Directors, including the Chairman of the Company.
the Board has the necessary skills, knowledge and commitment The Board considers that at least one member of the Committee appropriate to overseeing the management of the Company and has suf cient recent and relevant financial experience for it to safeguarding shareholders interests.
It also suggested a number of discharge its function effectively.
The Chairman of the Company is a best practice issues for the Board to consider in more depth over member of the Committee to enable him to be kept fully informed the coming months.
While these were primarily matters of good of any issues which may arise.
The terms of reference of this housekeeping, they also included a speci c recommendation re the Committee are available on request and on the Investment desirability of reviewing and benchmarking directors remuneration Managers website at www.
co. uk brwm under the which appears to be out of line with peers.
This will be undertaken Further Literature section and will also be available at each during the next financial year.
Delegation of responsibilities The Committee meets at least twice a year and, amongst other The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility: things, examines the effectiveness of the control systems.
The two planned meetings are held prior to the Board meetings to approve Management and administration the half yearly and annual results, including the valuation of any The management of the investment portfolio and the administration unquoted investments, and the Committee receives information of the Company have been delegated to the Investment Manager.
from the Investment Managers corporate audit and compliance The Investment Manager, operating under guidelines determined by departments.
The Committee does not consider that as an the Board, has direct responsibility for the decisions relating to the investment trust company it needs to hold an additional meeting, day to day running of the Company and is accountable to the Board although this is kept under review.
for the investment, financial and operating performance of the Company.
The Board has final investment authority on unquoted During the year the principal activities of the Audit & Management investments.
Custody and settlement services are provided by The Engagement Committee included: Bank of New York Mellon International Limited BNYM, a subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon.
X considering and recommending to the Board for approval the contents of the half yearly and annual financial statements and The Board has delegated the exercise of voting rights attaching to reviewing the external auditors report thereon: the securities held in the portfolio to the Investment Manager.
Details of the Investment Managers voting policy are set out X reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, independence on pages 22 and 23. and objectivity of the external auditor: Committees of the Board X reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the Nomination Committee audit and non-audit fees payable to the external auditor and the As the Board is small and comprises only non-executive terms of their engagement: Directors it ful ls the function of the Nomination Committee which will meet when necessary to select and propose suitable X reviewing and approving the external auditors plan and results candidates for appointment.
Should a vacancy occur or the Board for the financial year: decide to recruit new members, the Board will take into account the size, balance and pro le of the Board as a whole to identify any X reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting areas that need strengthening.
Due to the specialist nature of the policies: investment mandate, and the dif culty in nding new Directors with knowledge of the mining sector, the existing Directors will try to X ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems and identify suitable individuals from their range of contacts, although standards: and other sources, including external search consultants, may also be used as required.
X considering the remuneration of the Investment Manager and reviewing the terms of the investment management agreement.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2012 31
