Additional Shareholder Information Financial calendar Share price The timing of the announcement and publication of the Companys The Companys mid-market ordinary share price is quoted daily in results may normally be expected in the months shown below: The Financial Times and the Times under Investment Companies and in The Daily Telegraph under Investment Trusts.
The share February price is also available on the BlackRock Investment Management Annual results and final dividend for year announced.
UK Limited BlackRock website at www.
March ISIN SEDOL numbers Annual report and financial statements published.
The ISIN SEDOL numbers and mnemonic codes for the Companys shares are: April Ordinary Shares Annual General Meeting.
ISIN GB0005774855 SEDOL 0577485 Final dividend paid.
L Bloomberg code BRWM LN August Half yearly gures announced and half yearly financial report published.
Share dealing Investors wishing to purchase more shares in the Company or sell Interim dividend paid.
all or part of their existing holding may do so through a stockbroker.
Most banks also offer this service.
Dividend 2012 The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended For existing shareholders the Companys registrar, Computershare 31December 2012 is 14.00p per share.
Investor Services PLC, has both internet and telephone share dealing services.
To access the internet share dealing log on to Ex-dividend date shares transferred without the www.
The telephone share dealing dividend 6 March 2013 service is available on 0870 703 0084.
To use these services, you Record date last date for registering transfers to will need your shareholder reference number, which is detailed on receive the dividend 8 March 2013 your share certi cate.
Last date for registering DRIP instructions 11 April 2013 Dividend payment date 2 May 2013 Internet dealing The fee for this service is 1% of the value of each sale or purchase of shares subject to a minimum of 30.
Stamp Payment of dividends duty of 0.5% is payable on purchases.
Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to the first-named shareholder at their registered address.
Dividends may also be Telephone dealing The fee for this service will be 1% of the paid direct into a shareholders bank account via BACSTEL-IP value of the transaction plus 35.
Stamp duty of 0.5% is payable Bankers Automated Clearing Service Telecom Internet Protocol.
This may be arranged by contacting the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, through their secure website CREST www.
co. uk, or by telephone on 0870 707 1187, or The Companys shares may be held in CREST, an electronic system by completing the Mandate Instructions section on the reverse of for uncerti cated securities trading.
your dividend counterfoil and sending this to the Companys registrar, Computershare.
Tax vouchers will be sent to shareholders Private investors can continue to retain their share certi cates at their registered address, unless other instructions have been and remain outside the CREST system.
Private investors are able given, to arrive on the payment date.
to buy and sell their holdings in the same way as they did prior to the introduction of CREST, although there may be differences in Dividend reinvestment scheme DRIP dealing charges.
Shareholders may request that their dividends be used to purchase further shares in the Company.
Dividend reinvestment Electronic communications forms may be obtained from Computershare Investor Services PLC We encourage you to play your part in reducing our impact on the through their secure website www.
co. uk, or on environment and elect to be noti ed by email when your 0870 707 1187.
Shareholders who have already opted to have shareholder communications become available online.
This means their dividends reinvested do not need to reapply.
The last date you will receive timely, cost-effective and greener online annual for registering for this service for the forthcoming dividend is reports, half yearly financial reports and other relevant 11April 2013. documentation.
62 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc Shareholders who opt for this service will receive an e-mail Publication of net asset value portfolio analysis from Computershare with a link to the relevant section of the The net asset value NAV per share of the Company is calculated BlackRock website where the documents can be viewed and daily, with details of the Companys investments and performance downloaded.
Please submit your email address by visiting being published monthly.
You will require your shareholder reference number which you will nd on your share The daily NAV per share and monthly information are released certi cate or tax voucher.
through the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service and are available on the BlackRock website at You will continue to receive a printed copy of these reports if you www.
co. uk brwm and through the Reuters News have elected to do so.
Alternatively, if you have not submitted your Service under the code BLRKINDEX, on page 8800 on Topic 3 email address nor have elected to receive printed reports, we will ICV terminals and under BLRK on Bloomberg monthly write and let you know where you can view these reports online.
Electronic proxy voting Online access Shareholders are able to submit their proxy votes electronically via Other details about the Company are also available on the Computershares internet site at www.
com BlackRock website at www.
The financial using their shareholder reference number, control number and a statements and other literature are published on the website.
unique identi cation PIN which will be provided with voting Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the instructions and the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
CREST members who wish to appoint one or more proxies or give an instruction through the CREST electronic proxy appointment Shareholders can also manage their shareholding online by service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST using Investor Centre, Computershares secure website at manual.
More details are set out in the notes on the Form of Proxy www.
and the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
To access Computershares website you will need your shareholder Duration of the Company reference number SRN which can be found on paper or electronic Shareholders are given an opportunity at each Annual General communications you have previously received from Computershare.
Meeting to vote on an ordinary resolution to continue the life of the Listed below are the most frequently used features of the website.
Company for a further twelve months.
X Holding enquiry view balances, values, history, payments and Nominee code reinvestments.
Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the Company undertakes: X Payments enquiry view your dividends and other payment types.
X to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of shareholder communications, so long as an indication of X Address change change your registered address.
quantities has been provided in advance: X Bank details update choose to receive your dividend payment X to allow investors holding shares through a nominee company directly into your bank account instead of by cheque.
to attend general meetings, provided the correct authority from the nominee company is available: and X e-Comms sign-up choose to receive email noti cation when your shareholder communications become available instead of X that investors in the BlackRock Investment Trusts Savings Plan paper communications.
and ISA are automatically sent shareholder communications, including details of general meetings, together with a Form of X Outstanding payments reissue payments using the online Direction to facilitate voting and to seek authority to attend.
Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the necessary X Downloadable forms including dividend mandates, stock authority to underlying shareholders to attend the Companys transfer, dividend reinvestment and change of address forms.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2012 63 Additional Shareholder Information continued Savings Plan General enquiries The Company participates in the BlackRock Investment Trust Enquiries about the Company should be directed to: Savings Plan, which facilitates both regular monthly investments and occasional lump sum investments in the Companys ordinary The Secretary shares.
Shareholders who would like information on the Savings BlackRock World Mining Trust plc Plan should call BlackRock free on 0800 44 55 22.
12 Throgmorton Avenue London EC2N 2DL Stocks and shares Individual Savings Accounts ISA Telephone: 020 7743 3000 ISAs are a tax-ef cient method of investment and the Companys shares are eligible investments within the BlackRock Investment Enquiries about the Savings Plan or ISA should be directed to: Trust stocks and shares Individual Savings Account.
Investors currently have an annual ISA allowance of 11,280.
Details are Freepost RLTZ-KHUH-KZSB available from BlackRock by calling free on 0800 44 55 22.
BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited PO Box 9036 Shareholder enquiries Chelmsford CM99 2XD The Companys registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC.
Telephone: 0800 44 55 22 Certain details relating to your holding can be checked through the Computershare Investor Centre website.
As a security check, speci c information needs to be input accurately to gain access to an individuals account.
This includes your shareholder reference number, available from your share certi cate, tax voucher or other electronic communications you have previously received from Computershare.
The address of the Computershare website is www.
Alternatively, please contact the registrar on 0870 707 1187.
Changes of name or address must be noti ed in writing either through Computershares website, or to the registrar at: Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ 64 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
