Control of the risks identi ed, covering financial, operational, Socially responsible investment compliance and risk management, is embedded in the operations Investment trusts do not employ staff and accordingly have no of the Investment Manager and BNYM.
There is a monitoring and direct impact on social matters but can be signi cant investors in reporting process to review these controls, which has been in place the economies of the regions in which they invest.
The Company throughout the year under review and up to the date of this report, invests in mining companies around the world.
The Investment carried out by the Investment Managers corporate audit Managers evaluation procedures and financial analysis of the department.
This accords with the Financial Reporting Councils companies within the portfolio includes research and appraisal, and Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK also takes into account environmental policies and other business Corporate Governance Code formerly the Combined Code issues.
The Company invests primarily on financial grounds to meet known as the Turnbull guidance.
The Investment Manager reports to the Company on its review of The Investment Manager is supportive of the UK Stewardship internal controls, formally on a semi-annual basis and verbally at Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional each Board and Audit & Management Engagement Committee shareholders in respect of investee companies, and is voluntary meeting, and provides an annual report from the Investment and operates on a comply or explain basis.
The Investment Managers reporting accountants on the control policies and Managers approach to the UK Stewardship Code, and policies on procedures in operation.
The Audit & Management Engagement Socially Responsible Investment, are detailed on their website Committee also receives quarterly reports from BNYM on the www2.
com global home aboutus proxyvoting.
internal controls of its custodial operations, together with the opinion of their reporting accountants.
Bribery prevention policy The provision of bribes of any nature to third parties in order to gain The Board recognises that these control systems can only be a commercial advantage is prohibited and is a criminal offence.
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to The Board has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and a achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but not commitment to carry out business fairly, honestly and openly.
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and The Board takes its responsibility to prevent bribery by the relies on the operating controls established by the Investment Companys Investment Manager on its behalf very seriously and Manager and BNYM.
The Investment Manager prepares revenue BlackRock has anti-bribery policies and procedures in place which forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to are high level, proportionate and risk based.
The Companys service assess the Companys activities and review its performance.
providers have been contacted in respect of their anti-bribery The Board and the Investment Manager have agreed clearly policies and, where necessary, contractual changes are made to fide ned investment criteria, speci ed levels of authority and existing agreements in respect of anti-bribery provisions.
Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and investment valuations, are submitted to the Board Communication with shareholders at each meeting.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General The Company does not have its own internal audit function, as all Meeting sets out the business of the Meeting and any item not the administration is delegated to the Investment Manager.
of an entirely routine nature is explained in the Directors Report The Board monitors the controls in place through the Investment on pages 25 and 26.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting and Managers internal audit department and feels that there is related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days currently no need for the Company to have its own internal audit before the Meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for function although this matter is kept under review.
Financial reporting In addition, regular updates on performance are sent to The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the shareholders and the Investment Manager reviews the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements is set out on page 35, the activities at the Annual General Meeting, where the Chairman of the Report of the Independent Auditor on pages 36 and 37 and the Board and the Chairman of the Audit & Management Engagement Statement of Going Concern on page 23.
Committee and representatives of the Investment Manager are available to answer shareholders queries.
Proxy voting gures will be announced to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and will be made available on the Investment Managers website shortly after the Meeting.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2012 33
