Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued g Taxation Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the financial reporting date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the financial reporting date.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable pro ts from which the future reversal of the temporary differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the rates applicable to the legal jurisdictions in which they arise.
h Investments held at fair value through pro t or loss The Companys investments, including contractual rights, are classi ed as held at fair value through pro t or loss in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with its investment strategy.
All investments, including contractual rights, are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value through pro t or loss.
Purchases of investments are recognised on a trade date basis.
The sales of assets are recognised at the trade date of the disposal.
Proceeds are measured at fair value which will be regarded as the proceeds of sale less any transaction costs.
Contractual rights are recognised on the completion date, where a purchase of the rights is under a contract, and is initially measured at fair value excluding transaction costs.
The fair value of the financial investments is based on their quoted bid price at the financial reporting date, without deduction for the estimated selling costs.
Unquoted investments are valued by the Directors at fair value using International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
This policy applies to non current asset investments held by the Group.
The Directors engage an independent mining consultant to conduct a periodic valuation of the contractual rights and the fair value of the contractual rights is assessed with reference to relevant factors, which include, inter alia, production pro les, commodity prices and management representations.
The asset is reviewed regularly to ensure that the initial classi cation remains correct given the assets characteristics and the Groups investment policies.
The contractual rights are initially recognised using the transaction price as the best evidence of fair value at acquisition and are subsequently measured at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value of investments and on disposal of investments are recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The gains and losses from changes in fair value of contractual rights are taken to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and arise as a result of revaluation of the underlying cost of the contractual rights, changes in commodity prices and changes in estimates of proven and probable reserves speci cally associated with the mine.
In order to improve the disclosure of how companies measure the fair value of their financial investments, the disclosure requirements in IFRS 7 have been extended to include a fair value hierarchy.
The fair value hierarchy consists of the following three levels: Level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 valued by reference to valuation techniques using market observable inputs such as quoted prices: Level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
Under IFRS, the investment in the subsidiary is fair valued which is deemed to be the net asset value of the subsidiary.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through pro t or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through pro t or loss.
Also included within this heading are transaction costs in relation to the purchase or sale of investments.
i Other receivables and other payables Other receivables and other payables do not carry any interest and are short term in nature and are accordingly stated at their nominal value.
44 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
