Corporate Governance Statement continued The Directors retire by rotation at every third Annual General Directors liability insurance Meeting and any Director appointed to the Board since the previous The Company has maintained appropriate Directors Liability Annual General Meeting is also required to retire and seek election Insurance cover throughout the year, in respect of legal action by shareholders.
Any Director who is not considered by the Board against its Directors.
to be independent of the Investment Manager or who will have served on the Board for more than nine years will be subject to Boards responsibilities annual re-election.
The Board currently has five scheduled meetings each year and may have additional meetings to consider strategy and other issues.
The Directors retiring by rotation are Mr Barby and Mr Buchan.
Between these meetings there is regular contact with the Having served as Directors for over nine years, Mr Barby and Investment Manager.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for MrBuchan are also subject to annual re-election.
Mr Cheyne is the overall management of the Company.
It reserves to itself standing for election to the Board, having been appointed as a decisions relating to the determination of investment policy, any Director during the year.
The existing Directors identi ed Mr Cheyne change in investment strategy, strategic gearing policy, policy on the as a suitable candidate from their range of contacts and his buy back and issue of shares, whether to hold shares in treasury, appointment was fully debated by all of the Directors.
and entering into any material contracts.
The Board has considered the positions of Messrs Barby, Buchan The Board also sets investment parameters, such as the acquisition and Cheyne as part of the evaluation process and believes that it or disposal of substantial interests and the maximum amount that would be in the Companys best interests for the Directors to be can be invested in unquoted investments.
In addition, changes proposed for re-election election at the forthcoming Annual relating to the Groups capital structure, approval of circulars to General Meeting, given their material level of contribution.
The shareholders and listing particulars, relevant press releases and any Directors support a planned and progressive renewing of the Board.
signi cant change in accounting policies or practices must also be The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the approved by the Board.
A formal schedule of matters speci cally Board is well-balanced through the appointment of new Directors reserved for decision by the Board has been fide ned.
with the skills and experience necessary.
Directors must be able to demonstrate commitment to the Company, including in terms of The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form time.
and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Strategic issues and all operational matters of a material nature are The Board has considered provision B.
7.2 in the UK Code published determined by the Board.
in June 2010 recommending that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election.
The Board The Directors also have access to the advice and services of the believes that the current election system, with each Director being Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring re-elected to the Board at least every three years or re-elected that Board procedures are followed and that it complies with annually if they have served more than nine years, is suf cient, as applicable rules and regulations.
Where necessary, in the there could be risks in respect of continuity and stability on the furtherance of their duties, the Directors may seek independent Board with annual re-elections.
professional advice at the expense of the Company.
Directors training and induction The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he or she is proper accounting records which are suf cient to show and explain provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and the Companys transactions and which disclose with reasonable his duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In addition, a new accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Director will also spend some time with representatives of the which enable it to ensure that the financial statements comply with Investment Manager whereby he or she will become familiar with the Companies Act 2006.
It is the Boards responsibility to present the various processes which the Manager considers necessary for a balanced and understandable assessment, which extends to the performance of its duties and responsibilities to the Company.
interim and other price-sensitive public reports.
The Companys policy is to encourage Directors to keep up to date and attend training courses on matters which are directly relevant The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the to their involvement with the Company.
The Directors also receive Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and regular brie ngs from, amongst others, the auditor and Company detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Secretary regarding any proposed developments or changes in laws or regulations that could affect the Company and or the Directors.
30 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
