Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company is that of an investment trust company within the meaning of section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The principal activity of the subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining Investment Company Limited, is investment dealing.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and Company are set out below.
a Basis of preparation The Group and Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
The Groups financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2013, and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
None of these are expected to have a signi cant effect on the measurement of the amounts recognised in the financial statements of the Company.
However, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments issued in November 2009 will change the classi cation of financial assets, but is not expected to have an impact on the measurement basis of the financial assets since the majority of the Companys financial assets are measured at fair value through pro t or loss.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2015 deals with classi cation and measurement of financial assets and its requirements represent a signi cant change from the existing requirements in IAS 39 in respect of financial assets.
The standard contains two primary measurement categories for financial assets: at amortised cost and fair value.
A financial asset would be measured at amortised cost if it is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash ows, and the assets contractual terms give rise on speci ed dates to cash ows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal outstanding.
All other financial assets would be measured at fair value.
The standard eliminates the existing IAS 39 categories of held to maturity, available for sale and loans and receivables.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 but is not yet approved by the EU.
The Company does not plan to adopt this standard early.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective 1 January 2013 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
The changes introduced by IFRS 10 will require management to exercise signi cant judgement to determine which entities are controlled, and therefore are required to be consolidated by a parent.
The standard is not likely to have any impact on the Group.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective 1 January 2013 removes the option to account for jointly controlled entities JCEs using proportionate consolidation.
This is not applicable to the Group as it holds no interests in joint arrangements.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities effective 1 January 2013 now requires additional disclosures that relate to an entitys interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities.
The Board is currently reviewing the potential effect on the Groups and Companys financial statements.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective 1 January 2013 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
It does not change when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted.
The Board is currently assessing the impact that this standard will have on the financial position and performance.
42 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
