BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING Incorporated and registered in Guernsey with company number 44704 Notice is hereby given that a General Meeting the General Meeting of the voting members of BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company will be held at Anson Place, Mill Court, La Charroterie, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 1EJ, Channel Islands on Thursday 8 August 2013 at 10.00 a. m. to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of the Company.
Resolutions 1 to 8 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolution 9 will be proposed as a special resolution.
Ordinary Business: to be proposed as ordinary resolutions 1.
TO receive the Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 December 2012.
TO re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor to the Company, to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting to be held in 2014, under section 199 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended the Law and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration.
TO re-elect as a Director Mr Richard Crowder.
TO re-elect as a Director Mr Paul Meader.
TO re-elect as a Director Mr Jonathan Hooley.
TO re-elect as a Director Mr John Le Prevost.
TO re-elect as a Director Mr Andrew Dodd.
Special Business: to be proposed as an ordinary resolution 8.
THAT the Company be authorised, in accordance with section 315 1 a of the Law, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 316 of the Law of ordinary shares of no par value each, whether denominated in Sterling, Euros or US Dollars Shares, and to cancel such Shares or hold such Shares as treasury shares, provided that: i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99 per cent.
of each class of Shares in issue on the date on which this resolution is passed: ii the maximum price which may be paid for a Share shall be the higher of a an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotation for a Share of the relevant class on the relevant market for the five Business Days immediately preceding the day on which the Shares are purchased and b the higher of the price of the last independent trade and highest current bid on the London Stock Exchange when the purchase is carried out: iii the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 1 pence, 1 Euro cent or 1 US Dollar cent as the case may be: and iv unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the general meeting of the Company to be held in 2013, under section 199 of the Law, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
76 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued Special Business: to be proposed as a special resolution 9.
THAT the pre-emption rights granted to Shareholders pursuant to article 12 2 of the Articles of Incorporation of the Company the Articles be disapplied in respect of up to 500,000,000 Shares for a period concluding on 31 December 2014, unless such resolution is previously revoked by the Companys shareholders in general meeting.
For the purpose of this resolution, capitalised terms shall have the same meaning as set out in the Articles.
By order of the Board Registered Office: BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Anson Place Registered in Guernsey with registered number 44704.
Mill Court La Charroterie St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 1EJ Date: 30 April 2013 77 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued Notes: 1.
A shareholder will only be entitled to attend and vote at this General Meeting if they are registered as holders of Shares as at the close of business on Tuesday 6 August 2013 or, if the General Meeting is adjourned, as at 48 hours before the time of any adjourned General Meeting.
This record time is being set for voting because the procedures for updating the registers of members for each class of shares held in uncertificated form require a record time to be set for the purpose of determining entitlements to attend and vote at shareholder meetings.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the General Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to speak and vote instead of them.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude members from attending or voting at the General Meeting if they so wish.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
In accordance with the provisions of E. 2.1 of the UK Code of Corporate Governance it should be noted that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against each resolution.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed for use at the General Meeting.
The Form of Proxy should be completed in accordance with the instructions set out therein and sent, together with the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, so as to reach the Companys agent, for this purpose being, Anson Registrars Limited, Anson Place, Mill Court, La Charroterie, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 1EJ not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the General Meeting.
If the General Meeting falls to be adjourned because it is not quorate, it will be adjourned to the same time and place five Business Days later or to such other day and or time and or place as the Directors of the Company may determine, whereupon those shareholders then present in person, by their representative or by proxy, shall form the quorum.
In the event of any such adjournment the Company will announce the adjournment via a regulatory information service but no notification will be sent directly to shareholders.
Where there are joint registered holders of any shares such persons shall not have the right of voting individually in respect of such shares but shall elect one of their number to represent them and to vote whether in person or by proxy in their name.
In default of such election the person whose name stands first on the register of shareholders shall alone be entitled to vote.
78 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued 8.
On a poll votes may be given either personally or by proxy and a shareholder entitled to more than one vote need not use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the same way.
Any corporation which is a shareholder may by resolution of its board of Directors or other governing body authorise such person as it thinks fit to act as its representative at the General Meeting.
Any person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise on behalf of the corporation which he represents the same powers other than to appoint a proxy as that corporation could exercise if it were an individual shareholder.
As at 29 April 2013 the latest practicable date prior to the printing of this notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 572,217,717 ordinary shares of no par value, all carrying one vote each per share.
29,314,797 ordinary Sterling shares are held in treasury and therefore are not able to vote.
Copies of the following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday weekends and public holidays excluded and will be available for inspection at the place of the General Meeting for 15 minutes before and during the General Meeting itself: a a copy of the Companys Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 December 2012: b copies of the non-executive Directors appointment letters: and c the Articles of Incorporation.
79 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued Explanatory notes to the Notice of General Meeting At the General Meeting there are nine which shareholders will be asked to consider and, if thought fit, approve.
An explanation of each of these Resolutions is given below.
Resolutions 1 to 8 inclusive are proposed as ordinary resolutions.
An ordinary resolution requires more than 50 per cent.
of votes cast at the General Meeting relating to that resolution to be cast in favour of it for the resolution to be passed.
Resolution 9 is proposed as a special resolution.
A special resolution requires at least 75 per cent.
of votes cast at the General Meeting relating to that resolution to be cast in favour of the resolution for it to be passed.
Ordinary resolutions Resolution 1: Annual Report and Accounts For each financial year the Directors are required to present the Directors report, the audited accounts and the auditors reports to shareholders at a general meeting.
Shareholders are asked to receive the annual report and accounts of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2012.
The Law requires that the accounts and reports are laid before the General Meeting.
Resolution 2: Appointment and remuneration of the Auditors Following the previous general meeting of the Company the appointment of the Auditor to continue until the conclusion of the next general meeting to be held in 2013, under section 199 of the Law.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated that they are willing to continue to be the Companys Auditor for the next year.
You are asked to approve their re-appointment and to authorise the Directors of the Company to determine their remuneration.
Resolutions 3 to 7 inclusive : Re-election of Directors The Directors have resolved that they will all retire annually and that those wishing to continue to serve will submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders at the General Meeting.
Having considered the performance and contribution made by each of the Directors, the Board believes that each of them continues to perform effectively and with commitment to their roles and, as such, recommends their reelection.
Brief biographical details of the Directors seeking re-election can be found in the Annual Financial Report.
Resolution 8: Authority to make Market Purchases The Company has previously been granted authority to make market acquisitions of its ordinary shares to address, among other things, any imbalance in the supply of, and demand for, ordinary shares.
The current authority expires at the end of the General Meeting.
80 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued This Resolution proposes to renew the authority of the Company to make market acquisitions of up to a maximum of 14.99 per cent.
of each class of shares in issue as at the date of this resolution being passed.
The Directors wish to have the ability to make market purchases of the Companys Shares should such be considered desirable and this authority provides the flexibility to allow them to do so in the future.
The Directors will only exercise this authority when to do so would be in the best interests of the Company, and of its shareholders generally, and could be expected to result in an increase in the earnings per share of the Company.
In accordance with the Law, the Company may only make market purchases of its ordinary shares provided it satisfies the solvency test as detailed in the Law immediately after the shares are acquired.
A company satisfies the solvency test if: i it is able to pay its debts as they become due: and ii the value of its assets is greater than the value of its liabilities.
In connection with any purchase of the Companys ordinary shares, the Directors will therefore need to confirm that the solvency test will be satisfied immediately following such purchase being made.
The minimum price which may be paid for each class of ordinary share is 1 pence, 1 Euro cent or 1 US Dollar cent as the case may be.
The maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an ordinary share is the higher of: i an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotation for a Share of the relevant class on the relevant market on for the five Business Days immediately preceding the day on which the Shares are purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange when the purchase is carried out.
Any shares purchased under the renewed authority will either be cancelled or held in treasury.
Such decision will be made by the Directors at the time of the purchases.
As at the date of publication of this notice 29,314,797 ordinary Sterling shares are held by the Company in treasury.
The authority sought under this Resolution will expire at the end of the general meeting of the Company held in 2014 under section 199 of the Law, unless previously varied, revoked or renewed.
81 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued Special Resolutions Resolution 9: Disapplication of pre-emption rights Article 12 2 of the Articles of Incorporation requires that where ordinary shares are issued, or rights to subscribe for, or convert any securities into, ordinary shares are granted, wholly for cash, or where ordinary shares are sold out of treasury wholly for cash, either shareholder approval must be sought to make a non-pre-emptive offer or a preemptive offer must be made to all existing shareholders but allowing the Directors to make such provision as they think fit in relation to fractional entitlements and or certain overseas shareholders and or any other matters.
The Board believes that the ability to issue new ordinary shares on a non-pre-emptive basis is in the best interests of the Company as this affords considerable flexibility and a significant reduction in time and costs in effecting fundraisings.
If approved, the disapplication authority will allow the Board to issue up to a maximum number of 500,000,000 ordinary shares which, in accordance with the Listing Rules, could only be issued at or above net asset value per share unless offered pro rata to existing shareholders or pursuant to further authorisation by shareholders.
The authority sought under this Resolution will expire on 31 December 2014, unless such resolution is previously revoked by the Companys shareholders in general meeting.
