BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2012 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and applicable Guernsey law.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis except for the measurement at fair value of unquoted financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss.
The Financial Statements are presented in Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The following Standards or Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any impact on the amounts reported in these Financial Statements and is not expected to have any impact on future financial periods: IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements amendments to revise the way other comprehensive income is presented effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
The following Standards or Interpretations that are expected to affect the Company have been issued but not yet adopted by the Company are shown below.
Other standards or interpretations issued by the IASB IFRIC are not expected to affect the Company.
The Board has not yet assessed the impact of the standards below on the Company and will do so prior to the earliest period of adoption.
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards amendments resulting from annual improvements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures amendments relating to the offsetting of assets and liabilities effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures amendments requiring disclosures about the initial application of IFRS 9 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 or otherwise when IFRS 9 is first applied.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement revised November 2009 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 subject to EU endorsement.
46 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2012 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued a Basis of preparation continued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments accounting for financial liabilities and derecognition effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 subject to EU endorsement.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements amended by Investment Entities, effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles, effective for annual periods beginning on 1 January 2013.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements amendments resulting from Annual Improvements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures amendment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation amendments to application guidance on the offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation annual improvements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Improvements to IFRS 2009-2011 cycle contains several amendments to IFRS, which the IASB considers non-urgent but necessary.
The improvements comprise amendments that result in accounting changes for presentation, recognition or measurements purposes, as well as terminology or editorial amendments related to a variety of individual standards effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
No formal analysis has been completed on the impact of the adoption of any of the above standards or interpretations on the Financial Statements in the period of initial application.
