BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2012 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued b Going concern As described in Note 10, should the average 12 month discount at which the shares of any class trade to their net asset value exceed 5% of net asset value per share, the Company is obliged to offer a continuation vote to class shareholders.
The Company triggered its rolling 12 month discount floor provision for the Sterling and US Dollar share classes, by reference to the final NAV as at 31 December 2012 and for the Euro class as at 31 January 2013.
In accordance with the Articles of Incorporation of the Company, continuation resolutions were proposed for all three classes of shares by way of ordinary resolution at separate class meetings held on 17 April 2013 and the continuation resolutions for the Sterling and Euro Classes were passed.
The continuation resolution for the Dollar Class was not passed.
Therefore, the Directors will make proposals to Shareholders in the Dollar Class in accordance with the provisions of the Articles.
This has no impact on the Shareholders of the Sterling and Euro Classes.
The Company has adequate financial resources and as a consequence, the Directors believe the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial information.
c Taxation The Company has been granted exemption under the Income Tax Exempt Bodies Guernsey Ordinance, 1989 from Guernsey Income Tax, and is charged an annual fee of 600. d Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses relating to the Company are allocated across the three share classes proportionally based on their individual net asset values.
e Interest income Interest income is accounted for on an accruals basis.
f Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as call deposits and short term deposits readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value, together with bank overdrafts.
For the purposes of the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and deposits at bank, together with bank overdrafts.
