BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2012 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued h Foreign currency translation The Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Operating expenses in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date.
Investments in Euro and US Dollar share classes are initially recorded in their respective currencies and translated into the Companys functional currency at the reporting date.
All differences are taken to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
i Segment information For management purposes, the Company is organised into one business unit, and hence no separate segment information has been presented.
The Company determines that this operating segment is the investment in a fund of hedge funds incorporated in the Cayman Islands.
j Shares Sterling, Euro and US Dollar Ordinary shares have been classified as liabilities in accordance with IAS 32 because of the provisions contained in the Companys Articles of Incorporation as described in Note 10.
The Directors have been advised that this treatment does not result in the Shares being treated as a liability for the purpose of applying the solvency test set out in Section 527 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended.
2 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In the application of the Companys accounting policies, which are described in Note 1, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions, where applicable, about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Critical judgements in applying the Companys accounting policies The following are the critical judgements and estimates that the Directors have made in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Financial Statements.
