Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the One Hundred and 15 months from the passing of this resolution, Fifteenth Annual General Meeting of British Assets whichever is the earlier, unless previously Trust Public Limited Company will be held at revoked, varied or extended by the Company in Exchange House, Primrose Street, London a general meeting, save that the Company may EC2A 2NY on Tuesday, 29 January 2013 at at any time prior to the expiry of this authority 12 noon for the following purposes: make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require Securities to be allotted or granted after the expiry of such authority and Ordinary Business the Directors shall be entitled to allot or grant To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as Securities in pursuance of such an offer or Ordinary Resolutions: agreement as if such authority had not expired.
That the Report and Accounts for the year To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as ended 30 September 2012 be received.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the 12.
That, subject to the passing of resolution year ended 30 September 2012 be approved.
number 11 above, and in substitution for any existing power but without prejudice to the 3.
That a final dividend of 1.786 pence per exercise of any such power prior to the date Ordinary Share be declared.
hereof, the Directors of the Company be and 4.
That Ian Russell, who retires annually, be rethey are hereby generally empowered, pursuant elected as a Director.
to Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 the 5.
That James Long, who retires annually, be Act, to allot equity securities as defined in re-elected as a Director.
Section 560 of the Act, including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities 6.
That James MacLeod, who retires annually, be into ordinary shares held by the Company as re-elected as a Director.
treasury shares as defined in Section 724 of the 7.
That Jimmy West, who retires annually, be Act for cash pursuant to the authority given by re-elected as a Director.
resolution number 11 above as if Section 561 1 8.
That Lynn Ruddick, who retires annually, be reof the Act did not apply to any such allotment of elected as a Director.
equity securities, provided that this power: 9.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as a expires at the conclusion of the next annual Auditor.
general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on the expiry 10.
That the Directors be authorised to determine of 15 months from the passing of this the Auditors remuneration.
resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that 11.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, the Company may, before such expiry, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such make an offer or agreement which would or authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors of might require equity securities to be allotted the Company be and are hereby generally and after such expiry and the Directors may allot unconditionally authorised in accordance with equity securities in pursuance of any such Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to offer or agreement as if the power conferred exercise all the powers of the Company to allot hereby had not expired: and shares in the Company and to grant rights to b shall be limited to the allotment of equity subscribe for or to convert any securities into securities up to an aggregate nominal value shares in the Company Securities provided 3,638,903 being approximately 5 per cent that such authority shall be limited to the of the nominal value of the issued share allotment of shares and the grant of rights in capital of the Company, as at 26 November respect of shares with an aggregate nominal 2012. value of up to 7,277,807, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next annual 13.
That, in substitution for any existing authority general meeting of the Company after the but without prejudice to the exercise of any passing of this resolution or on the expiry of such authority prior to the date hereof, the 54 British Assets Trust plc Company be and is hereby generally and Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the above unconditionally authorised, pursuant to and in meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, accordance with section 701 of the Companies speak and vote instead of him provided that, if more than one Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases proxy is appointed, each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
A proxy need not be a member of within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act the Company.
of fully paid ordinary shares of 25 pence each in 2.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose the capital of the Company ordinary shares shares are held on their behalf by another person and who either for retention as treasury shares for future have been nominated to receive communications from the reissue, resale, transfer or cancellation, Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies provided that: Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the member who holds a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have shares hereby authorised to be purchased is someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, 43,637,731 or if less, 14.99 per cent of the they may have a right under such an agreement to give number of ordinary shares in issue instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise immediately prior to the passing of this of voting rights.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the above meeting.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a b the minimum price excluding expenses member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To which may be paid for each ordinary share be effective, the form of proxy, duly executed, must be lodged is 25 pence: at the address shown on the form of proxy i by 12 noon on 25 January 2013 or, ii in respect of an adjourned meeting, no c the maximum price excluding expenses later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the which may be paid for each ordinary share holding of that adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll shall not be more than the higher of: taken subsequent to the date of the meeting or an adjourned meeting, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for i 5 per cent above the average closing the taking of the poll.
price on the London Stock Exchange of 4.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities an ordinary share over the five business Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those days immediately preceding the date of holders of Ordinary Shares entered on the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 25 January 2013 purchase: and or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the Register ii the higher of the last independent trade of Members as at 6.00 pm two days excluding non-working and the highest current independent bid days before any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend, speak or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of on the London Stock Exchange: and Ordinary Shares registered in their names at that time.
Changes to the entries on the Register of Members after 6.00 d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed pm on 25 January 2013 or, in the event that the meeting is by the Company in a general meeting, the adjourned, on the Register of Members as at 6.00 pm two authority hereby conferred shall expire at the days excluding non-working days before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the conclusion of the Companys next annual rights of any person to attend, speak or vote at the meeting, general meeting or on 29 July 2014 notwithstanding any provisions in any enactment, the Articles whichever is the earlier, save that the of Association of the Company or other instrument to the contrary.
Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares 5.
Any person holding 3 per cent of the total voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as under such authority which will or might be his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party completed or executed wholly or partly after complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the the expiration of such authority and may Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
make a purchase of ordinary shares 6.
Members of the Company may require the Company to pursuant to any such contract.
publish, on its website without payment, a statement which is also passed to the Companys auditor setting out any By order of the Board matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, G R Hay Smith including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
The Company will be required to do so once it has received such Secretary requests from members representing at least 5 per cent of the 80 George Street total voting rights of the Company or at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Edinburgh EH2 3BU Company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in 26 November 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued writing and must state the members full name and address do so by using the procedures described in the CREST and be sent to 80 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3BU.
Manual and by logging on to www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored 7.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including members, and those CREST members who have appointed a information required by section 311A of the Companies Act voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor 2006, is available from www.
or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Under section 338 of the Companies Act 2006, a member or 13.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the members meeting the qualification criteria set out at note 10 CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a below may, subject to certain conditions, require the Company CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in to circulate to members notice of a resolution which may accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the specifications, and must contain the information required for meeting.
such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The The conditions are that: i the resolution must not, if passed, message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : ii the previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be resolution must not be defamatory of any person, frivolous or transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrar vexatious: and iii the request: a may be in hard copy form or ID RA19 no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days in electronic form: b must identify the resolution of which before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For this notice is to be given by either setting out the resolution in full purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as or, if supporting a resolution sent by another member, clearly determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the identifying the resolution which is being supported: c must be CREST Application Host from which the Companys registrar authenticated by the person or persons making it: and d is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the must be received by the Company not later than six weeks manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of before the date of the meeting.
instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee by other means.
Under section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, a member or members meeting the qualification criteria set out at note 10 14.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST below, may, subject to certain conditions, require the sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Company to include in the business to be dealt with at the Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special meeting a matter other than a proposed resolution which may procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal properly be included in the business a matter of business.
system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation The conditions are that: i the matter of business must not be to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility defamatory of any person, frivolous or vexatious: and ii the of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST request: a may be in hard copy form or in electronic form: b member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, must identify the matter of business by either setting it out in or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that full or, if supporting a statement sent by another member, his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such clearly identify the matter of business which is being action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is supported: c must be accompanied by a statement setting transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular out the grounds for the request: d must be authenticated by time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where the person or persons making it: and e must be received by applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers the Company not later than six weeks before the date of the are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST meeting.
Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
In order to be able to exercise the members right to require: i circulation of a resolution to be proposed at the meeting see 15.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction note 8 : or a matter of business to be dealt with at the meeting in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the see note 9, the relevant request must be made by: a a Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. member or members having a right to vote at the meeting and 16.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
The holding at least 5 per cent of the total voting rights of the Directors letters of appointment will be available for 15 Company: or b at least 100 members having a right to vote minutes prior to, and during, the Annual General Meeting.
at the meeting and holding, on average, at least 100 of paid up share capital.
As at 5.00 pm on 26 November 2012 being the latest applicable date prior to the publication of this notice, the 11.
Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company Companys issued share capital comprised 291,112,282 must answer any question relating to the business being dealt Ordinary Shares of 25p each.
Every Member holding Ordinary with at the meeting and put by a member attending the Shares shall have one vote for every Ordinary Share held by meeting unless: them and therefore the total number of voting rights in the a answering the question would interfere unduly with the Company at 5.00 pm on 26 November 2012 was 291,112,282. preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: 18.
Members who have general queries about the Annual General Meeting should not use any electronic address to b the answer has already been given on a website in the communicate with the Company but should call the form of an answer to a question: or Companys registrars on 0871 384 2462.
Calls to this c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Lines open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
The Companys registrars overseas helpline 12.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies number is 44 121 415 7047. through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may 56 British Assets Trust plc Corporate Information Directors Brokers Lynn C Ruddick, Chairman Cenkos Securities Limited James M Long, TD 6.7.
8 Tokenhouse Yard ` James S MacLeod London EC2R 7AS Ian S M Russell Jimmy G West Solicitors Dickson Minto WS Company Secretary 16 Charlotte Square Gordon R Hay Smith, CA Edinburgh EH2 4DF Investment Managers Bankers F&C Investment Business Limited JPMorgan Chase Bank 80 George Street 125 London Wall Edinburgh EH2 3BU London EC2Y 5AJ Auditor Company Number Ernst & Young LLP SC 3721 1 More London Place London SE1 2AF Chairman of the Management Engagement and Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee ` Chairman of the Audit Committee Senior Independent Director MLG Edinburgh 14576 Registered Office 80 George Street Edinburgh EH2 3BU Tel: 0207 628 8000 Fax: 0131 225 2375 Registrars Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Registrars Shareholder Helpline: 0871 384 2462 Registrars Broker Helpline: 0906 559 6025 Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephone providers costs may vary.
Calls to this number are charged at 1 per minute from a BT landline.
