qxp:BT PLC 08 18 5 12 18:12 Page 92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES i Accounting basis evenly over the period to which the charges relate.
Turnover from As used in these financial statements and associated notes, the term calls is recognised at the time the call is made over the companys company refers to British Telecommunications plc BT plc.
separate financial statements of the company are presented as Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for required by the Companies Act 2006.
The separate financial access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, are statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally recognised as turnover as the service is provided.
Turnover arising Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
from the interconnection of voice and data trafc between other The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit and under the historical cost convention as modied by the across the companys network.
revaluation of certain financial instruments at fair value.
Balances with other companies in the BT Group plc group for 2011 Equipment sales have been disclosed separately between amounts due to and from Turnover from the sale of peripheral and other equipment is parent and other group undertakings and have also been reclassied recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership between debtors and other creditors: amounts falling due within one are transferred to the buyer, which is normally the date the year on the balance sheet to reect the cancellation of offsetting equipment is delivered and accepted by the customer.
Within debtors, amounts owed by parent and group undertakings have reduced by 1,371m with an equivalent decrease Long-term contractual arrangements in amounts owed to group and parent undertakings within other Turnover from long-term contractual arrangements is recognised creditors.
based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of The analysis of 2011 derivative financial instruments between completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to current and non-current assets and liabilities has been amended to the nature of the contract.
If the performance pattern is other than decrease current and increase non-current amounts by 66m and straight line, turnover is recognised as services are provided, usually 222m respectively to reect the maturity dates on a comparable on an output or consumption basis.
For xed price contracts, including basis with the current year.
contracts to design and build software solutions, turnover is recognised Neither of these amendments had any impact on the results for by reference to the stage of completion, as determined by the the year, net assets or equity shareholders funds.
proportion of costs incurred relative to the estimated total contract costs, or other measures of completion, such as the achievement of Exemptions contract milestones and customer acceptance.
In the case of time and As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the materials contracts, turnover is recognised as the service is rendered.
companys profit and loss account has not been presented.
Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended arrangements are expensed as incurred.
An element of costs incurred 31 March 2012 contain a consolidated cash flow statement.
in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of the contract Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the exemption is deferred and recorded within debtors due after more than one year.
in FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements, not to present its own cash ow These costs are then recognised in the profit and loss account on a statement.
straight line basis over the remaining contractual term, unless the The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended pattern of service delivery indicates a different prole is appropriate.
31 March 2012 contain related party disclosures.
Consequently, the These costs are directly attributable to specic contracts, relate to company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8, Related future activity, will generate future economic benets and are assessed Party Disclosures, not to disclose transactions with other members for recoverability on a regular basis.
The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended expected contract turnover and costs, as well as reliable measurement 31 March 2012 contain financial instruments disclosures which comply of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the financial with FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Consequently, the outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable certainty, no company is exempted from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29 in attributable profit is recognised.
In such circumstances, turnover is respect of its financial instruments.
recognised equal to the costs incurred to date, to the extent that such turnover is expected to be recoverable.
Recognised turnover and ii Turnover profits are subject to revisions during the contract if the assumptions Turnover represents the fair value of the consideration received or regarding the overall contract outcome are changed.
The cumulative receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in the period in which discounts and sales taxes.
Turnover from the rendering of services such revisions become likely and can be estimated.
Where the actual and sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable that the and estimated costs to completion exceed the estimated turnover for economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the a contract, the full contract life loss is recognised immediately.
company, and the amount of turnover and associated costs can be Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate measured reliably.
Where the company acts as an agent in a elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, transaction it recognises turnover net of directly attributable costs.
turnover is recognised for each element as if it were an individual contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between Services the separate elements on the basis of relative fair value and the Turnover arising from separable installation and connection services appropriate turnover recognition criteria are applied to each element is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Turnover from the as described above.
rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised 92 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Parent company accounting policies 07 329013 Report of Independent Auditors.
qxp:BT PLC 08 18 5 12 18:12 Page 93 iii Research and development Included within the cost of network infrastructure and equipment are Research expenditure is recognised in the profit and loss account in direct and indirect labour costs, materials, and directly attributable the period in which it is incurred.
Depreciation is provided on tangible xed assets on a including the cost of internally developed software, is recognised in straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, so as to the profit and loss account in the period in which it is incurred unless write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking into it is probable that economic benets will ow to the company from account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is the asset being developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably not depreciated.
measured and technical feasibility can be demonstrated.
Capitalisation The lives assigned to principal categories of tangible xed assets ceases when the asset being developed is ready for use.
Research and are: development costs include direct and indirect labour, materials and Land and buildings directly attributable overheads.
Freehold buildings 40 years Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of iv Leases lease or 40 years, The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a whichever is the shorter lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires Network infrastructure and equipment an assessment of whether the fullment of the arrangement is Transmission equipment: dependent on the use of a specic asset or assets and whether the Duct 40 years arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
Cable 3 to 25 years Leases of tangible xed assets where the company holds Fibre 5 to 20 years substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years as finance leases.
Finance lease assets are capitalised at the Payphones and other network equipment 2 to 20 years commencement of the lease term at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
Other The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years respect of future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest Software 2 to 10 years method.
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of held by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over useful lives are reassessed annually, and if necessary, changes are the period of the lease.
v Foreign currencies viii Impairment of xed assets and goodwill Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional Fixed assets and goodwill are tested for impairment if events or currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the changes in circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the that the carrying amount might not be recoverable.
Goodwill is also settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary reviewed for impairment at the end of the first financial year after its assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end initial recognition.
exchange rates are recognised in the profit and loss account.
When an impairment test is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of the net present value of the vi Goodwill expected future cash ows value in use of the continued use of the Goodwill arising from the purchase of businesses represents the asset, and the fair value less cost to sell.
Impairment losses are excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair recognised in the profit and loss account.
value of the identiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill is amortised on a straight line basis from the time of ix Investments in subsidiary undertakings acquisition over its useful economic life.
The economic life is normally Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost and presumed to be a maximum of 20 years.
reviewed for impairment if there are indicators that the carrying value If a business is subsequently sold, the appropriate unamortised may not be recoverable.
goodwill is included in the profit and loss account in the period of disposal as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
x Stocks Stocks mainly comprise items of equipment held for sale or rental and vii Tangible xed assets consumable items.
Tangible xed assets are stated at historical cost, less accumulated Equipment and consumable items are stated at the lower of cost depreciation and any impairment losses.
On disposal of tangible xed and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for obsolescence.
assets, the difference between the sale proceeds and the net book Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis.
value at the date of disposal is recorded in the profit and loss account.
Parent company accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 93 07 329013 Report of Independent Auditors.
qxp:BT PLC 08 18 5 12 18:12 Page 94 xi Redundancy costs xiv Taxation including deferred tax Redundancy or leaver costs are payable when employment is Current income tax is calculated based on tax laws enacted or terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Full provision is accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The made for deferred taxation on all timing differences which have company recognises redundancy or leaver costs when it is arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets demonstrably committed to the affected employees leaving the are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not company.
that there will be sufficient taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
The deferred tax balances are not xii Post retirement benets discounted.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are The companys obligation in respect of dened benefit pension plans expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of liability settled, based upon tax rate and laws that have been enacted future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value using a rate which is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit xv Dividends rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the year in which companys obligations, The calculation is performed by a qualied the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The net obligation or dividends are recognised when they are paid: final dividends when asset recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the authorised in general meetings by shareholders.
dened benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets.
The profit and loss account charge is allocated between an xvi Provisions operating charge and net finance expense or income.
The operating Provisions are recognised when the company has a present legal or charge reects the increase in the dened benefit obligation resulting constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that from pension earned by active employees in the current period.
The an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and net finance charge reects the unwinding of the discount applied to the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by the liabilities of the plan, offset by the expected return on the assets discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that of the plan, based on conditions prevailing at the start of the year.
reects current market assessments of the time value of money and Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period the risks specic to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions in which they occur and are presented in the reconciliation of are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at movement in equity shareholders funds.
amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease The company also operates dened contribution pension schemes provisions have been measured at the lower of the cost to full the and the profit and loss account charge represents the contributions contract or the cost to exit it.
xvii Financial instruments xiii Share-based payments Financial assets The ultimate parent undertaking, BT Group plc, operates a number Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss equity settled share-based arrangements, as detailed in note 20 to A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired principally the BT plc consolidated financial statements, under which the for the purpose of selling in the short-term held for trading or if company receives services from employees as consideration for so designated by management.
Financial assets held in this category equity instruments of BT Group plc.
Equity settled share-based are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value, with payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non changes in value recognised in the profit and loss account.
Any direct market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant, but transaction costs are recognised immediately in the profit and loss including any market-based performance criteria and the impact of account.
non-vesting conditions for example the requirement for employees to save.
The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised on Loans and receivables a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the companys Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or estimate of the options or shares that will eventually vest and determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market other adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair than those for which the company may not recover substantially all value is measured using either the Binomial options pricing model or of its initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, Monte Carlo simulations, whichever is most appropriate to the award.
which are classied as available-for-sale.
Loans and receivables are Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest into account to determine the fair value of equity instruments granted.
method, with changes in carrying value recognised in the profit and In the case that an award or option does not vest as a result of a loss account in the line which most appropriately reects the nature failure to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control of the item or transaction.
of either counterparty, this is accounted for as a cancellation.
Cancellations must be treated as accelerated vesting and all remaining Fixed asset investments future charges are immediately recognised.
As the requirement to Fixed asset investments are stated at cost net of permanent save under an employee sharesave arrangement is a non-vesting diminution in value.
condition, employee cancellations must be treated as an accelerated vesting.
94 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Parent company accounting policies 07 329013 Report of Independent Auditors.
qxp:BT PLC 08 18 5 12 18:12 Page 95 Available-for-sale financial assets profit and loss account in net finance expense.
Derivative financial Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are instruments are classied as current assets or current liabilities where either specically designated in this category or not classied in they have a maturity period within 12 months.
Where derivative any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are financial instruments have a maturity period greater than 12 months, initially recognised at fair value plus direct transaction costs and then they are classied within either xed assets or creditors falling due re-measured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, with after more than one year.
unrealised gains and losses except for changes in exchange rates for Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment losses, which are any resultant gain or loss depends upon the nature of the hedge.
recognised in the profit and loss account recognised in equity until To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be the financial asset is derecognised, at which time the cumulative prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly gain or loss previously recognised in equity is taken to the profit and effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested loss account.
for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in which the hedge remains in operation.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when Debtors the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or no longer Financial assets within debtors are initially recognised at fair value, qualies for hedge accounting or the company chooses to end the which is usually the original invoiced amount, and are subsequently hedge relationship.
The group designates certain derivatives as either carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less cash ow hedges or fair value hedges.
provisions made for doubtful debts.
Provisions are made specically where there is evidence of a risk of non payment, taking into account Cash ow hedges ageing, previous losses experienced and general economic conditions.
When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly Cash probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the Cash includes cash in hand and bank deposits repayable on demand.
derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or liabilities, the associated Impairment of financial assets cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the The company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial profit and loss account in the same period or periods during which asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
Where there is the hedged transaction affects the profit and loss account.
Any objective evidence that an impairment loss has arisen on assets ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a recognised asset or carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is reduced with the liability is recognised immediately in the profit and loss.
loss being recognised in the profit and loss account.
The impairment loss is measured as the difference between that assets carrying Fair value hedges amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or unrecognised rm commitments, the change in fair value of the Financial liabilities derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in Creditors the same line in the profit and loss account, together with any Financial liabilities within creditors are initially recognised at fair changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, and attributable to the hedged risk.
subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of currency Loans and other borrowings instruments designated as hedges of net investments in a foreign Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus operation are taken to shareholders equity on consolidation to the directly attributable transaction costs.
Loans and other borrowings extent that the hedges are deemed effective.
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective Any ineffectiveness arising on a hedge of a net investment in a interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge relationship, are foreign operation is recognised in net finance expense.
revalued to reect the fair value movements on the hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The resultant Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation of the published standards adopted in the year ended 31 March 2012 hedge, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
The following amended standards and interpretations were adopted in 2012.
They have had no significant impact on the companys Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting results or financial position for the current or prior years but may The company uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce impact the accounting for future transactions or arrangements.
exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The company UITF Abstract 47 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial Instruments trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge Amendments to FRS 2010. accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are classied as held for trading and are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Parent company accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 95
