06 329013 Notes to the Con Financial Statements.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements continued The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in note 16.
Provisions and contingent liabilities 3. significant accounting policies As disclosed in note 18, the groups provisions principally relate to obligations arising from property rationalisation programmes, Revenue restructuring programmes, claims and litigation and regulatory Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or risks.
receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of Under our property rationalisation programmes we have discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue from the rendering of services identied a number of surplus properties.
Although efforts are and sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable that the being made to sub-let this space, this is not always possible.
economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the Estimates have been made of the cost of vacant possession and of group and the amount of revenue and associated costs can be any shortfall arising from any sub-lease income being lower than measured reliably.
Where the group acts as an agent in a the lease costs.
Any such shortfall is recognised as a provision.
transaction, it recognises revenue net of directly attributable costs.
In respect of claims, litigation and regulatory risks, the group provides for anticipated costs where an outow of resources is Services considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the Revenue arising from separable installation and connection services likely outcome.
The prices at which regulated services are charged is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue from the are often regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised by regulators.
Estimates are used in assessing the likely value of the evenly over the period to which the charges relate.
For all risks, the ultimate liability may vary from the calls is recognised at the time the call is made over the groups amounts provided and will be dependent upon the eventual network.
Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges outcome of any settlement.
for access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, The group exercises judgement in measuring the exposures to are recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue contingent liabilities see note 29 through assessing the likelihood arising from the interconnection of voice and data trafc between that a potential claim or liability will arise and in quantifying the other telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of possible range of financial outcomes.
transit across the groups network.
Current and deferred income tax Equipment sales The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to Revenue from the sale of peripheral and other equipment is complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership and regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining the are transferred to the buyer, which is normally the date the liability for the tax to be paid on our past profits which we recognise equipment is delivered and accepted by the customer.
We believe the estimates, assumptions and judgements are reasonable but this can involve complex Long-term contractual arrangements issues which may take a number of years to resolve.
The final Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements is recognised determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different from the based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of estimates reected in the financial statements and may result in the completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to recognition of an additional tax expense or tax credit in the income the nature of the contract.
If the performance pattern is other than statement.
straight line, revenue is recognised as services are provided, usually Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management on an output or consumption basis.
For xed price contracts, judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In including contracts to design and build software solutions, revenue particular, judgement is used when assessing the extent to which is recognised by reference to the stage of completion, as deferred tax assets should be recognised with consideration given determined by the proportion of costs incurred relative to the to the timing and level of future taxable income.
estimated total contract costs, or other measures of completion The value of the groups income tax assets and liabilities are such as the achievement of contract milestones and customer disclosed on the balance sheet on page 37.
The carrying value of acceptance.
In the case of time and materials contracts, revenue is the groups deferred tax assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 10. recognised as the service is rendered.
Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual Goodwill arrangements are expensed as incurred.
An element of costs The recoverable amount of cash generating units has been incurred in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations the contract is deferred and recorded within non-current assets.
require the use of estimates, including managements expectations These costs are then recognised in the income statement on a of future revenue growth, operating costs, profit margins and straight line basis over the remaining contractual term, unless the operating cash ows for each cash generating unit.
pattern of service delivery indicates a different prole is The carrying value of goodwill and the key assumptions used in appropriate.
These costs are directly attributable to specic performing the annual impairment assessment are disclosed in contracts, relate to future activity, will generate future economic note 12. benets and are assessed for recoverability on a regular basis.
The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of Providing for doubtful debts total expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable BT provides services to consumer and business customers, mainly measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the on credit terms.
We know that certain debts due to us will not be financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable paid through the default of a small number of our customers.
certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such Estimates, based on our historical experience, are used in circumstances, revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred to determining the level of debts that we believe will not be collected.
date, to the extent that such revenue is expected to be recoverable.
These estimates include such factors as the current state of the Recognised revenue and profits are subject to revisions during the economy and particular industry issues.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 41 06 329013 Notes to the Con Financial Statements.
qxp:BT PLC 07 18 5 12 18:09 Page 42 3. significant accounting policies continued Included within the cost for network infrastructure and equipment contract if the assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome are direct and indirect labour, materials and directly attributable are changed.
The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is overheads.
Depreciation is provided on property, plant and recorded in the period in which such revisions become likely and can equipment on a straight line basis from the time the asset is be estimated.
Where the actual and estimated costs to completion available for use, so as to write off the assets cost over the exceed the estimated revenue for a contract, the full contract life estimated useful life taking into account any expected residual loss is recognised immediately.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: Multiple element arrangements Land and buildings Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate Freehold buildings 40 years elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of revenue is recognised for each element as if it were an individual lease or 40 years, contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between the whichever is the shorter separate elements on the basis of relative fair value and the Network infrastructure and other equipment appropriate revenue recognition criteria are applied to each Transmission equipment: element as described above.
Duct 40 years Cable 3 to 25 years Retirement benets Fibre 5 to 20 years The groups obligation in respect of dened benefit pension plans is Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of Payphones and other network future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service equipment 2 to 20 years to date.
Other That benefit is discounted to determine its present value using a Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years rate which is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of of the groups obligations.
The calculation of the obligation is the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and performed by a qualied actuary using the projected unit credit useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are method.
The net obligation or asset recognised in the balance sheet recognised prospectively.
is the present value of the dened benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets.
Intangible assets The income statement expense is allocated between an Identiable intangible assets are recognised when the group operating charge and net finance expense or income.
The operating controls the asset, it is probable that future economic benets charge reects the increase in the dened benefit obligation attributable to the asset will ow to the group and the cost of the resulting from the pension benefit earned by active employees in asset can be reliably measured.
All intangible assets, other than the current period.
The net finance expense reects the unwinding goodwill and indefinite lived assets, are amortised over their useful of the discount applied to the liabilities of the plan, offset by the economic life.
The method of amortisation reects the pattern in expected return on the assets of the plan, based on conditions which the assets are expected to be consumed.
If the pattern prevailing at the start of the year.
cannot be determined reliably, the straight line method is used.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are presented in the group statement of Goodwill comprehensive income.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the The group also operates dened contribution pension plans and fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets the income statement expense represents the contributions payable including intangible assets of the acquired subsidiary.
Computer software Property, plant and equipment Computer software comprises computer software licences Property, plant and equipment are included in the financial purchased from third parties, and also the cost of internally statements at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and any developed software.
Computer software licences purchased from impairment losses.
On disposal of property, plant and equipment, third parties initially recorded at cost.
Costs directly associated with the difference between the sale proceeds and the net book value at the production of internally developed software, where it is the date of disposal recognised in other operating income in the probable that the software will generate future economic benets, income statement.
are recognised as intangible assets.
Telecoms licences Licence fees paid to governments, which permit telecoms activities to be operated for dened periods, are initially recorded at cost and amortised from the time the network is available for use to the end of the licence period.
Brands and customer relationships Intangible assets acquired through business combinations are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Assumptions are used in estimating the fair values of acquired intangible assets and include managements estimates of revenue and profits to be generated by the acquired businesses.
42 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 06 329013 Notes to the Con Financial Statements.
qxp:BT PLC 07 18 5 12 18:09 Page 43 3. significant accounting policies continued Accounting for subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, known Estimated useful economic lives as the parent.
Control is the power to govern the financial and The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its categories of intangible assets are as follows: activities generally accompanied by a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Non-controlling interests in the net Computer software 2 to 10 years assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identied separately from the Telecommunication licences 2 to 5 years groups equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amounts of Brands, customer relationships and those interests at the date of the original business combination and technology 3 to 15 years non-controlling share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Subscriber acquisition costs The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the Subscriber acquisition costs are expensed as incurred, unless they year are consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
meet the criteria for capitalisation, in which case they are All intra-group transactions including any gains or losses, balances, capitalised and amortised over the shorter of the expected income or expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
customer life or contractual period.
When the group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of Provisions the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any nonan outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and controlling interests.
the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that Interests in associates and joint ventures reects current market assessments of the time value of money and An associate is an entity over which another entity has significant the risks specic to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions inuence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at venture.
significant inuence is the power to participate in the amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease financial and operating policy decisions of an entity but is not provisions have been measured at the lower of the cost to full the control or joint control over those policies.
A joint venture is an contract or the cost to exit it.
entity that is jointly controlled by two or more entities.
Joint control Current and deferred income tax is the contractually agreed sharing of control over an economic Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted activity, and exists only when the strategic financial and operating or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of where the companys subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures the parties sharing control.
operate and generate taxable income.
The group periodically Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in recognised at cost.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation, and the groups share of the net fair value of the identiable assets, group establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of the liabilities and contingent liabilities of an associate or joint venture at amounts expected to be paid to tax authorities.
the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill, which is included Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect within the carrying amount of the investment.
Subsequent to of temporary differences between the carrying amount of the acquisition, the carrying value of the groups investment in groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred tax associates and joint ventures includes the groups share of post liabilities are, where permitted, offset against deferred tax assets acquisition reserves.
The income statement reects the groups within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group.
Any share of the results of operations after tax of the associate or joint remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis venture.
of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there Business combinations will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary method of accounting.
The consideration transferred is measured at difference can be utilised.
fair value, which is the aggregate of the fair values of the assets Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed and the equity apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, instruments issued in exchange for control of the acquiree.
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively Acquisition-related costs are generally expensed as incurred.
The enacted by the balance sheet date.
acquirees identiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their Basis of consolidation fair value at the acquisition date.
The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and of British Telecommunications plc the company and its measured at cost representing the excess of the aggregate of the subsidiaries, and they incorporate its share of the results of consideration, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the associates and joint ventures using the equity method of acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity accounting.
interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the fair values of the identiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
Impairment of non-financial assets Intangible assets with nite useful lives and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 43 06 329013 Notes to the Con Financial Statements.
qxp:BT PLC 07 18 5 12 18:09 Page 44 3. significant accounting policies continued probable that economic benets will ow to the group from the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment test asset being developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to measured and technical feasibility can be demonstrated.
the higher of the net present value of the expected future cash Capitalisation ceases when the asset being developed is ready for ows value in use of the relevant cash generating unit and the fair use.
Research and development costs include direct and indirect value less cost to sell.
labour, materials and directly attributable overheads.
Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are Leases reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Impairment losses are The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a recognised in the income statement.
If a cash generating unit is lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an impaired, provision is made to reduce the carrying amount of the assessment of whether the fullment of the arrangement is related assets to their estimated recoverable amount, normally as a dependent on the use of a specic asset or assets and whether the specic item.
Impairment losses are allocated rstly against arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata basis against intangible and Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds other assets.
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as Other operating income finance leases.
Finance lease assets are capitalised at the Other operating income is income generated by the group that commencement of the lease term at the lower of the present value arises from activities outside of the provision of communication of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
Items reported as other operating The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in income include income from repayment works, proceeds from scrap respect of future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are and cable recovery, income generated by our eet operations, subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective income from government grants, profits and losses on the disposal interest method.
of business operations and property, plant and equipment and Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are income generated from the exploitation of our intellectual property.
held by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the Government grants period of the lease.
Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income at their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant Share-based payments will be received and the group will comply with the conditions The ultimate parent of BT plc, BT Group plc, operates a number of associated with the grant.
Grants that compensate the group for equity settled share-based payment arrangements, under which the expenses incurred are recognised in the income statement within group receives services from employees as consideration for equity other operating income in the same periods in which the associated instruments share options and shares of BT Group plc.
Grants that compensate the group for settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement in other the effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the date of operating income on a straight line basis over the useful life of the grant, but including any market-based performance criteria and the asset.
impact of non-vesting conditions for example the requirement for employees to save.
The fair value determined at the grant date is Foreign currencies recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional on the groups estimate of the options or shares that will eventually currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the conditions.
Fair value is measured using either the Binomial options settlement of such transactions and from the translation of pricing model or Monte Carlo simulations, whichever is most monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at appropriate to the award.
period end exchange rates are recognised in the income statement Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken or transaction.
into account to determine the fair value of equity instruments On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings granted.
In the case that an award or option does not vest as a are translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results result of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the of foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates control of either counterparty, this is accounted for as a of exchange for the year unless this average is not a reasonable cancellation.
Cancellations must be treated as accelerated vesting approximation of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on and all remaining future charges are immediately recognised.
As the the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are requirement to save under an employee share save arrangement is a translated at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange non-vesting condition, employee cancellations must be treated as differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a an accelerated vesting.
separate component of equity, the translation reserve.
In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and Termination benets liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative Termination benets leaver costs are payable when employment is translation difference associated with the undertaking in the terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an translation reserve is charged or credited to the gain or loss on employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these disposal recognised in the income statement.
The group recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably committed to the affected employees leaving the Research and development group.
Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure, including the cost of internally developed software, is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it is incurred unless it is 44 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 06 329013 Notes to the Con Financial Statements.
qxp:BT PLC 07 18 5 12 18:09 Page 45 3. significant accounting policies continued and the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
Financial instruments Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Trade and other payables A financial asset is classied in this category if it is either acquired Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term held for recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced trading or if so designated by management.
Financial assets held in amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the this category are initially recognised and subsequently measured at effective interest method.
fair value, with changes in value recognised in the income statement in the line which most appropriately reects the nature Loans and other borrowings of the item or transaction.
Any direct transaction costs are Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of recognised immediately in the income statement.
amounts received net of transaction costs.
Loans and other borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the Loans and receivables effective interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed relationship, are revalued to reect the fair value movements on the or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The other than those for which the group may not recover substantially resultant amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation all of its initial investment, other than because of credit of the hedge, are recognised in the income statement.
deterioration, which are classied as available-for-sale.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce interest method, with changes in carrying value recognised in the exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The group does income statement in the line which most appropriately reects the not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial nature of the item or transaction.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are classied as held for trading and are initially Available-for-sale financial assets recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
The gain or Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in either specically designated in this category or not classied in any the income statement in net finance expense.
Derivative financial of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are instruments are classied as current assets or current liabilities initially recognised at fair value plus direct transaction costs and where they have a maturity period within 12 months.
Where then re-measured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, with derivative financial instruments have a maturity period greater than unrealised gains and losses except for changes in exchange rates 12 months, they are classied within either non-current assets or for monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment losses, non-current liabilities.
which are recognised in the income statement recognised in equity Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of until the financial asset is derecognised, at which time the any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge.
To cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is taken to qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be the income statement, in the line that most appropriately reects prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly the nature of the item or transaction.
effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in Trade and other receivables which the hedge remains in operation.
Hedge accounting is Financial assets within trade and other receivables are initially discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced terminated or no longer qualies for hedge accounting or the amount, and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the group chooses to end the hedge relationship.
The group designates effective interest method less provisions made for doubtful certain derivatives as either cash ow hedges or fair value hedges.
Provisions are made specifically where there is evidence of a risk of non payment, taking into account ageing, Cash ow hedges previous losses experienced and general economic conditions.
When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a Cash and cash equivalents highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity, in balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily the cash ow reserve.
For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or convertible to cash and which are subject to insignicant risk of liabilities, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or equity and recognised in the same line in the income statement in less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction and cash equivalents are as dened above net of outstanding bank affects the income statement.
Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included within loans and other ow hedge of a recognised asset or liability is recognised borrowings, in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
immediately in the same income statement line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises on highly probable transactions, it is Impairment of financial assets recognised in the line which most appropriately reects the nature The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial of the item or transaction.
asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has arisen on assets Fair value hedges carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is reduced with the When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of loss being recognised in the income statement.
The impairment loss the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or is measured as the difference between that assets carrying amount unrecognised rm commitment, at each reporting date the change Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 45 06 329013 Notes to the Con Financial Statements.
qxp:BT PLC 07 18 5 12 18:09 Page 46 3. significant accounting policies continued Other new standards and amendments in fair value of the derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge The impact of the following new standards, amendments and is recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in interpretations which are effective from 1 April 2013 is under fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the review, but the group does not currently expect any of these hedged risk.
changes to have a significant impact on the groups results or financial position.
Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments in the year Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures ended 31 March 2012 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The following amended standards and interpretations were adopted in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 2012.
They have had no significant impact on the groups results or IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements financial position for the current or prior years but may impact the IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities accounting for future transactions or arrangements.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Amendments to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Comprehensive Income Requirement Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Improvements to IFRS 2011.
Instruments and Improvements to IFRS 2010.
Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments not yet effective Certain new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the groups accounting periods beginning on 1 April 2013.
Those which are considered to be relevant to the groups operations are set out below.
Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benets These amendments are intended to provide a clearer indication of an entitys obligations resulting from the provision of dened benefit pension plans and how those obligations will affect its financial position, financial performance and cash ow.
The amendments include: The removal of the options to defer recognition of actuarial gains and losses and for alternative presentation of gains and losses by requiring immediate recognition of actuarial gains or losses in full in other comprehensive income and the inclusion of service and finance costs and plan administration costs in the income statement: The replacement of the expected return on pension plan assets and interest expense on pension plan liabilities with a single net interest component calculated on the net dened benefit liability or asset using the discount rate used to determine the dened benefit obligation: and Additional disclosures to explain the characteristics of a companys dened benefit plans, the amounts recognised in the financial statements and the risks arising from dened benefit plans.
IAS 19 requires retrospective adoption and therefore prior periods will be restated.
The group estimates the impact on 2012 had the amendments applied would have been to increase operating costs by approximately 30m and reduce the net finance income on pensions, reported as a specic item, by approximately 295m, with compensating adjustments in other comprehensive income leaving equity unchanged.
The group will also be required to make additional narrative disclosures.
46 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
