qxp:BT PLC 10 18 5 12 18:14 Page 109 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements Certain statements in this annual report are forward-looking and are made in reliance on the safe harbour provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements relate to analyses and other information which are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable.
These statements include, without limitation, those concerning: outlook: revenue growth and trends: EBITDA: free cash ow: net debt: credit ratings: operating cost reductions: BT Global Services EBITDA, restructuring costs, operating cash ow and revenue growth in higher growth economies: investment in and roll-out of our bre network, and its reach, innovations, increased speeds and speed availability: our broadband service and strategy: the BT Pension Scheme recovery plan, operating charge, regular contributions and interest: capital expenditure: effective tax rate: growth opportunities in networked IT services, the pay-TV services market, broadband and mobility: enhancing our IP-enabled TV service: growth of, and opportunities available in, the communications industry and BTs positioning to take advantage of those opportunities: expectations regarding competition, market shares, prices and growth: expectations regarding the convergence of technologies: plans for the launch of new products and services: network performance and quality: the impact of regulatory initiatives, decisions and outcomes on operations, including the regulation of the UK xed wholesale and retail businesses and the impact of the Undertakings to Ofcom under the Enterprise Act: BTs possible or assumed future results of operations and or those of its associates and joint ventures: capital expenditure and investment plans: adequacy of capital: nancing plans and renancing requirements: demand for and access to broadband and the promotion of broadband by third-party service providers: and those preceded by, followed by, or that include the words aims, believes, expects, anticipates, intends, will, should or similar expressions.
Although BT believes that the expectations reected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct.
Because these statements involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause differences between actual results and those implied by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: material adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by BT: future regulatory actions and conditions in its operating areas, including competition from others: selection by BT of the appropriate trading and marketing models for its products and services: technological innovations, including the cost of developing new products, networks and solutions and the need to increase expenditures for improving the quality of service: the anticipated benets and advantages of new technologies, products and services not being realised: developments in the convergence of technologies: prolonged adverse weather conditions resulting in a material increase in overtime, staff or other costs: the timing of entry and profitability of BT in certain communications markets: significant changes in market shares for BT and its principal products and services: uctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates: the underlying assumptions and estimates made in respect of major contracts proving unreliable: the aims of the BT Global Services restructuring programme not being achieved: and general financial market conditions affecting BTs performance and ability to raise finance.
Certain of these factors are discussed in more detail elsewhere in this annual report including, without limitation, in Our risks on pages 15 to 18.
BT undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Background Telephone services in almost all of the UK were, until 1981, provided by the Post Office, which was a government department until 1969 when it was established as a state public corporation.
In 1981, the postal and telecommunications services of the Post Ofce became the responsibility of two separate corporations, with British Telecommunications under the trading name of British Telecom taking over the telecommunications business.
British Telecommunications plc, the successor to the statutory corporation British Telecommunications, was incorporated in England and Wales on 1 April 1984 as a public limited company, wholly owned by the UK Government, as a result of the Telecommunications Act 1984.
Between November 1984 and July 1993, the UK Government sold all of its shareholding in three public offerings.
BT Group was formed when the O2 business, comprising what had been BTs mobile activities in the UK, the Netherlands, Germany and the Republic of Ireland, was demerged on 19 November 2001.
British Telecommunications plc shares ceased trading on the London, New York and Tokyo stock exchanges on 16 November 2001.
BT Groups shares commenced trading on the London and New York stock exchanges on 19 November 2001.
As a result of the transaction BT plc became a wholly-owned subsidiary of BT Group Investments Limited BTGI, itself wholly owned by BT Group plc.
Accordingly, the ordinary shares of BT plc were fide-listed from the London Stock Exchange on 19 November 2001.
The registered ofce address of BT is 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ.
The companys agent in the US is Richard Nohe, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, NY 10018, US.
Additional information for shareholders British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 109 09 329013 Additional Information.
qxp:BT PLC 10 18 5 12 18:14 Page 110 Bonds prices On 5 December 2000 BT issued four series of bonds comprising US$2.8bn 8.625% bonds due 2030 the thirty-year 2000 Bonds, US$3.0bn 8.125% bonds due 2011 the ten-year 2000 Bonds, US$3.1bn 7.625% bonds due 2005 the five-year 2000 Bonds and US$1.1bn oating rate bonds due 2003 the three-year 2000 Bonds, and, together with the thirty-year 2000 Bonds, the ten-year 2000 Bonds and the five-year 2000 Bonds, the 2000 Bonds.
The three-year 2000 Bonds were redeemed at par on 15 December 2003, the five-year 2000 Bonds were redeemed at par on 15 December 2005 and the ten-year 2000 Bonds were redeemed at par on 15 December 2011.
On 5 December 2007, BT issued two series of bonds comprising US$600,000,000 5.15% senior bonds due 2013 the five-year 2007 Bonds and US$600,000,000 5.95% senior bonds due 2018 the ten-year 2007 Bonds and, together with the five-year 2007 Bonds, the 2007 Bonds.
On 19 March 2008, BT issued two series of bonds comprising US$250,000,000 5.15% senior bonds due 2013 the five-year 2008 Bonds and US$500,000,000 5.95% senior bonds due 2018 the ten-year 2008 Bonds and, together with the five-year 2008 Bonds, the 2008 Bonds.
qxp:BT PLC 10 18 5 12 18:14 Page 112 Articles of Association Articles The following is a summary of the principal provisions of BTs Articles, a copy of which has been led with the Registrar of Companies.
New Articles of Association were adopted on 5 August 2010, largely to take account of changes in UK company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act.
Under the 2006 Act, the Memorandum of Association serves a more limited role as historical evidence of the formation of the company.
Since August 2010, the provisions in relation to objects in BTs Memorandum are deemed to form part of BTs Articles, and have been deleted from those Articles because of shareholders passing a resolution to this effect.
Under the 2006 Act, BTs objects are unrestricted.
Articles a Voting rights In the following description of the rights attaching to the shares in the company, a holder of shares and a member is, in either case, the person registered in the companys register of members as the holder of the relevant shares.
Subject to certain restrictions, on a show of hands, every member present in person or by proxy at any general meeting has one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share which they hold.
Voting at any meeting of members is by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by any member at the meeting who is entitled to vote or the members proxy.
b Changes in capital The company may by ordinary resolution: i consolidate, or consolidate and then divide, all or any of its share capital into shares of a larger amount than its existing shares: ii divide its shares, or any of them, into shares of a smaller amount and the resolution may decide that, as between the shares resulting from the division, any of them may have any preference or advantage as compared with the others.
The company may also: i buy back its own shares: and ii by special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital redemption reserve and any share premium account.
c Dividends The companys members can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution, in addition to the powers of the Board, but no dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Dividends must be paid out of profits available for distribution.
If the directors consider that the profits of the company justify such payments, they can pay interim and final dividends.
Fixed dividends will be paid on any class of share on the dates stated for the payments of those dividends.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for 10 years after it was declared or became due for payment will be forfeited and belong to the company again unless the directors decide otherwise.
d Distribution of assets on winding up If the company is wound up whether the liquidation is voluntary, under supervision of a court or by a court the liquidator can, with the authority of a special resolution passed by the members, divide among the members all or any part of the assets of the company.
This applies whether the assets consist of property of one kind or different kinds.
For this purpose, the liquidator can place whatever value the liquidator considers fair on any property and decide how the division is carried out between members or different groups of members.
The liquidator can also, with the same authority, transfer any assets to trustees upon trusts for the benefit of members which the liquidator decides.
The liquidation of the company can then be nalised and the company dissolved.
No past or present members can be compelled to accept any shares or other property under BTs Articles which could give them a liability.
e Transfer of shares Shares of the company may only be transferred in writing and either in the usual form or another form approved by the Board.
A transfer form must be signed or made effective in some other way, by or on behalf of the person making the transfer and, unless the share is fully paid, by or on behalf of the person to whom the shares are being transferred.
f General meetings The Board can decide to call general meetings.
If there are not enough directors in the UK to call a general meeting, any director or member may call a general meeting.
g Limitations on rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders There are no limitations on the rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders.
h Directors Directors remuneration The directors are entitled to the remuneration set by the company by an ordinary resolution.
The directors may be paid their expenses properly incurred in connection with the business of the company.
The directors can decide whether to provide pensions, annual payments or other allowances or benets to any people including people who are or were directors of the company.
The Board can decide to extend these arrangements to relations or dependants of, or people connected to these people.
The Board can also decide to contribute to a scheme or fund or to pay premiums to a third party for these purposes.
However, the company can only provide pension and other similar benets to any director or former director who has not been employed by or held any other ofce or executive position, in BT Group plc or any of its subsidiary undertakings, including the company, or to relations or dependants of, or people connected to, those directors or former directors, if the members approve this by passing an ordinary resolution.
112 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Additional information for shareholders 09 329013 Additional Information.
qxp:BT PLC 10 18 5 12 18:14 Page 113 Articles continued i Directors votes A director need not be a member, but a director who is not a member can still attend and speak at members meetings.
Unless BTs Articles say otherwise, a director cannot vote on a resolution about a contract in which the director has an interest this will also apply to interests of a person connected with the director.
If the legislation allows, a director can vote and be counted in the quorum on a resolution concerning a contract: I in which the director has an interest of which the director is not aware: or which cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a conict of interest: II in which the director has an interest only because the director is a holder of shares, debentures or other securities of BT, or by reason of any other interest in or through BT: III which involves the giving of any security, guarantee or indemnity to the director or any other person for: money lent or obligations incurred by the director or by any other person at the request of or for the benefit of BT or the benefit of any of its subsidiary undertakings: or a debt or other obligation which is owed by BT or any of its subsidiary undertakings to that other person if the director has taken responsibility for all or any part of that debt or obligation by giving a guarantee, security or indemnity: IV where BT or any of its subsidiary undertakings is offering any shares, debentures or other securities for subscription or purchase to which the director is or may be entitled to participate as a holder of BT or BT Group plc securities: or where the director will be involved in the underwriting or sub-underwriting: V relating to any other company in which the director has an interest, directly or indirectly including holding a position in that company or is a shareholder, creditor, employee or otherwise involved in that company.
These rights do not apply if the director owns 1% or more of that company or of the voting rights in that company: VI relating to an arrangement for the benefit of BT employees or former employees of BT or any of BTs subsidiary undertakings which only gives the directors the same benets that are generally given to the employees or former employees to whom the arrangement relates: VII relating to BT buying or renewing insurance for any liability for the benefit of directors or for the benefit of persons who include directors: VIII relating to the giving of indemnities in favour of directors: IX relating to the funding of expenditure by any director or directors: on defending criminal, civil or regulatory proceedings or actions against the director or the directors: in connection with an application to the court for relief: or on defending the director or the directors in any regulatory investigations: or which enables any director or directors to avoid incurring expenditure as described in this paragraph: and X in which the directors interest, or the interest of directors generally, has been authorised by an ordinary resolution.
Subject to the relevant legislation, the members can by passing an ordinary resolution ratify any particular contract or arrangement carried out in breach of those provisions.
j Retirement of directors No person will be prevented from being or becoming a director simply because that person has reached the age of 70. k Directors borrowing powers To the extent that the legislation and BTs Articles allow, the Board may exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge its business, property and assets present and future and to issue debentures and other securities, and give security either outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the company or another person.
Further note on certain activities During 2012, certain of the groups non-US subsidiaries or other non-US entities conducted limited activities in, or with persons from, certain countries identied by the US Department of State as State Sponsors of Terrorism or otherwise subject to US sanctions.
These activities, which generally relate to the provision of communications services to embassies and diplomatic missions of US-allied governments, other CPs, news organisations, multinational corporations and other customers that require global communications connectivity, are insignicant to the groups financial condition and results of operations.
Limitations affecting security holders There are no limitations under the laws of the United Kingdom restricting the right of non-residents to hold or to vote shares in the company.
Documents on display All reports and other information that BT les with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC may be inspected at the SECs public reference facilities at Room 1580, 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC, 20549, US.
These reports may be accessed via the SECs website at www.
Additional information for shareholders British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 113
