06 329013 Notes to the Con Financial Statements.
qxp:BT PLC 07 18 5 12 18:09 Page 40 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 March 2012 1.
Basis of Preparation Long-term customer contracts Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of Preparation of the financial statements financial years.
During the contractual period recognition of costs These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in and profits may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS profitability of each contract.
If, at any time, these estimates Regulation and International Accounting Standards IAS and indicate that any contract will be unprofitable, the entire International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related estimated loss for the contract is recognised immediately.
If these interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
The estimates indicate that any contract will be less profitable than consolidated financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS previously forecast, contract assets may have to be written down as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
to the extent they are no longer considered to be fully The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the recoverable.
The group performs ongoing profitability reviews of historical cost basis, except for certain financial and equity its contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates instruments that have been measured at fair value.
Key factors reviewed include: consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, the Transaction volumes or other inputs affecting future revenues presentation currency of the group.
which can vary depending on customer requirements, plans and market position and other factors such as general economic Presentation of specic items conditions: The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately Our ability to achieve key contract milestones connected with identify trading results before specic items.
Specic items are the transition, development, transformation and deployment those that in managements judgment need to be disclosed by phases for customer contracts: virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
In determining whether an The status of commercial relations with customers and the event or transaction is specic, management considers quantitative implication for future revenue and cost projections: and as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability Our estimates of future staff and third party costs and the of occurrence.
This is consistent with the way that financial degree to which cost savings and efficiencies are deliverable.
performance is measured by management and reported to the The carrying value of assets comprising the costs of the initial set Board and the Operating Committee of BT Group plc and assists in up, transition or transformation phase of long-term networked IT providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group.
services contracts are disclosed in note 16.
The directors believe that presentation of the groups results in this way is relevant to an understanding of the groups financial Pension obligations performance as specic items are identied by virtue of their size, BT has a commitment, mainly through the BTPS, to pay pension nature or incidence.
Furthermore, the group considers a columnar benets to approximately 325,000 people over a period of more presentation to be appropriate, as it improves the clarity of the than 80 years.
The cost of these benets and the present value of presentation and is consistent with the way that financial our pension liabilities depend on such factors as the life expectancy performance is measured by management and reported to the of the members, the salary progression of our current employees, Board and the Operating Committee of BT Group plc.
Specic items the return that the pension fund assets will generate in the time may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other before they are used to fund the pension payments, price ination companies.
and the discount rate used to calculate the net present value of the Items which have been considered to be specic items by virtue future pension payments.
We use estimates for all of these factors in of their size, nature or incidence include disposals of businesses and determining the pension costs and liabilities incorporated in our investments, regulatory settlements, business restructuring financial statements.
The assumptions reect historical experience programmes, asset impairment charges, property rationalisation and our judgement regarding future expectations.
programmes, net interest on pensions and the settlement of The value of the net pension obligation at 31 March 2012 and multiple tax years in a single payment.
In 2009 BT Global Services the key financial assumptions used to measure the obligation are contract and financial review charges were disclosed as a specic disclosed in note 19. item by virtue of their size and nature.
The impact of subsequent changes to the contract and financial review charges from revisions Useful lives for property, plant and equipment and software in estimates and assumptions are included within trading results The plant and equipment in BTs networks is long lived with cables before specic items, and are separately disclosed if considered and switching equipment operating for over 10 years and significant.
underground ducts being used for decades.
BT also develops Specic items for the current and prior years are disclosed in software for use in IT systems and platforms that supports the note 9. products and services provided to our customers and that is also used within the group.
The annual depreciation and amortisation 2.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements charge is sensitive to the estimated service lives allocated to each The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS type of asset.
Asset lives are assessed annually and changed when requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also necessary to reect current thinking on their remaining lives in light requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of of technological change, network investment plans including the applying the groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate groups bre roll-out programme, prospective economic utilisation our estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available and physical condition of the assets concerned.
Changes to the information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in service lives of assets implemented from 1 April 2011 had no financial reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates.
significant impact in aggregate on the results for the year ended Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and 31 March 2012. associated disclosures with the Audit & Risk Committee.
The areas The carrying values of software, property, plant and equipment involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are described are disclosed in notes 12 and 13.
The useful lives applied to the below.
principal categories of assets are disclosed on pages 42 and 43.
40 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
