84 Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc Information for investors Dividends, change of address and other shareholder services The contact details for Computershare Investor Services UK registered shareholders are shown on the opposite page.
New Zealand registered Shareholders on the UK register who wish to have dividends shareholders may also change their addresses, update paid directly into a bank account, rather than by cheque to their payment instructions and view their shareholdings, including registered address, can complete a mandate form for this transactions, online at www.
Mandates may be obtained from Capita Registrars.
enquiries can be directed to enquiry@computershare.
Where dividends are paid directly into shareholders bank It will assist Computershare Investor Services if the CSN or accounts, dividend tax vouchers are sent directly to shareholders shareholder number is quoted in any communication with them.
Caledonia Investments ISA Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address The Caledonia Investments Individual Savings Account ISA is a held on the share register.
In the event of a change of address or tax eficient savings account that allows participants to inve t up s other amendment, shareholders on the UK register should notify to an annual amount of 11,280 for the tax year ending 5 April Capita Registrars, under the signature of the registered holder, 2013.
Lump sum payments or regular monthly deposits can be or where there is more than one registered holder, under the made into the ISA.
Details of the ISA are available on Caledonias signature of the irst named holder.
website or by request from the company.
Post and telephone contact details for Capita Registrars are Caledonia Investments Share Savings Scheme shown on the opposite page.
Capita Registrars also provide The Caledonia Investments Share Savings Scheme is a plan that an online facility to enable shareholders to manage securely aims to provide a simple and lexible way for investors to their shareholdings via the internet.
By registering to use the purchase shares in Caledonia.
Lump sum payments or regular facility, shareholders can access a range of online services, monthly deposits can be made into the Share Savings Scheme.
including viewing shareholding details, transaction and dividend Details of the Share Savings Scheme are available on Caledonias histories, change of address and bank mandate and use of the website or by request from the company.
The online facility is available at PEPs and ISAs www.
Caledonias shares can be treated as qualifying investments for Capita Registrars also offer a share dealing service and dividend the purposes of the PEP and ISA rules.
reinvestment plan for existing shareholders.
The share dealing Share prices service is available online at www.
com or by telephone The companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock on 0871 664 0384 calls cost 10p per minute including VAT Exchange under the SEDOL code of 0163992 or TIDM code of plus network extras, with lines open Monday to Friday 8.00am CLDN.
Prices are published daily in the Financial Times under to 4.30pm.
the Investment Companies heading and in other leading The dividend reinvestment plan provides a convenient way for newspapers and can also be viewed on the companys website shareholders to build up their shareholdings by using cash at www.
dividends to buy more shares in the company.
An application The companys ordinary shares are also listed on the New form for the dividend reinvestment plan is available online at Zealand Exchange under the security code of CDN.
com or by telephone from Capita IRG in New Zealand are able to trade their shares locally and receive Trustees Ltd on 0871 664 0381 calls cost 10p per minute dividends in New Zealand dollars.
including VAT, plus network extras, or 44 20 8639 3402 if calling from overseas.
In each case, lines are open from Monday The ISIN code for Caledonias ordinary shares is GB0001639920.
Alternatively, an application form Monthly net asset value can be requested by email from shares@capitaregistrars.
The company releases a net asset value announcement and New Zealand registered shareholders publishes a fact sheet shortly after each month end.
These can be Shareholders on the New Zealand register may arrange to found on the companys website at www.
receive their dividends by direct credit to a speciied New Zealand bank account.
New Zealand registered shareholders should contact Computershare Investor Services if they wish to set up such an arrangement.
Shareholders on the New Zealand register should also notify Computershare Investor Services if they have changed their address, but where there is more than one registered holder, all holders should sign the notiication.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2012 85 Chairman Auditor 2 James R H Loudon KPMG Audit Plc 15 Canada Square Executive directors Canary Wharf William P Wyatt Chief Executive London E14 5GL Stephen A King Finance Director The Hon Charles W Cayzer Registrars Jamie M B Cayzer-Colvin Capita Registrars The Registry Non-executive directors 34 Beckenham Road 1,2, 3,4 Charles M Allen-Jones Senior Independent Beckenham 2,3, 4 Mark E T Davies Kent BR3 4TU 1 Richard Goblet dAlviella Tel: 0 871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute 1,2, 3,4 Charles H Gregson including VAT, plus network extras 2,4 Roderick D Kent 44 20 8639 3399 if calling from overseas 1,2, 3,4 David G F Thompson 2,3, 4 Robert B Woods CBE Computershare Investor Services Ltd 1.
Member of the Audit Committee Private Bag 92119 2.
Member of the Nomination Committee Victoria Street West 3.
Member of the Remuneration Committee Auckland 1142 4.
Member of the Governance Committee New Zealand Associate directors Tel: 64 9 488 8777 Graeme P Denison Charles H Edwards Brokers Jonathan R Hale J. P. Morgan Cazenove Anthony E G Hambro 10 Aldermanbury Duncan E Johnson London EC2V 7RF Mathew S D Masters Sheena D McNeill First NZ Capital Securities Stephen J Mitchell PO Box 3394 Paul M Whiteley Level 14, HP Tower 171 Featherston Street Secretary Wellington Graeme P Denison New Zealand Registered ofice Solicitors Cayzer House Freshields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP 30 Buckingham Gate 65 Fleet Street London SW1E 6NN London EC4Y 1HS Registered number Registered in England no 235481 TT-COC-002228 This report has been printed in the UK by Royle Corporate Print.
Under the framework of ISO 14001, Royle takes a structured approach to measure, improve and audit their environmental status on an ongoing basis.
The main areas targeted for continual reduction arise from the use of solvents, energy consumption and waste generation.
Royle is a Carbon Neutral printing company and also Forestry Stewardship Council FSC Chain of Custody Certiied.
All inks used are vegetable based.
This pape r is  ECF elemental chlorine free, wood free and with a high content of selected pre-consumer recycled material.
The mill is fully FSC certiied.
The paper is also completely bio-degradab le and recyclable.
Page 15 Polar Capital image copyright Martin Hartley.
Designed and produced by The College.
com Caledonia Investments Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc Cayzer House 30 Buckingham Gate London SW1E 6NN tel 020 7802 8080 fax 020 7802 8090 email enquiries@caledonia.
