18 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Report of the Directors continued Companys business, and with the provisions of the Code l Board independence All directors have a wide range of other interests and are except as noted below.
not dependent on the Company itself.
At the Nominations The Code includes provisions relating to: Committee meeting in July 2012, the directors reviewed their independence and confirmed that all directors, with l The role of chief executive the exception of David Brief, remain wholly independent of l Executive directors remuneration Henderson.
David Brief is a director of another investment l The need for an internal audit function trust managed by the Investment Manager and is not As the Company delegates to an external investment manager considered to be independent under the Listing Rules.
its day-to-day operations and has no employees, the Board does There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of not consider these provisions to be relevant to the Company the year in which a director of the Company is or was and has not reported further in respect of these provisions.
materially interested and which is or was significant in relation to the Companys business.
c Directors l Board composition l Directors remuneration The Articles of Association provide that the total number A report on directors remuneration is on page 26. of directors shall not be less than three nor more than l Directors interests in shares seven: the Board consists of five non-executive directors.
The interests of the current directors in the ordinary shares The biographies of the directors holding office at the of the Company at the beginning or date of appointment, date of this report, which are set out on page 13, if later and end of the financial year are shown in the demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and table below.
professional experience relevant to their positions as Ordinary shares of 25p 30 June 2012 1 July 2011 directors.
Philip Remnant, Simon Barratt, Richard Hextall Beneficial: and David Brief served on the Board throughout the year: Simon Barratt 6,754 3,450 Martin Morgan joined the Board on 1 March 2012.
Simon David Brief 9,985 9,985 fide Zoete retired from the Board on 24 October 2011.
Richard Hextall 4,000 4,000 1 Martin Morgan 17,300 l Directors appointment, retirement and rotation Philip Remnant 65,720 58,720 The Board may appoint directors to the Board and any director so appointed must stand for election by the or date of appointment, if later 1 Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2012 shareholders at the AGM following appointment, in accordance with the Articles of Association.
There have been no further changes since the year end.
All directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
l Directors conflicts of interest The Articles of Association require one-third or the Directors have a duty to avoid situations where they have, number nearest to one-third of the directors to retire by or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or rotation at each AGM.
However, the Code and the AIC possibly could conflict, with the Companys interests.
During the year, the Companies Act 2006 the Act has Code require all directors of FTSE 350 companies to retire allowed directors of public companies to authorise such annually.
All the current directors will therefore retire and, conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, but being eligible, have all stated that they will offer only if the articles of association contain a provision to this themselves for re-election.
The Act also allows the articles of association to Under the Articles of Association, shareholders may remove contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts a director before the end of his term by passing an of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
There are two safe ordinary resolution at a meeting.
harbours either the situation cannot reasonably be
