The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 33 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued k Issue and repurchase of ordinary shares and associated costs The proceeds from the issue of new ordinary shares including those relating to the sale of shares out of treasury and the aggregate cost of repurchasing ordinary shares including those to be held in treasury are taken directly to equity and dealt with in the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds.
Issue costs incurred in respect of new ordinary shares are offset against the proceeds received and dealt with in the share premium account.
Issue costs incurred in respect of shares sold out of treasury are offset against proceeds received and dealt with in other capital reserves.
Share issue and repurchase transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
l Capital reserves Capital reserve arising on investments sold The following are accounted for in this reserve: gains and losses on the disposals of investments: expenses and finance costs allocated to capital net of tax relief: realised foreign exchange differences of a capital nature: and costs of repurchasing ordinary share capital.
Capital reserve arising on revaluation of investments held The following are accounted for in this reserve: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end: and unrealised foreign exchange differences of a capital nature.
m Derivative financial instruments Derivative transactions which the Company may enter into comprise forward exchange contracts the purpose of which is to hedge foreign currency exposure and futures contracts on indices appropriate to sections of the portfolio one purpose for which may be to provide protection against falls in the capital values of the holdings.
The Company may also write options on shares represented in the portfolio where such options are priced attractively relative to the Investment Managers expectations for the relevant share prices and to generate additional return for shareholders.
The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Companys policies as approved by the Board.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Income Statement as they arise.
If capital in nature, the associated change in value is presented as a capital item in the Income Statement.
Where options are written for the purpose of generating revenue, applicable premiums are recognised evenly over the life of the option and shown in the revenue return, with the appropriate amount shown as capital return such that the total return reflects the overall change in the fair value of the option.
2012 2011 2 Losses gains from investments held at fair value through profit or loss 000 000 Gains on the sale of investments based on historical cost 8,391 2,916 Revaluation gains recognised in previous years 14,292 584 Losses gains on investments sold in the year based on the carrying value at the previous balance sheet date 5,901 2,332 Revaluation of investments held at 30 June 4,680 120,091 Exchange losses 36 73 Total losses gains from investments held at fair value through profit or loss 10,617 122,350
