The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 25 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the financial position of the Company and enable them to the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial ensure that the financial statements and the Directors statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Statement under DTR 4.1.
12 United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Each of the directors, who are listed on page 13, confirms Under company law the directors must not approve the that, to the best of their knowledge: financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company l the financial statements, which have been prepared in and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted preparing these financial statements, the directors are Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting required to: Standards and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and net return of l select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Company: and consistently: l the Report of the Directors in this Annual Report and l make judgments and accounting estimates that are Financial Statements includes a fair review of the reasonable and prudent: development and performance of the business and the l state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have position of the Company, together with a description of been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
and explained in the financial statements, respectively: and l prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis Signed for and on behalf of the Board of directors unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Philip Remnant The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Chairman transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 24 September 2012 The financial statements are published on www.
com which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, Henderson Global Investors Limited Henderson.
The maintenance and integrity of the website is the responsibility of Henderson: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
