The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 21 Report of the Directors continued l Board attendance eliminate risks of failure to achieve the Companys business Attendance at Board and Committee meetings held during objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute the financial year are shown below.
All directors usually assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board attend the Annual General Meeting.
has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of Audit Nominations internal controls for the year ended 30 June 2012.
During the Board Committee Committee course of its review of internal controls, the Board has not No of meetings 9 3 1 identified or been advised of any failings or weaknesses that Simon Barratt 8 3 1 have been determined as significant.
David Brief 9 3 1 Richard Hextall 9 3 1 The Board, assisted by the Investment Manager, undertook a full 1 Martin Morgan 3 review of the Companys business risks and these have been Philip Remnant 9 1 analysed and recorded in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
2 Simon fide Zoete 3 1 1 The Investment Manager has established an internal control Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2012 2 Retired from the Board on 24 October 2011 framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on e Performance evaluation behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls l The Company is assessed by the Investment Managers compliance and risk The performance of the Company is considered in detail at department on a continuing basis.
The Board receives each each Board meeting.
quarter from the Investment Manager a formal report which l The Board details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including The work of the Board as a whole and of the Board those that are not directly the responsibility of the Investment Committees was reviewed by the Nominations Committee Manager, and which reports the details of any known internal in July 2012 and no areas of concern were identified.
The Board receives each year from the l Individual directors Investment Manager a report on its internal controls which The Chairman reviews each individual directors includes a report from the Investment Managers auditors on contribution on an annual basis.
The Nominations the control policies and procedures in operation.
Steps will Committee meets without the Chairman present if continue to be taken to embed the system of internal control necessary, in order to review the performance of the and risk management into the operation and culture of the Chairman.
Company and its key suppliers.
At the 2012 meeting the Nominations Committee agreed g Accountability and relationship with the Investment that the Chairman continues to promote effective leadership Manager and each of the directors contributes valuable experience The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the and skills to the Board.
The Company is required to engage Financial Statements is set out on page 25, the Independent an external facilitator for the Board evaluation every three Auditors Report on page 49 and the Statement of Going years.
The evaluation in 2012 was undertaken internally and Concern on page 15. an external evaluation will be undertaken next year.
The Board has delegated contractually to external third parties, f Internal controls including the Investment Manager, the management of the The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the safeguarding of the assets, the day to day accounting, company Company.
The process has been in place since 2000 and is secretarial and administration requirements and registration subject to regular review by the Board.
Up to the date of this services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and report the process accords with the Internal Control Guidance proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the for Directors on the Combined Code published in September services offered, including the control systems in operation in so 1999 the Turnbull Guidance.
far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system The Board receives and considers regular reports from the of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Investment Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
In addition, the Chairman However, such a system is designed to manage rather than
