22 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Report of the Directors continued attends meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trust As a result of their annual review, it is the opinion of the companies managed by the Investment Manager: these directors that the continued appointment of the current meetings provide a forum to discuss industry matters and the Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of Chairman reports on them to the Board.
the Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase i Share capital and shareholders and sale of individual investments.
The Investment Manager l Share capital also ensures that all directors receive, in a timely manner, all The Companys equity and non-equity share capital comprises: relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
i ordinary shares of 25p nominal value each.
The voting Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each Board rights of the ordinary shares on a poll are one vote for meeting enabling the directors to probe further on matters of every 15 shares held.
At the beginning of the year, there concern.
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for were 224,859,868 ordinary shares in issue.
During the decision by the full Board has been defined and a procedure year, 14,000,000 shares representing 6.23% of the adopted for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the number of shares in issue at the beginning of the year Company within certain parameters.
The directors have access were issued for total proceeds net of commissions of to the advice and services of the corporate Company Secretary 39,250,000.
At 30 June 2012 the number of ordinary through its appointed representative who is responsible to the shares in issue with voting rights was 238,859,868.
Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and Since 30 June 2012 and up to the date of this report a that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The further 1,950,000 ordinary shares have been issued for a Board and Investment Manager operate in a supportive, total consideration of 5,891,452.
The number of shares in co-operative and open environment.
issue at the date of this report is 240,809,868.
The Board has reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act ii cumulative first preference stock.
The voting rights of the 2010, which came into force on 1 July 2011, and confirmed first preference stock on a poll are one vote per 10 of its zero tolerance to bribery and corruption in its business stock held.
At 1 July 2011 and at 30 June 2012 there was activities.
It has sought and received assurances from its main 301,982 of first preference stock in issue.
contractors and suppliers that they will maintain adequate safeguards to protect against any potentially illegal behaviour iii non-cumulative second preference stock.
Second preference by their employees and agents.
stockholders have no rights to attend and vote at general h Continued appointment of the Investment Manager meetings except on the winding-up of the Company or if The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of dividends are in arrears.
At 1 July 2011 and at 30 June 2012 investment management and other services to the Company on there was 507,202 of second preference stock in issue.
The principal contents of the agreement with iv non-cumulative preferred ordinary stock.
The voting rights the Investment Manager are contained on page 16. of the preferred ordinary stock on a poll are one vote per The Board reviews investment performance at each Board 20 of stock held.
At 1 July 2011 and at 30 June 2012 meeting and a formal review of the Investment Manager is there was 589,672 of preferred ordinary stock in issue.
As part of the annual review in July 2012 Further details on the first and second preference stock the directors discussed the quality and continuity of the and the preferred ordinary stock together the Preferred personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs, with Stock are contained in note 15 on page 39. particular reference to performance and results achieved to date.
In addition, they reviewed other services provided by the There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys Investment Manager to the Company, such as accounting, share capital and there are no shares or stock which carry company secretarial and administration services, and the specific rights with regards to control of the Company.
Investment Managers promotion of investment and savings l Substantial share interests products linked to the Companys shares.
The Board noted the Investment Managers resources and experience in Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the Company, at 30 June 2012, are set out overleaf.
managing and administering investment trust companies.
