The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 19 Report of the Directors continued l Directors indemnity regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of interest or the Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in matter has been authorised in advance by the directors.
Under the Companys Articles of The Companys Articles of Association give the directors Association and, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, the relevant authority required to deal with conflicts of a qualifying third party provision indemnity may be interest.
provided to directors in respect of costs which they may Each of the directors has provided a statement of all incur relating to the defence of any proceedings brought conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest, if against them arising out of their positions as directors, in any, applicable to the Company.
A register of conflicts of which they are acquitted or judgment is given in their interest has been compiled and approved by the Board.
No indemnity was given during the The directors have also all undertaken to notify the year or up to the date of this report.
Chairman as soon as they become aware of any new d The Board potential conflicts of interest that would need to be l Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees approved by the Board and added to the Register, which is During the year nine Board meetings were held to deal reviewed annually by the Board.
with the important aspects of the Companys affairs.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved It has also been agreed that directors will advise the for its decision, which are categorised under various Chairman and the Company Secretary in advance of any headings including strategy, management, structure, proposed external appointment and new directors will be capital, financial reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset asked to submit a list of potential situations falling within allocation, share price premium discount, contracts, the conflicts of interest provisions of the Act in advance of investment policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, joining the Board.
The Chairman will then determine performance, corporate governance and Board whether the relevant appointment causes a conflict or membership and appointments.
potential conflict of interest and should therefore be considered by the Board.
Only directors who have no At each meeting the Board reviews the Companys interest in the matter being considered will be able to investment performance and considers financial analyses participate in the Board approval process.
In deciding and other reports of an operational nature.
The Board whether to approve a conflict of interest, directors will also monitors compliance with the Companys objective and is act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely responsible for setting asset allocation, investment and to promote the Companys success in taking such a decision.
gearing limits within which the Manager has discretion to The Board can impose limits or conditions when giving act.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of any investments in in-house funds managed or advised by the authorisation if the directors consider this to be appropriate.
It also has adopted a procedure for directors, in The Board confirms that its powers of authorisation of the furtherance of their duties, to take independent conflicts have operated effectively during the year.
The professional advice at the expense of the Company.
In Board also confirms that its procedures for the approval of order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all conflicts of interest have been followed by all the directors.
directors have full and timely access to relevant information.
l Directors professional development The Board has two Committees: the Audit Committee and When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a the Nominations Committee.
The terms of reference for training seminar which is held by the Investment Manager.
these Committees are available on the Companys website Directors are also provided on a regular basis with key www.
The Board has not formed a information on the Companys policies, regulatory and Management Engagement Committee as it remains the role statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes of the Board as a whole with the exception of David Brief affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the Board who is not independent to keep under review the terms of as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant the management agreement between the Company and the training and industry seminars.
20 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Report of the Directors continued l Audit Committee partner every five years and this is the fourth year that the During the year under review, the Audit Committee current partner has been in place.
members were Richard Hextall, David Brief and Simon  LLP have indicated their willingness Barratt.
The Audit Committee comprises two independent to continue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions to confirm the members and at least one member who has competence in appointment of  LLP as auditors to accounting.
The Chairman is Richard Hextall who is a the Company, and to authorise the directors to determine Chartered Accountant.
Simon Barratt is a qualified lawyer their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
and David Brief a pensions investment executive.
l Nominations Committee The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year and is All directors are members of the Nominations Committee.
responsible for the review of the annual accounts, the nature The Chairman of the Board acts as Chairman of the and scope of the external audit and the findings therefrom, Committee but would not chair the Committee when the the terms of appointment of the auditors together with their Chairmans successor was being considered.
As David Brief remuneration, performance, independence and objectivity, as is not independent under the Code he is not permitted to well as any non-audit services provided by the auditors, and vote on the appointment of a new independent director.
It meets with representatives of the The Committee is responsible for reviewing Board succession Investment Manager and receives reports on the quality and planning, the performance of the Board as a whole and the effectiveness of the accounting records and management Board Committees, and the appointment of new directors.
information maintained on behalf of the Company.
Audit fees paid to  LLP are detailed in note When considering succession planning, the Committee 6 on page 35. bears in mind the balance of skills, knowledge, experience The Audit Committee has formulated a policy on the and diversity existing on the Board and will recommend provision of non-audit services by the Companys auditors when the recruitment of additional non-executive directors and has determined that the Companys appointed is required.
Once a decision is made to recruit additional auditors will never be considered for the provision of nondirectors to the Board, a formal job description is drawn up audit services, such as accounting and preparation of the and each director is invited to submit nominations and financial statements, internal audit, custody, tax advice to these are considered in accordance with the Boards agreed directors and tax calculations to support the financial procedures.
The Committee may also use external agencies statements.
The auditors may, if required, provide nonas and when the requirement to recruit an additional Board audit services relating to a review of the Companys half member becomes necessary.
The Committee recommended year report and a review of the calculation of a to the Board the appointment of Martin Morgan, who performance fee provision at half year.
All other non-audit joined the Board on 1 March 2012. services will be judged on a case-by-case basis and will be The Committee also reviews and recommends to the approved by a member of the Audit Committee.
Board the directors seeking re-election.
Recommendation During the year under review,  LLP is not automatic and will follow a process of evaluation of have not provided any non-audit services for the Company.
each directors performance and consideration of the As disclosed in previous annual reports, directors independence.
The Committee also takes into account the mix of skills and experience of the current  LLP have been engaged to provide services in respect of a case for the restitution of Board members.
In accordance with the Code any VAT paid to the Manager between 1996 and 2000.
The director serving for longer than six years would be subject case is still ongoing.
to particularly rigorous assessment of his her contribution.
The Audit Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness The Committee met in July 2012 to carry out its annual of the audit provided by  LLP.
review of the Board, its composition and size and its The appointment of the auditors was put to tender in Committees.
The results of the performance evaluation are December 2008.
The auditors are required to rotate the audit contained in e overleaf.
