24 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Report of the Directors continued give specific instructions on voting non-routine and directors have not bought back any shares and therefore at unusual or controversial resolutions.
Decisions not to the date of this report the directors have remaining authority support resolutions and the rationale therefore are fed to repurchase 34,148,699 shares.
This authority will expire back to the investee company prior to voting.
at the conclusion of the AGM in October 2012, when a new authority will be sought.
The Henderson Responsible Investment Policy and further details of Hendersons responsible investment activities can The directors believe that, from time to time and subject to be found on the Henderson website, www.
com market conditions, it will continue to be in the shareholders interests to buy back the Companys shares when they are l Employee and environmental matters trading at a discount to the underlying net asset value per The Company has no employees and outsources its share.
The Company may utilise the authority to purchase investment management and company secretarial services to shares by either a single purchase or a series of purchases subsidiaries of Henderson.
Henderson has implemented when market conditions allow, with the aim of maximising environmental management practices, which include systems the benefit to shareholders.
to limit the use of non-renewable resources and to minimise the impact of operations on the environment, and is focused At the AGM in 2011 directors were also granted authority on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and minimising to repurchase the first and second preference stock and the waste, where possible.
The directors have not bought back any of the preference or preferred stock.
Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM will be held on 29 October 2012 at 3.00pm at the Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information Companys registered office.
Separate resolutions will be to Auditors proposed for each substantive issue.
The notice and details of the The directors who were members of the Board at the time of resolutions to be put at the AGM are contained in the separate approving this Report are listed on page 13.
Each of those circular being sent to shareholders with this annual report.
directors confirms that: The directors seek annual authority from the shareholders to l to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no allot new ordinary shares, to disapply the pre-emption rights information relevant to the preparation of their report of of existing shareholders, and to buy back for cancellation or which the Companys auditors are unaware: and to be held in treasury the Companys ordinary shares.
In addition, the directors seek annual authority to buy back and l they have taken all the steps a director might reasonably cancel the Companys preferred and preference stocks.
be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors At the AGM in October 2011 the directors were granted are aware of that information.
authority to issue up to 22,780,984 ordinary shares.
Since the AGM in October 2011, to date 11,250,000 shares have been issued.
All the shares were issued at a premium to the net asset value, the net asset value being calculated with debt at fair value.
At the date of this report the directors have remaining authority to issue a further 11,530,984 shares.
The authorities to issue shares and to disapply pre-emption rights By order of the Board will expire at the conclusion of the AGM in October 2012, when new authorities will be sought.
David Rice ACIS On 24 October 2011 the directors were granted authority to For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited Company Secretary repurchase 34,148,699 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 8,537,175 for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
