DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2012 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS GLOSSARY OF HEDGE FUND STRATEGIES to general stock market movements.
Portfolio Managers use Long Short Equities a range of fundamental and technical investment Long Short Equity strategies generally involve taking both methodologies to identify potential positions, may or may not long and short positions in equity securities that are deemed remain fully invested and use varying degrees of leverage.
to be under or overvalued.
Although the combination of long Some Portfolio Managers assume modest long positions and short investing can provide an element of protection while remaining net short.
against but not eliminate directional market exposure, long short equity Portfolio Managers generally do not attempt Macro to neutralise the amount of long and short positions i. e. they Macro strategies generally involve fundamental, will be net long or net short.
Portfolio Managers may discretionary, directional trading in fixed income, currencies, specialise in a particular industry or may diversify holdings equities and commodities, using futures and other across industries.
Portfolio Managers in this strategy usually derivatives.
Portfolio Managers invest in a wide variety of employ a low to moderate degree of leverage.
strategies and financial instruments, often assuming an aggressive risk posture.
Most Portfolio Managers rely on Long Short Credit macro-economic analyses to invest across countries, Portfolio Managers implementing Long Short Credit markets, sectors and companies.
Futures and options are strategies generally take both long and short positions in often used for hedging and speculation and the use of credit-related instruments, such as corporate bonds, bank leverage varies considerably.
loans, trade claims, emerging market debt and credit derivatives e. g. credit default swaps.
Portfolio Managers Event Driven utilising this strategy usually invest in companies in financial Event Driven strategies generally involve taking sizeable long difficulty, reorganisation or bankruptcy and their portfolios equity positions in individual companies in order to help put are often concentrated in debt instruments.
The use of into effect changes that the Company intended to unlock leverage varies considerably.
Portfolio Managers differ in value that is not currently reflected in the market.
their preference for actively participating in the workout and restructuring process and the extent to which they use Multi-Strategy Opportunistic leverage.
Although Long Short Credit strategies typically Multi-Strategy Opportunistic strategies generally involve involve positions in debt instruments and credit derivatives, Portfolio Managers dynamically allocating capital to specific the Portfolio Managers implementing this strategy perform trades and strategies exhibiting unique risk return extensive research on companies and may use this characteristics in a given market environment.
Trades can be information to invest both long and short in the equity either arbitrage oriented, event-driven, or directional in securities of such companies.
nature and strategies may include long short equities, long short credit, event-driven, special situations, convertible Portfolio Hedge bond arbitrage, capital structure arbitrage, volatility trading, Portfolio Hedge strategies generally seek to profit from fixed income arbitrage and statistical arbitrage.
Prior to 1 declining security prices, through short positions in either the April 2012, the Opportunistic Strategy was named the Multiequity, debt or  derivatives of companies Strategy Opportunistic Strategy.
No managers were rewith unfavourable prospects.
The strategy performs best in categorised as part of this change.
declining markets and therefore is especially attractive in a multi-manager fund to help reduce the funds total exposure 71
