Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Corporate information equity to reflect this contribution from a shareholder.
In addition there was a further contribution of 6.3 million in respect Direct Line Insurance Group plc is a public limited company of overseas taxation.
The comparatives for the year ended incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The address of the 31 December 2011 have been prepared on the same basis.
registered office is Churchill Court, Westmoreland Road, Bromley, BR1 1DP, England.
The effect of the above on the Group profit for the year ended 31 December 2012 was to decrease profit after tax 1.
Accounting policies by 30.9 million, 31 December 2011: 55.9 million with an equal and opposite credit in the statement of changes in Basis of preparation equity.
There was no impact on net assets at 1 January 2011 As required by the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of or 31 December 2011, and accordingly no balance sheet the EU IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements at 1 January 2011 has been provided.
are prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB as adopted by the EU.
The financial statements have been Adoption of new and revised standards prepared in accordance with and full compliance with IFRSs There have been no new or revised standards adopted in as issued by the IASB.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the 1.1 Basis of consolidation historical cost basis except for available-for-sale financial The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial assets, investment property and derivative financial instruments, statements of the Company and the entities that are controlled which are measured at fair value.
by the Group at 31 December 2012 and 2011.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial The Companys financial statements and the Groups and operating policies of an entity.
In assessing if the Group consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds controls another entity, the existence and effect of the potential Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company.
voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered.
The Group in its current structure was formed on 2 April 2012 when the Company acquired Direct Line Versicherung AG from Where necessary, adjustments have been made to the a fellow subsidiary of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc.
financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting Therefore the basis of preparation represents a reorganisation policies used into line with those used by the Group.
of entities under common control, which is outside the scope The policies set out below have been applied consistently of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Accordingly, as permitted throughout the years ended 2012 and 2011 to items by IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting considered material to the consolidated financial information.
Estimates and Errors, it has been accounted for as a group reconstruction as described in Financial Reporting Standard A subsidiary acquired is included in the consolidated financial 6, Acquisitions and Mergers.
The consolidated financial statements from the date it is controlled by the Group until statements have been prepared as if the transaction that the date the Group ceases to control it.
On acquisition of gave rise to the formation of the Group had taken place a subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent at the beginning of the comparative period.
Under these liabilities are included in the consolidated financial statements principles, the consolidated financial statements have been at fair value.
prepared as if the Company were the holding company of All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses Direct Line Versicherung AG from 1 January 2011, the date between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
of the beginning of the comparative period.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared using As part of the divestment from RBS Group, the way in which consistent accounting policies.
expenses incurred by RBS Group on behalf of the Group changed.
Up until 30 June 2012, only some of these expenses were recharged to the Group by RBS Group.
From 1 July 2012, some of the services previously provided by RBS Group have been brought in-house and so the expense is now incurred directly by the Group and reflected in expenses in the income statement: other services are still provided by RBS Group under a transitional services agreement TSA and the expense of these is charged to the Group.
In order to aid comparability, the Groups accounting policy has been changed so that all expenses are included within the income statement.
For the avoidance of doubt, this includes external costs incurred by the Group and costs incurred by RBS Group, irrespective of whether RBS Group recharged them to the Group.
In the case of expenses incurred by RBS Group and not recharged to the Group, a capital contribution has been credited to retained earnings in the statement of changes in Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued premiums are shown gross of any commission payable to intermediaries or other parties.
1.2 Foreign currencies The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented Premiums collected by intermediaries or other parties, in Pounds Sterling which is the presentational currency of the but not yet received, are assessed based on estimates from Group.
Group entities record transactions in the currency underwriting or past experience, and are included in insurance of the primary economic environment in which they operate premiums.
Insurance premiums exclude insurance premium their functional currency, translated at the foreign exchange tax or equivalent local taxes and are shown gross of any rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and commission payable to intermediaries or other parties.
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into The Groups long-term assurance contracts include whole-life the relevant functional currency at the foreign exchange rates and term assurance contracts that are expected to remain in ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences force for an extended period of time.
These contracts insure arising on the settlement of foreign currency transactions events associated with human life for example, death or the and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities are occurrence of a critical illness.
These are recognised as reported in the income statement except for differences arising revenue when they become payable by the contract holder.
on hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
NonPremiums are shown before the deduction of commission.
monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into the relevant functional Investment return currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the Interest income on financial assets is determined using the values are determined.
Translation differences arising on noneffective interest rate method.
The effective interest rate method monetary items measured at fair value are recognised in the is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset income statement except for differences arising on availableor group of financial assets and of allocating the interest for-sale non-monetary financial assets, for example equity income over the expected life of the asset.
In the case of shares, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
financial assets classified as available for sale, estimates are based on the straight-line method, which the directors Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill have determined is a close approximation to the effective and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated interest rate.
into Pounds Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses of foreign Rental income from investment property is recognised in operations are translated into Pounds Sterling at average the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period exchange rates unless these do not approximate the foreign of the contract.
Any gains or losses arising from a change exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation are recognised in the consolidated statement of other Instalment income comprehensive income.
The amount accumulated in equity is Instalment income comprises the interest income earned reclassified from equity to the consolidated income statement on policyholder receivables, where outstanding premiums on disposal or partial disposal of a foreign operation.
are settled by a series of instalment payments.
Interest is earned using an effective interest rate method over the term 1.3 Contract classification of the policy.
Insurance contracts are those contracts where the Group the insurer has accepted significant insurance risk from Other operating income another party the policyholder by agreeing to compensate Solicitors referral fee income the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event Revenue relating to this activity is recognised when the service the insured event adversely affects the policyholder.
The provision of these services is contractual and the associated cost is recognised when incurred.
Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, it remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, Vehicle replacement referral income even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this Vehicle replacement referral fee income comprises fees in period, unless all rights and obligations are extinguished.
respect of referral income received when a customer or a non-fault policy holder claimant of another insurer has 1.4 Revenue recognition been provided with a hire vehicle from a preferred supplier.
Premiums earned Insurance and reinsurance premiums comprise the total Income is recognised immediately when the customer or premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided claimant is provided with the hire vehicle.
by contracts incepted during the financial year, adjusted by an unearned premium provision, which represents the proportion Revenue from vehicle recovery and repairs services of the premiums incepted in prior periods and that relate to Fees in respect of services for vehicle recovery are recognised periods of insurance after the balance sheet date.
Unearned as the right to consideration, and accrue through the provision premiums are calculated over the period of exposure under of the service to the customer.
The arrangements are generally the policy, on a daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for the contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred estimated incidence of exposure under policies.
Insurance as the service is rendered.
The price is usually fixed and always determinable.
104 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements The Groups income also comprises vehicle repair services The calculation is particularly sensitive to the estimation of the provided to other third-party customers.
Income in respect ultimate cost of claims for the particular classes of business of repairs to vehicles is recognised upon completion of the at gross and net levels and the estimation of future claims service.
The price is determined using market rates for the handling costs.
services and materials used after discounts have been Actual claims experience may differ from the historical pattern deducted where applicable.
on which the actuarial best estimate is based and the cost Management systems income represents the sale of tracking of settling individual claims may exceed that assumed.
units, installation services and monitoring services.
Revenue As a result, the Group sets provisions at a margin above is recognised immediately, with the exception of the nonthe actuarial best estimate.
This amount is recorded as cancellable network subscriptions receivable in advance, claims provisions.
which are classified as deferred income in the balance sheet A liability adequacy provision is made for unexpired risks and recognised on a straight-line basis over the stated term arising where the expected value of net claims and expenses of the subscription.
attributable to the unexpired periods of policies in force at the Other income balance sheet date exceeds the unearned premium reserve in Commission fee income in respect of services is recognised relation to such policies after the deduction of any acquisition when a policy has been placed and incepted.
Income is costs deferred and other prepaid amounts for example, stated excluding applicable sales taxes.
The expected value is determined by reference to recent experience and allowing for changes to the premium 1.5 Insurance claims rates.
The provision for unexpired risks is calculated separately Insurance claims are recognised in the accounting period in by reference to classes of business that are managed together which the loss occurs.
Provision is made for the full cost of after taking account of relevant investment returns.
settling outstanding claims at the balance sheet date, including claims incurred but not yet reported at that date, net of salvage 1.6 Reinsurance and subrogation recoveries.
Outstanding claims provisions are The Group has reinsurance treaties and other reinsurance not discounted for the time value of money except for claims contracts that transfer significant insurance risk.
to be settled by PPOs established under the Courts Act 2003.
The Group cedes insurance risk by reinsurance in the normal A UK court can award damages for future pecuniary loss in course of business, with the arrangement and retention limits respect of personal injury or for other damages in respect of varying by product line.
Outward reinsurance premiums are personal injury and may order that the damages are wholly generally accounted for in the same accounting period as or partly to take the form of PPOs.
These are covered in more the premiums for the related direct business being reinsured.
Costs for both direct and indirect claims Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same handling expenses are also included.
accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate.
Provisions are determined by management based on Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurance experience of claims settled and on statistical models which companies for ceded insurance liabilities.
Amounts recoverable require certain assumptions to be made regarding the from reinsurers are estimated in a consistent manner with the incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated with factors such as adverse weather conditions.
When calculating the reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant the total provision required, the historical development of reinsurance contract.
Recoveries in respect of PPOs are claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, discounted for the time value of money.
within acceptable probability parameters, the value of outstanding claims gross and net at the balance sheet date.
A reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed in respect of Also included in the estimation of outstanding claims are reinsurance debtors, to allow for the risk that the reinsurance factors such as the potential for judicial or legislative inflation.
asset may not be collected or where the reinsurers credit rating In addition, an allowance is made for reinsurance assets has been downgraded significantly.
This also includes an deemed not recoverable.
assessment in respect of the ceded part of claims provisions to reflect the credit risk exposure to long-term reinsurance assets Provisions for more recent claims make use of techniques particularly in relation to periodical payments.
This is affected that incorporate expected loss ratios and average claims by the Group reducing the carrying value of the asset cost adjusted for inflation and frequency methods.
As claims accordingly and the impairment loss is recognised in mature, the provisions are increasingly driven by methods the income statement.
based on actual claim experience.
The approach adopted takes into account the nature, type and significance of the business and the type of data available, with large claims generally being assessed separately.
The data used for statistical modelling purposes is generated internally and reconciled to the accounting data.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the depreciable amount 1.7 Deferred acquisition costs of property, plant and equipment over their estimated useful Acquisition costs relating to new and renewing insurance lives.
The depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its policies are matched with the earning of the premiums to residual value.
Estimated useful lives which they relate.
A proportion of acquisition costs incurred are as follows: during the year is therefore deferred to the subsequent accounting period to match the extent to which premiums Freehold and long 50 years or the period of the written during the year are unearned at the balance leasehold buildings lease if shorter sheet date.
Vehicles 5 years The principal acquisition costs deferred are direct advertising Computer equipment Up to 5 years expenditure, administration costs, commission paid and costs associated with telesales and underwriting staff.
Other equipment, including 4 to 15 years property adaptation costs 1.8 Goodwill and other intangible assets Acquired goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of between the disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying the subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired, is initially amount of the item.
recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on the 1.10 Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and property, acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures is plant and equipment included in the balance sheet category goodwill and other At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is intangible assets.
The gain or loss on the disposal of a any indication that its intangible assets, goodwill or property, subsidiary, associate or joint venture includes the carrying plant and equipment are impaired.
If any such indication value of any related goodwill.
exists, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the asset and the impairment loss, if any.
Goodwill is tested for Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
If an asset Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the does not generate cash flows that are independent of those assets economic lives using methods that best reflect the of other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount pattern of economic benefits and is included in other operating is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset expenses.
The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: belongs.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in Software development costs 5 years use is the present value of future cash flows from the asset or Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is cash-generating unit, discounted at a rate that reflects market written off as incurred.
Direct costs relating to the development interest rates, adjusted for risks specific to the asset or cashof internal-use computer software and associated business generating unit that have not been reflected in the estimation processes are capitalised once technical feasibility and of future cash flows.
economic viability have been established.
These costs include If the recoverable amount of an intangible or a tangible asset payroll costs, the costs of materials and services, and directly is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised attributable overheads.
Capitalisation of costs ceases when the immediately in the income statement and the carrying value software is capable of operating as intended.
During and after of the asset is reduced by the amount of the impairment loss.
development, accumulated costs are reviewed for impairment against the projected benefits that the software is expected to A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets or generate.
Costs incurred prior to the establishment of technical property, plant and equipment is recognised as it arises feasibility and economic viability are expensed as incurred provided the increased carrying value does not exceed as are all training costs and general overheads.
The costs of the carrying amount that would have been determined had licences to use computer software that is expected to generate no impairment loss been recognised.
Impairment losses on economic benefits beyond one year are also capitalised.
1.9 Property, plant and equipment 1.11 Investment property Items of property, plant and equipment except investment Investment property comprises freehold and long-leasehold property see accounting policy 1.11 are stated at cost properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Investment property is not depreciated an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major but is stated at fair value based on valuations by independent components having different useful lives, they are accounted registered valuers.
Fair value is based on current prices for for separately.
similar properties in the same location and condition.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in the income statement.
106 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements Investment property is derecognised either when it has been provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market disposed of, or permanently withdrawn from use and no future transactions, the Group uses that technique.
economic benefit is expected from disposal.
Any gains or losses The fair value of other investments that do not have a quoted on the retirement or disposal of investment property are market price in an active market and derivatives that are linked recognised in the income statement in the year of retirement to and must be settled by delivery of such an unquoted equity or disposal.
instrument are reliably measurable if: 1.12 Financial assets a the variability in the range of reasonable fair value Financial assets are classified as held-to-maturity,  is not significant for that instrument: or sale and designated at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and receivables.
The Group only has available-for-sale b the probabilities of the various estimates within the financial assets and loans and receivables.
range can be reasonably assessed and used in estimating fair value.
Available-for-sale Financial assets that are not classified as loans and receivables, are classified as available-for-sale.
Loans and receivables Non-derivative financial assets with Financial assets can be designated as available-for-sale on fixed or determinable repayments that are not quoted in an initial recognition.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially active market are classified as loans and receivables, except recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
those that are classified as available-for-sale.
Loans and They are subsequently measured at fair value.
Impairment receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus directly losses and exchange differences resulting from retranslating the related transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost of foreign currency monetary available-for-sale amortised cost using the effective interest rate method less financial assets are recognised in the income statement, any impairment losses.
together with interest calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Other changes in the fair value of available-for-sale Insurance receivables comprise outstanding insurance financial assets are reported in a separate component of premiums where the policyholders have elected to pay shareholders equity until disposal, when the cumulative gain in instalments, or amounts due from third parties where or loss is recognised in the income statement.
they have collected or are due to collect the money from the policyholder.
Regular way purchases of financial assets classified as loans and receivables are recognised on settlement date: all other Other loans and receivables principally comprise loans to regular way purchases are recognised on trade date.
related parties and other debtors.
A financial asset is regarded as quoted in an active market Impairment of financial assets if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and of financial assets classified as available-for-sale or loans regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length and receivables is impaired.
A financial asset or portfolio of basis.
The appropriate quoted market price for an asset held financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss incurred is usually the current bid price.
When current bid prices are if there is objective evidence that an event or events since unavailable, the price of the most recent transaction provides initial recognition of the asset has adversely affected the evidence of the current fair value as long as there has not amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
been a significant change in economic circumstances since the time of the transaction.
If conditions have changed since Available-for-sale When a decline in the fair value of the time of the transaction for example, a change in the riska financial asset classified as available-for-sale has been free interest rate following the most recent price quote for a recognised directly in equity and there is objective evidence that corporate bond, the fair value reflects the change in the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss is removed from equity conditions by reference to current prices or rates for similar and recognised in the income statement.
The loss is measured as financial instruments, as appropriate.
the difference between the amortised cost of the financial asset and its current fair value.
Impairment losses on available-for-sale The valuation methodology described above uses observable equity instruments are not reversed through profit or loss, but market data.
those on available-for-sale debt instruments are reversed, if there is an increase in fair value that is objectively related to If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group a subsequent event.
Subsequent increases in the fair value establishes the fair value by using a valuation technique.
of available-for-sale other investment funds are all recognised Valuation techniques include using recent arms length in equity.
market transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties if available, reference to the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
If there is a valuation technique commonly used by market participants to price the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued well as derivatives may be the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge.
Loans and receivables If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of financial In a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or assets classified as loans and receivables has been incurred, loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity.
the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets In a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging and the present value of estimated future cash flows from the instrument is recognised in the income statement.
The gain asset or group of assets, discounted at the effective interest or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is rate of the instrument at initial recognition.
recognised in the income statement and, where the hedged Impairment losses are assessed individually where significant item is measured at amortised cost, adjusts the carrying or collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
amount of the hedged item.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement and Derecognition of financial assets the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive assets is reduced by establishing an allowance for the the cash flows from that asset have expired or when the impairment losses.
If in a subsequent period the amount of the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to asset and has transferred substantially all the risk and rewards an event after the impairment was recognised, the previously of ownership of the asset.
recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
1.13 Cash and cash equivalents For amounts due from policyholders, the bad debt provision is Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and calculated based upon prior loss experience.
For all balances demand deposits with banks together with short-term highly outstanding in excess of three months, a bad debt provision liquid investments that are readily convertible to known is made.
Where a policy is subsequently cancelled, the amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of change outstanding debt that is overdue is written off to the income in value.
statement and the bad debt provision is written back to the Borrowings, comprising bank overdrafts and group loans, income statement.
are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest Derivatives and hedging rate method.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially, and 1.14 Financial liabilities subsequently measured, at fair value.
Derivative fair values Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value net are determined from quoted prices in active markets where of transaction costs incurred.
Other than derivatives which available.
Where there is no active market for an instrument, are recognised and measured at fair value, all other financial fair value is derived from prices for the derivatives components liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using using appropriate pricing or valuation models.
the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of a A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation derivative are recognised as they arise in the income statement under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
unless the derivative is the hedging instrument in a qualifying hedge.
The Group currently enters into a number of hedge 1.15 Subordinated liabilities relationships, including net investment, cash flow and fair Subordinated liabilities comprise subordinated dated loan value hedges.
notes and undated loans, which are initially measured at the consideration received less related transaction costs.
Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.
Subsequently, subordinated liabilities are measured at The documentation identifies the hedged item and the hedging amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
instrument and details the risk that is being hedged and the way in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception and 1.16 Provisions during the period of the hedge.
If the hedge is not highly The Group recognises a provision for a present legal or effective in offsetting changes in cash flows and fair values constructive obligation from a past event when it is more likely attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the documented than not that it will be required to transfer economic benefits to risk management strategy, or if the hedging instrument settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued.
Restructuring provisions are made, including redundancy costs, when the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure.
An In the hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, the obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal plan portion of foreign exchange differences arising on the hedging and has communicated the plan to those affected by the plan.
instrument determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective portion is recognised in When the Group has an onerous contract, it recognises the the income statement.
Non-derivative financial liabilities as present obligation under the contract as a provision.
A contract is onerous when the unavoidable costs of meeting the 108 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements contractual obligations exceed the expected economic benefit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable A provision is recognised when the Group vacates a leasehold temporary timing differences and deferred tax assets are property for the costs under the lease which exceed expected recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits economic benefits.
will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The Group accrues for all insurance industry levies, such as the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and Motor Insurance Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date Bureau in the UK, as a provision in the balance sheet and not and reduced to the extent that it is probable that they will not within insurance liabilities.
The levy accruals are based on past be recovered.
underwriting levels at the best estimate rate given the available Deferred tax liabilities are calculated at the tax rates expected information at the balance sheet date.
to apply when the liability is settled and deferred tax assets 1.17 Leases based on laws and rates that have been enacted or Payments made under operating leases are charged to the substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of is charged or credited in the income statement, except when the lease.
it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in 1.18 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits other comprehensive income.
The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form of pensions and healthcare plans to eligible employees.
1.20 Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share-based compensation Contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension schemes under which it awards Company shares and share scheme are recognised in the income statement when payable.
Such awards are generally subject As described in note 33, the Groups defined benefit pension to vesting conditions: conditions that vary the amount of cash scheme was closed in 2003.
Scheme liabilities are measured or shares to which an employee is entitled.
on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method and discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return Vesting conditions include service conditions requiring the on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and employee to complete a specified period of service and currency to the scheme liabilities.
performance conditions requiring the employee to meet specified performance targets.
Scheme assets are measured at their fair value.
Any surplus or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in The fair value of options granted is estimated using valuation the balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability deficit.
techniques which incorporate exercise price, term, risk-free The current service cost and any past service costs together interest rates, the current share price and its expected volatility.
with the expected return on scheme assets, less the unwinding The cost of employee services received in exchange for an of the discount on the scheme liabilities, is charged to award of shares or share options granted is measured by operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised reference to the fair value of the shares or share options on the in full in the period in which they occur outside the income date the award is granted and takes into account non-vesting statement and presented in other comprehensive income.
conditions and market performance conditions conditions 1.19 Taxation related to the market price of the Companys shares.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable The cost is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting and deferred tax.
period the period during which all the specified vesting The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for conditions must be satisfied with a corresponding increase in the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax equity in an equity-settled award, or a corresponding liability legislation, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
The cost is adjusted for vesting Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income conditions other than market performance conditions so as to statement because it excludes items of income or expense that reflect the number of shares or share options that actually vest.
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Provision for taxation is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and is allocated over profits before taxation and amounts charged or credited to components of other comprehensive income and equity, as appropriate.
Deferred taxation is accounted for in full using the balance sheet liability method on all temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability for accounting purposes and its carrying amount for tax purposes.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, which supersedes IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures, was issued by the IASB in May 1.21 Capital instruments 2011.
Joint operations are accounted for by the investor The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as recognising its assets and liabilities including its share of a financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with any assets held and liabilities incurred jointly and its share the substance of the contractual arrangement.
An instrument is of revenues and costs.
Joint ventures are accounted for in classified as a liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver the investors consolidated accounts using the equity method.
cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or financial liabilities on potentially unfavourable terms, or as or after 1 January 2013 but as the Group does not have equity if it evidences a residual interest in the assets of the any joint arrangements at this time, it is not expected to group after the deduction of liabilities.
have any effect on the Group.
The consideration for any ordinary share of the Company In May 2011 the IASB issued amendments to IAS 28 purchased by the Group employee trust shares is deducted Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures to cover joint from equity.
On the cancellation of employee trust shares ventures as well as associates: both must be accounted for their nominal value is removed from equity and any excess using the equity method.
The mechanics of the equity method of consideration over nominal value is treated in accordance are unchanged.
Effective for annual periods beginning on or with the capital maintenance provision of the Companies after 1 January 2013, the amendments to this standard are Act 2006.
On the sale or reissue of employee trust shares not expected to have any effect on the Group.
the consideration received is credited to equity, net of any directly attributable incremental costs and related tax.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities covers disclosures for entities reporting under IFRS 10 and IFRS 11, 1.22 Dividends replacing requirements in IAS 28 and IAS 27, and was issued Interim dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in by the IASB in May 2011.
Entities are required to disclose equity in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends information that helps financial statement readers evaluate the on ordinary shares are recognised when they have been nature, risks and financial effects associated with an entitys approved at the AGM.
interests in subsidiaries, in associates and joint arrangements and in unconsolidated structured entities.
The new standard 1.23 Accounting developments is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January The IASB issued an amendment to IAS 12 Income Taxes 2013, and is not expected to have any effect on the Group.
in December 2010 to clarify that recognition of deferred tax should have regard to the expected manner of recovery In May 2011 the IASB issued IFRS 13 Fair Value or settlement of the asset or liability.
The amendment and Measurement which sets out a single IFRS framework for consequential withdrawal of SIC 21 Deferred Tax: Recovery defining and measuring fair value and requiring disclosures of Underlying Assets, effective for annual periods beginning about fair value measurements, effective for annual periods on or after 1 January 2012, will not have a material effect beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The new standard will on the Group.
have an impact on the quantitative and qualitative disclosure requirements of financial assets and liabilities of the Group that IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, which replaces are not covered by IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities and the consolidation elements of the existing IAS 27 Consolidated In June 2011 the IASB issued amendments to IAS 1 and Separate Financial Statements, was issued by the IASB Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income which in May 2011.
The new standard adopts a single definition require items that will never be recognised in the income of control: a reporting entity controls another entity when the statement to be presented in other comprehensive income reporting entity has the power to direct the activities of that separately from those that are subject to subsequent other entity to generate returns for the reporting entity.
The amendments are effective for annual for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, the periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012, and will have an new standard is not expected to have any effect on the Group.
impact on the disclosure requirements of the Groups financial statements commencing on 1 January 2013.
In May 2011 the IASB issued amendments to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements which comprises those parts of the existing IAS 27 that dealt with separate financial statements, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The amendment to this standard is not expected to have any effect on the Group.
110 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits require the 2.
Critical accounting estimates immediate recognition of all actuarial gains and losses and judgements eliminating the corridor approach: interest costs to be The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the calculated on the net pension liability or asset at the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie appropriate corporate bond rate: and all past service costs the preparation of its financial information.
The Groups to be recognised immediately when a scheme is curtailed or principal accounting policies are set out on pages 103 to amended.
The amendments are effective for annual periods 111.
UK company law and IFRSs require the Directors, in beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Earlier application preparing the Groups financial statements, to select suitable is permitted.
The Group is reviewing the amendments to accounting policies, apply them consistently and make determine their effect on the Groups financial reporting.
judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
The new standard is not expected to have any material In the absence of an applicable standard or interpretation, effect on the Group.
IAS 8 requires management to develop and apply an In December 2011 the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 7 accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable Financial Instruments: Disclosure Offsetting Financial Assets information in the light of the requirements and guidance in and Financial Liabilities.
The amended disclosure requirements IFRS dealing with similar and related issues and the IASBs are intended to enable the evaluation of the effect or potential Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial effect of netting arrangements as permitted by IAS 32 Statements.
The judgements and assumptions involved in paragraph 42, on the financial statements.
The amendments the Groups accounting policies that are considered by the are effective for annual periods beginning on or after Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial 1 January 2013 and are not expected to have any effect condition are discussed below.
The use of estimates, on the Group.
assumptions or models that differ from those adopted by the Group would affect its reported results.
In December 2011 the IASB amended IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation for the section dealing with offsetting 2.1 General insurance: outstanding claims provisions and a financial asset and a financial liability.
Effective for annual related reinsurance recoveries periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, to be applied The Group makes provision for the full cost of outstanding retrospectively, this amendment is not expected to have any claims from its general insurance business at the balance effect on the Group.
sheet date, including claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported at that date and loss adjustment The IASB has published IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: expenses.
Outstanding claims provisions net of related Recognition and Measurement that will apply to financial reinsurance recoveries and liability adequacy provision years beginning on 1 January 2015.
The new standard has at 31 December 2012 amounted to 5,377.6 million not been adopted by the EU.
The standard is a complete 2011: 5,807.7 million.
revision and will replace the current standard IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The standard The most common method of settling bodily injury claims is by reduces the number of valuation categories for financial assets a lump sum paid to the claimant and in the cases where this and means that they are recognised at amortised cost or fair includes an element of indemnity for recurring costs such as value through profit or loss.
The rules for financial liabilities loss of earnings or ongoing medical care, settlement normally correspond to the existing rules in IAS 39 plus a supplement occurs using a standardised Ogden annuity factor at a on how credit risk is presented when financial liabilities discount rate of 2.5%.
This is normally referred to as the are measured at fair value.
The change in the credit risk for Ogden discount rate which is a prescribed rate set by the financial liabilities designated at fair value according to the Ministry of Justice.
Other estimates are also required for case so-called fair value option is normally presented in other management expenses, loss of pension, court protection fees, comprehensive income and not in the income statement, alterations to accommodation and transportation fees.
provided that further inconsistencies do not arise in In August 2012, the Ministry of Justice announced a review presentation of any eliminated changes in value.
of the approach to setting the Ogden discount rate within The standard will be complemented by new rules for the existing legal framework in light of the current economic impairment of financial assets that are categorised as financial climate.
The consultation has now taken place and the assets at amortised cost and new rules for hedge accounting.
In addition, in February 2013, a further The adoption of IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and consultation has been initiated on the legal framework within disclosures of financial instruments the Group does not plan which the rate is set as well as consideration of the usage of to adopt this before the year beginning on 1 January 2015.
PPOs as a form of settlement.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued The Group holds provisions for a reduction in the Ogden discount rate at 31 December 2012 to 1.5% 2011: 1.5%, excluding PPOs, which are reserved for separately.
A reduction in the Ogden discount rate would reduce the amount by which the cost of settling a claim as a PPO exceeds a lump sum settlement and this offset is allowed for in the provision.
Outstanding claims provisions based on expected future settled amounts, are not discounted from settlement date to valuation date except for those in respect of PPOs under the Courts Act 2003.
PPOs give rise to additional claims costs which are in excess of those calculated based on the Ogden tables and discounting is applied to the total cost of the PPO and not just the additional cost.
The following table provides information regarding the outstanding claims provisions in respect of PPOs on a discounted and undiscounted basis.
These represent the total cost of PPOs rather than any costs in excess of purely Ogden-based settlement.
Discounted Undiscounted Discounted Undiscounted 2012 2012 2011 2011 At 31 December m m m m Gross claims Approved PPO claims provisions 300.5 918.3 203.9 730.4 Anticipated PPOs 962.9 2,778.6 962.6 3,126.5 Total gross 1,263.4 3,696.9 1,166.5 3,856.9 Reinsurance Approved PPO claims provisions 175.5 573.3 123.6 485.3 Anticipated PPOs 270.0 1,074.4 207.6 966.7 Total reinsurance 445.5 1,647.7 331.2 1,452.0 Net of reinsurance Approved PPO claims provisions 125.0 345.0 80.3 245.1 Anticipated PPOs 692.9 1,704.2 755.0 2,159.8 Total net 817.9 2,049.2 835.3 2,404.9 The table above shows the discounted and undiscounted provision estimates for PPO claims split between those which have already settled as PPOs approved PPO claims reserves and those expected to settle as PPOs in the future anticipated PPOs.
Anticipated PPOs consists of both existing large loss case reserves including estimated incurred but not reported IBNR on these claims as well as claims yet to be reported to the Group.
The results are produced from cash flow projections of individual PPO claims.
For settled PPOs, these projections allow for the terms of settlement including assumed future life expectancy and indexation.
Both the Groups and the claimants medical expert advice of life expectancy are considered.
Reinsurance is applied at claim level and the net cash flows are discounted for the time value of money.
The discount rate is consistent with the long duration of the claims payments and the assumed future indexation of the claims payments.
Future PPO settlements are estimated using a similar projection of cash flows based on a sample of the claim characteristics from settled PPOs adjusted for timing differences.
In the majority of cases the inflation index agreed in the settlement is the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings inflation, for which the long-term rate is assumed to be 4.0% 2011: 4.5%.
The rate of interest used for the calculation of present values is 4.0% 2011: 4.5%, which results in a real discount rate of 0.0% 2011: 0.0%.
All future payments in respect of approved PPOs are discounted to the current valuation date.
All future payments in respect of anticipated PPO claims are discounted to the assumed settlement date of each claim, rather than the current valuation date.
Details of sensitivity analysis to the discount rate applied to PPO claims are shown in note 3.3.
2.2 Impairment provisions financial assets Available-for-sale the Group determines that available-for-sale financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence that an event or events since initial recognition of the assets have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
The determination of which events could have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset requires judgement.
In making this judgement, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the normal price volatility of the financial asset, the financial health of the investee, industry and sector performance, changes in technology and operational and financing cash flow or where there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost.
Impairment may be appropriate when there is evidence of deterioration in these factors.
11 2 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements On a quarterly basis, the Group reviews whether there is any objective evidence that the direct investments in debt securities are impaired based on the following criteria: price performance of a particular debt security, or group of debt securities, demonstrating an adverse trend compared to the market as a whole: adverse movements in the credit rating for corporate debt: actual, or imminent, default on coupon interest or nominal: or offer on buyback of perpetual bonds below par value.
Impairment provision charges on available-for-sale financial assets at 31 December 2012 amounted to nil 2011: 2.0 million.
Had all the declines in available-for-sale asset values met the criteria above at 31 December 2012, the Group would suffer a further 21.5 million loss 2011: 37.3 million loss, being the transfer of the total available-for-sale reserve for unrealised losses to the income statement.
These movements represent mark to market movements and where there is no objective evidence of any loss events that could affect future cash flows, no impairments are recorded for these movements.
2.3 Fair value Financial assets classified as available for sale are recognised in the financial statements at fair value.
In the balance sheet, financial assets carried at fair value are included within available-for-sale debt securities and other investment funds.
Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale financial assets are recognised directly in other comprehensive income unless an impairment loss is recognised.
The fair value of all available-for-sale financial assets was determined using observable market input and at 31 December 2012 amounted to 7,156.5 million 2011: 7,990.7 million.
The judgements and assumptions adopted by the directors in the valuation of available-for-sale financial assets when a market is not active require the use of valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques involve a degree of estimation and are shown in note 1.12.
Details of sensitivity analysis are shown in note 3.4.
2.4 Deferred acquisition costs The Group defers a proportion of acquisition costs incurred during the year to subsequent accounting periods.
Management use estimation techniques to determine the level of costs to be deferred, by category of business.
Judgement is used to determine the types of cost that can be deferred and these are referred to in note 1.7.
The total deferred acquisition costs at 31 December 2012 amounted to 327.6 million 2011: 310.5 million.
During 2012, the Group reviewed the costs included in the calculation of deferred acquisition costs and considers them to be appropriate, and has determined that they are recoverable.
2.5 Goodwill The Group capitalises goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses as discussed in note 1.8.
The carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2012 was 211.0 million 2011: 211.0 million.
Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of its net assets.
The determination of the fair value of assets and liabilities of businesses acquired requires the exercise of management judgement: for example those financial assets and liabilities for which there are no quoted prices and those non-financial assets where valuations reflect estimates of market conditions, such as property.
Different fair values would result in changes to the goodwill arising and to the post-acquisition performance of the acquisition.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups cashgenerating units or groups of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill impairment testing involves the comparison of the carrying value of a cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the units fair value and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units.
Fair value is the amount obtainable from the sale of the cash-generating unit in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties.
Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgemental areas: the preparation of cash flow forecasts for periods that are beyond the normal requirements of management reporting: the assessment of the discount rate appropriate to the business: estimation of the fair value of cash-generating units: and the valuation of the separable assets of each business whose goodwill is being reviewed.
Details of sensitivity analysis are shown in note 16.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 11 3 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management 3.1 Enterprise-Wide Risk Management framework The ERM framework within the Group is designed to ensure that risk management is a forward-looking discipline, focused on facilitating appropriate and fair outcomes on a consistent and reliable basis for all stakeholders.
The ERM process provides the Group with a consistent and holistic view of risk management.
Further information can be found in the Risk management section on page 26.
3.2 Risk and capital management modelling The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group has sufficient capital to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Group carries out detailed capital modelling of its assets, liabilities and the key risks to which these are exposed.
This modelling includes the Groups own assessment of its capital requirements for solvency purposes, in its submission of its ICA to the FSA in respect of its UK regulated entities.
The ICA quantifies the insurance, market, credit, liquidity, operational and group risk that the UK regulated entities are undertaking.
The Board is closely involved in the ICA process and signs off on its assumptions and results.
3.3 Insurance risk Insurance risk can arise from: fluctuations in the timing, frequency and severity of insured events and their ultimate settlement, relative to the expectations of the Group at the time of underwriting, including those driven by inaccurate pricing, inappropriate underwriting guidelines and terms and conditions, and holding inadequate reserves: inadequate reinsurance protection: and concentration of business leading to unexpected claim levels frequency and severity from a single source.
The Group predominantly underwrites personal lines insurance including residential property, motor, assistance, creditor, travel and pet business.
The Group also underwrites commercial risks primarily for low-to-medium risk trades within the SME market.
Contracts are typically issued on an annual basis, which means that the Groups liability usually extends for a 12-month period, after which the Group is entitled to decline to renew or can impose renewal terms by amending the premium or other policy terms and conditions such as the excess as appropriate.
The Group underwrites long-term insurance falling within the business classes of life and annuity and permanent health.
However, from 6 July 2011 the Group ceased accepting new business.
The products provided include mortgage life cover, fixed term life cover with critical illness, over 50s life cover and the life cover associated with the creditor business underwritten by the Groups general insurance business.
Contracts were issued typically on a long-term basis, which means that the Groups liability can extend for a period ranging from five years up to 52 years.
For creditor insurance, contracts were issued either on a monthly renewable basis regular premium, which can be amended or cancelled by the customer at any point during the contract, or cover period of a loan single premium.
In the former case, the Group can cancel or amend the policy following a 90-day written notice period.
In the latter case these policies were withdrawn from sale in April 2009, the customer has the option to cancel the contract at any point but generally the Group is obligated for the full term up to a maximum of 10 years, but typically three to five years.
1 Reserving risk Reserving risk relates to both premiums and claims.
It is the risk that reserves are assessed incorrectly such that either insufficient funds have been retained to pay or handle claims as the amounts fall due both in relation to those claims which have already been incurred in relation to claims reserves or will be incurred in future periods of insurance in relation to premium reserves, or a surplus of funds has been retained resulting in opportunity costs.
Reserving risk is controlled through a range of processes: regular periodic reviews of the claims and premium liability adequacy reserves for the main classes of business by the internal actuarial team: the use of external actuaries to review periodically the actuarial best estimate reserves produced internally, either through peer review or through provision of independent reserve estimates: accompanying all reserve reviews with actuarial assessment of the uncertainties through a variety of techniques including bootstrapping and scenario analysis: oversight of the reserving process by relevant senior management and the Board: 114 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements regular reconciliation of the data used in the actuarial reviews against general ledger data and reconciliation of the claims data history against the equivalent data from prior reviews: and assessing the volatility in the reserves to help the Board set management best estimate reserves which it feels comfortable with.
As referred to on page 28, uncertainty in claims reserve estimation is larger for claims such as PPOs for which annually indexed payments are made periodically over several years or even the lifetime of the injured party.
Claims reserves for PPOs are held on a discounted basis and the table below indicates the sensitivity of discounted reserves to changes in the discount rate.
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table could have an additional financial impact on the Group.
Increase decrease Increase decrease in total equity at in income statement 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m 1 PPOs Impact of an increase in the discount rate used in the calculation of present values of 100bps 104.7 106.5 104.7 106.5 Impact of a decrease in the discount rate used in the calculation of present values of 100bps 150.4 152.1 150.4 152.1 Notes: 1.
The sensitivities relating to an increase or decrease in the discount rate used for PPOs illustrate a movement in the time value of money from the assumed level of 4%.
An increase in the discount rate reflects a decrease in the time value of money and therefore the present value of future liabilities which increases the total equity which would be reflected in the income statement.
The selection of these sensitivities should not be interpreted as a prediction.
The sensitivities set out above reflect one-off impacts at 31 December.
The sensitivities set out above exclude the impact of taxation.
2 Claims management risk Claims management risk is the risk that claims are paid or handled inappropriately.
Claims are managed utilising a range of IT system driven controls coupled with manual processes outlined in detailed policies and procedures to ensure claims are handled in an appropriate, timely and accurate manner.
Each member of staff has a specified handling authority, with controls preventing them handling or paying claims outside their authority, as well as controls to mitigate the risk of paying invalid claims.
In addition, there are various outsourced claims handling arrangements, all of which are monitored closely by management, with similar principles applying in terms of the controls and procedures.
Loss adjustors are used in certain circumstances to handle claims to conclusion.
This involves liaison with the policyholder, third parties, suppliers and the claims function.
Specialist bodily injury claims teams in the UK are responsible for handling these types of losses with the nature of handling dependent on the level and type of claim.
Where applicable they are referred to the technical and large loss teams who also deal with all other claim types above defined limits or within specific criteria.
A process is in place in the UK business to deal with severe weather and other catastrophic events, known as the Surge Demand Plan.
A surge is the collective name given to an incident which significantly impacts the volume of claims reported to the Groups claims functions.
The plan covers surge demand triggers, stages of incident, operational impact, communication and management information monitoring of the impact.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
3 Reinsurance risk The Group uses reinsurance to: protect the insurance results against low-frequency, high-severity losses through the transfer of catastrophe claims volatility to reinsurers: protect the insurance results against unforeseen volumes of, or adverse trends in, large individual claims, in order to reduce volatility and to improve stability of earnings: reduce the Groups capital requirements: and or transfer risk that is not within the Groups current risk retention strategy.
Using reinsurance the Group cedes away insurance risk to reinsurers but in return assumes back credit risk against which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed.
The financial security of the Groups panel of reinsurers is therefore extremely important and both the quality and quantum of the assumed credit risk are subject to a credit risk approval process.
The Groups leading counterparty exposures are analysed on a monthly basis where utilisation is monitored against agreed individual reinsurer limits.
These limits represent the accumulated credit risk for all Group underwriting entities.
The Group aims to contract with a diverse range of reinsurers on its contracts to mitigate the credit and or non-payment risks associated with its reinsurance exposures.
Certain reinsurance contracts have long durations as a result of PPOs, and insurance reserves therefore include provisions beyond the levels created for shorter term reinsurance bad debt.
Reinsurance risk arises from: a failure of reinsurance to control exposure to losses, to reduce volatility or to protect capital: an inability to place reinsurance cost effectively or on acceptable terms: and or reinsurer defaults.
4 Insurance concentration risk The Group is subject to concentration risk in a variety of forms, including: geographic concentration risk the Group purchases a UK catastrophe reinsurance programme to protect against a modelled 1 in 200 year combined windstorm and coastal inundation loss.
The retained deductible is 125.0 million at 31 December 2012.
There are also relevant covers to protect the Groups international businesses: product concentration risk the Groups business is heavily concentrated in the UK general insurance market.
However, the Group offers a diversified portfolio of products and a variety of brands sold through a range of distribution channels to its customers: sector concentration risk the concentration of the Group to any given industry sector is monitored and analysed in respect of commercial customers: and reinsurance concentration risk reinsurance is purchased from a number of providers to ensure that a diverse range of counterparties is contracted with, within the desired credit rating range.
3.4 Financial risk The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets and financial liabilities.
The Groups financial risk is concentrated within its investment portfolio and reinsurance.
The strategic asset allocation within the investment portfolio is agreed for each legal entity by the Investment Committee.
The Investment Committee determines high level policy and controls, covering such areas as safety, liquidity and performance.
They meet at least three times a year to evaluate risk exposure, the current strategy, associated policies and investment guidelines and to consider investment recommendations submitted to it.
Oversight of the implementation of decisions taken by the Investment Committee is via various risk fora.
The objectives set out in the investment management minimum standard are: to maintain the safety of the portfolios principal both in economic terms and from an accounting and reporting perspective: to maintain sufficient liquidity to provide cash requirements for operations: and to maximise the portfolios total return within the constraints of the other objectives and the limits defined by the investment guidelines.
116 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements 3.4.
1 Market risk Market risk is the risk associated with the adverse impact of the market risk factors movement on the Groups balance sheet due to changes in the fair value or cash flows of its assets or liabilities.
The Group is mainly exposed to the following market risk factors: interest rate risk: credit spread risk: foreign currency risk: and property risk.
The Group has policies and limits approved by the Board for managing the market risk exposure.
These set out the principles that the business should adhere to for managing market risk and establishing the maximum limits the Group is willing to accept considering strategy, risk appetite and capital resources.
The Group has the ability to monitor market risk exposure on a daily basis and has established limits per interest rate and credit spread exposures.
The limits per asset class have been approved at the investment strategy level.
The Group uses its internal capital model to determine its capital requirements and market risk limits, and monitors its market risk exposure based on a 98% one-year value at risk measure.
The Group also applies market risk stressed scenarios testing for analysing the economic impact of specific severe market conditions.
The results of this analysis are used to enhance the understanding of market risk spots not captured by the value-at-risk metric and for implementing mitigating actions as appropriate.
The Group uses derivatives for hedging its exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risks.
The market risk policy explicitly prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative or gearing purposes.
Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises mainly from its debt, floating interest rate investments and assets and liabilities exposed to fixed interest rates.
In 2012, the Group issued 500 million of subordinated debt with a thirty-year maturity and fixed rate coupon for the first 10 years.
The cost of the fixed rate coupon has been hedged down to the three-month LIBOR floating rate, using the treasury investment benchmark as a reference.
The Group also invests in floating rate notes.
A downward movement of the short-term interest rate will affect the expected return on the investments.
The market value of the Groups investments in fixed coupon securities is affected by the movement of the interest rates.
For the investments in US Dollar corporate bonds of 984.8 million, the Group hedges the exposure of this portfolio to the US Dollar interest rate risk using swaps.
The derivatives reduce the duration of the portfolio to close to zero, eliminating its sensitivity to the US Dollar interest rate fluctuation.
Credit spread risk The credit spread risk represents the risk of the adverse fluctuation of the values of assets and liabilities due to changes in the level of credit spreads.
This represents the main market risk exposure of the Groups investments in investment grade bonds.
Foreign currency risk The exposure to currency risk is generated by the Groups investments in US Dollar corporate bonds and its investment in subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2012, the Group maintained two investment portfolios in US Dollar corporate bonds.
The foreign currency exposure of these investments is hedged by foreign currency forward contracts.
The currency risk exposure is monitored on a daily basis and minimal exposure has been identified since its inception in May 2012.
The Group is also exposed to currency risk through its subsidiaries in Italy and Germany.
The Groups currency risk arises from its investments in the subsidiaries capital: this risk is hedged by foreign currency forward contracts from the date of acquisition.
Property risk Property risk results from adverse price fluctuations on real estate investments.
In 2012, the Board authorised the allocation of 5% of the UK subsidiary investment portfolio into real estate assets.
At 31 December 2012, the value of these investments in property was 128.9 million 2011: 69.5 million.
The property investments are located in the UK and are subject to the asset admissibility rules as defined by the FSA.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 11 7 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The table below provides the sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
Increase decrease Increase decrease in total equity at in income statement 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Credit spread Impact of an increase in AFS debt securities of 100bps movement in 1 credit spreads 155.3 137.3 Interest rate 1,2 Impact on AFS debt securities of an increase in interest rate of 100bps 12.9 9.2 168.6 233.2 Other investment funds and investment property Impact of a decrease in property markets of 15% 19.3 10.4 19.3 10.4 3 Impact of a decrease in investment funds markets of 15% 57.4 Notes: 1.
The income statement impacts on AFS debt securities is limited to floating rate bonds and interest rate derivatives used to hedge a portion of the portfolio.
The income statement is not impacted in relation to fixed rate bonds, where the coupon return is not changed through an alteration in prevailing market rates, as the accounting treatment for AFS debt securities means that only the coupon received is processed through this statement with fair value movements being recognised through total equity.
The sensitivities set out above reflect one-off impacts at 31 December with the exception of the income statement interest rate sensitivity on AFS debt securities, which projects a movement in a full years interest charge as a result of the increase in the interest rate applied to the AFS debt securities and interest rate hedges on those positions held at 31 December.
The impact in 2011 results is a reduction in total equity only as a result of the accounting policy.
The subordinated debt is excluded from the sensitivity analysis.
The sensitivities set out above have not considered the impact of the general market changes on the value of the Groups insurance contract liabilities or retirement benefit obligations.
The tables below analyse the maturity of the Groups derivative assets and liabilities at 31 December 2012.
In the prior period, the Group conducted a small amount of derivative activity, primarily in relation to hedging its investment in its foreign subsidiary in Italy.
All these contracts had a maturity of three months or less.
Notional Less than Over Total amounts 1 year 1 5 years 5 years fair value At 31 December 2012 m m m m m Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1,339.7 11.9 11.9 Interest rate swaps 505.5 1.7 23.7 25.4 Interest rate futures 121.5 0.1 0.1 0.2 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1.2 Total 1,967.9 13.6 0.1 23.8 37.5 118 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements Notional Less than Over Total amounts 1 year 1 5 years 5 years fair value At 31 December 2012 m m m m m Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 666.5 0.2 0.2 Interest rate swaps 468.7 3.1 0.7 3.8 Interest rate futures 375.7 0.1 0.1 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 228.2 2.4 2.4 Total 1,739.1 2.6 3.2 0.7 6.5 At 31 December 2012, 4.6 million in cash has been pledged by the Group and 0.8 million in cash and 1.1 million in a US Treasury bond pledged to the Group as collateral with regards to facilitating derivative trading both interest rate and foreign exchange.
The terms and conditions of collateral pledged for both assets and liabilities are market standard.
The US Treasury bond is readily convertible to cash and as such there has been no policy established for the disposal of assets not readily convertible into cash.
2 Credit risk Credit risk arises from the potential that losses are incurred from the failure of counterparties to meet their credit obligations, due either to their failure and or their inability to pay, or their unwillingness to pay amounts due.
The objective of the credit risk policy and supporting minimum standards is to document the control processes by which the Group is able to identify, monitor, measure, manage, control and mitigate the level of credit risk to which it is exposed effectively.
The credit risk control environment is primarily managed through the Credit Risk and Investment Forum.
The main responsibility of this forum is to ensure that all material aspects of credit risk within the Group are identified, monitored and measured.
The main sources of credit risk for the Group are: investment counterparty this arises from the investment of monies in the range of investment vehicles permitted by the investment policy: and reinsurance recoveries credit exposure to reinsurance counterparties arises in respect of reinsurance claims against which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed.
The Courts Act 2003, implemented in April 2005, gave the courts the power to award PPOs in place of lump sum awards to cover the future costs element of claims that is, loss of future earnings and or cost of future care.
PPOs have the potential to increase the ultimate value of a claim and, by their very nature, to significantly increase the length of time to reach final payment.
This has increased reinsurance credit risk in terms of both quantum and longevity.
The tables below provide information regarding the carrying value of financial and insurance assets that bear credit risk, and that have been impaired, and the ageing of financial assets that are past due but not impaired.
Neither Past due Financial assets Carrying value past due nor Past due more than that have been in the balance impaired 1 90 days 91 days impaired sheet At 31 December 2012 m m m m m Debt securities 7,147.9 8.6 7,156.5 Deposits with credit institutions 1,951.7 1,951.7 Reinsurance assets 1,102.0 1,102.0 Derivative assets 37.5 37.5 Cash at bank and in hand 201.7 201.7 Insurance and other loans and receivables 1,109.8 50.3 3.9 1,164.0 Total 11,550.6 50.3 3.9 8.6 11,613.4 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued Neither Past due Financial assets Carrying value past due nor Past due more than that have been in the balance impaired 1 90 days 91 days impaired sheet m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Debt securities 7,598.3 0.7 8.9 7,607.9 Deposits with credit institutions 3,050.3 3,050.3 Reinsurance assets 741.6 741.6 Derivative assets 0.1 0.1 Cash at bank and in hand 201.9 201.9 Insurance and other loans and receivables 1,223.1 28.0 1.8 1,252.9 Total 12,815.3 28.0 2.5 8.9 12,854.7 There were no material financial assets that would have been past due or impaired had the terms not been renegotiated.
The tables below analyse, by type of asset, the credit quality of available-for-sale debt securities note 24 that are neither past due nor impaired.
Sovereign, supranational Total of which: Total nonand local Other financial  mortgage government debt Corporate debt Bank debt institutions debt sale debt backed backed securities securities securities securities securities securities securities m m m m m m m At 31 December 2012 AAA rated 2,406.1 133.0 372.3 17.0 2,928.4 24.8 2,903.6 AA and above 196.9 377.4 371.0 945.3 945.3 A and above 15.6 1,810.6 691.8 48.6 2,566.6 16.7 2,549.9 BBB and above 17.1 615.2 57.5 8.2 698.0 698.0 BB and below 18.2 18.2 3.7 14.5 Total 2,635.7 2,936.2 1,510.8 73.8 7,156.5 45.2 7,111.3 Sovereign, supranational Total of which: Total nonand local Other financial  mortgage government debt Corporate debt Bank debt institutions debt sale debt backed backed securities securities securities securities securities securities securities m m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 AAA rated 3,415.0 96.4 637.0 27.3 4,175.7 206.8 3,968.9 AA and above 57.0 279.9 434.0 770.9 67.2 703.7 A and above 9.2 1,377.3 858.1 11.3 2,255.9 9.5 2,246.4 BBB and above 287.7 82.4 4.7 374.8 374.8 BB and below 23.3 23.3 23.3 Unrated 7.3 7.3 7.3 Total 3,481.2 2,041.3 2,042.1 43.3 7,607.9 283.5 7,324.4 Bank debt securities, at 31 December 2012, can be further analysed as: secured 211.1 million 2011: 418.8 million : unsecured 1,153.4 million 2011: 1,357.1 million : subordinated 146.3 million 2011: 193.9 million and certificates of deposit nil 2011: 72.3 million.
120 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements The tables below analyse, by type of asset, the credit quality of financial and insurance assets that are neither past due nor impaired excluding debt securities.
The table includes reinsurance exposure, after provision.
3 details the Groups approach to reinsurance credit risk management.
These were not included in deposits with credit institutions above, as the disclosure of the funds held by credit quality is considered to be impractical.
Other loans and receivables due from policyholders, agents, brokers and intermediaries generally do not have a credit rating.
3 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the potential that obligations cannot be met as they fall due as a consequence of having a timing mismatch and or an inability to raise sufficient liquid assets or cash without suffering a substantial loss on realisation.
The measurement and management of liquidity risk within the Group is undertaken within the limits and other policy parameters of the Groups liquidity risk appetite.
Compliance is monitored in respect of both the internal policy and the regulatory requirements of local regulators.
In the event that one or more liquidity stresses or scenarios crystallises, or should any other event that may impact liquidity occur, the Group ensures a rapid and controlled response to the event.
In such an event, a liquidity crisis management team will be formed to assess the nature and extent of the threat and to develop an appropriate response.
The table below provides information regarding the maturity of available-for-sale debt securities.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The tables below show the gross liability analysed by remaining duration for each category of insurance and financial liabilities.
The total liability is split by remaining duration in proportion to the cash flows expected to arise during that period.
4 Investment concentration risk Investment concentration risk arises through excessive exposure to particular industry sectors, groups of business undertakings or similar activities.
The Group may suffer significant losses in its investment portfolio as a result of over-exposure to particular sectors engaged in similar activities or similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions.
These were not analysed in the above for prior periods, as the disclosure of the funds held by industry sector is considered to be impractical.
3.5 Operational risk Effective operational risk management requires the Group to identify, assess, manage, monitor, report and mitigate all areas of exposure.
Operational risk is inherent in all of the Groups processes, systems and products, and from external events, with the Groups ERM framework detailing the minimum standards, tools, techniques and other processes used to ensure that operational risks are identified, managed and mitigated to an acceptable level and that contingency plans are in place.
There are a number of key factors that cause operational risk: the Groups operations support complex transactions and are highly dependent on the proper functioning of its IT and communication systems: a dependency on the use of third-party information technology, software, data and service providers: a need to adequately maintain and protect customer and employee information: and the ability of the Group to attract and retain key qualified personnel.
Effective operational risk management helps the Group to achieve its objectives, including: focus on doing things the right way, leading to fewer surprises: reducing operational errors and losses, leading to increased customer satisfaction and higher-quality earnings: informed analytical risk taking: increased management attention to the risks and issues that really matter: and lower risk-based capital due to lower expected losses.
3.6 Regulatory risk The risk is managed by a dedicated team responsible for providing expert advice and guidance to all parts of the business on regulatory, political and legislative change, including Solvency II.
Through proactive and early engagement the team raises awareness of regulatory changes, enabling management to plan for potential threats and opportunities.
The team also supports the business in identifying, analysing and coordinating responses to relevant UK and European regulatory developments through to facilitating the initiation of implementation programmes.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued 3.7 Capital adequacy The Group defines its capital requirement in accordance with regulations prescribed by the FSA, other regulatory bodies and the credit rating agencies.
Capital is managed in accordance with the Groups capital management minimum standard, the objective of which is to manage capital efficiently and maintain an appropriate level of capitalisation and solvency.
The Group determines the appropriate level of capital on the basis of a number of criteria including its risk-based requirement, the maintenance of a prudent excess versus regulatory capital requirements, and its capital risk appetite statement of ensuring consistency with a credit rating in the A range.
The Group seeks to hold capital coverage in the range of 125% to 150% of the risk-based capital requirement.
The Group also manages its subsidiaries on an ongoing basis to ensure that capital resources exceed regulatory minima in accordance with its risk appetite.
The Group uses a risk-based capital model to determine how much capital it needs to maintain in order to operate in accordance with its risk strategy for the UK general insurance underwriters established within its ERM framework.
The risk-based capital model also supports decision making in the business.
In addition, the Group monitors financial resources with reference to the requirements of the IGD.
The UK regulated insurance entities of the Group carry out an assessment of the adequacy of their overall financial resources in accordance with the FSAs ICA methodology.
For the UK, this is based on an internal capital model which is calibrated, as required by the FSA, to a 99.5% confidence interval over a one-year time horizon.
As stated above, the Groups capital risk appetite is to hold capital consistent with the Group maintaining a credit rating in the A range and as such its capital resources are in excess of the ICA requirement.
The capital for European entities is maintained in accordance with the local regulatory solvency requirements.
The Group has an IGD surplus at 31 December 2012 of approximately 1.8 billion 2011: 2.4 billion.
Management information to monitor the Groups capital requirements and solvency position is produced and presented to the asset and liability committee on a regular basis.
Segmental analysis The Group is a general insurer with leading direct market positions in the UK, Italy and Germany.
The Group utilises a multibrand, multi-product, multi-channel business model that covers most major customer segments in the UK for personal lines general insurance and a more limited presence in the commercial market.
The Directors manage the Group primarily by product type and present the segmental analysis on that basis.
The segments reflect the management structure whereby a member of the Executive Committee is accountable to the Chief Executive Officer for each of the following operating segments: Motor This segment consists of personal car insurance cover together with the associated legal expenses business.
The Group sells motor insurance through its own brands Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege and through partnership brands directly to customers or through PCWs.
As a result, the Group has a brand and product offering that covers most major retail customer segments for motor insurance in the UK.
Home This segment consists of the underwriting of home insurance cover.
The Group sells home insurance through its own brands Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege and through partnerships or PCWs.
The Groups brand and product offering covers most of the major retail customer segments for home insurance in the UK.
126 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements Rescue and other personal lines This segment consists of the underwriting of rescue and recovery insurance products and other personal lines business including travel, pet, life closed for new business and creditor.
The Group sells rescue and recovery insurance as a stand-alone product through the Green Flag brand or as an insurance add-on to all Group own brand and certain partner motor policies, or as part of packaged bank accounts.
Rescue insurance policies range from basic roadside rescue to a full Europe-wide breakdown recovery service.
The Group sells its other personal lines insurance through its own brands Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege and through partnerships.
Commercial This segment consists of the underwriting of commercial insurance for micro businesses and SMEs in the UK.
The Group sells commercial products through its own brands NIG and DL4B and through its partnership with RBS and NatWest.
International This segment consists primarily of motor insurance, sold to private customers in Germany and Italy using a multi-channel strategy through the Direct Line brand and through partnerships and PCWs.
Certain charges are not allocated to the specific operating segments above as they are considered by management to be outside underlying business activities by virtue of their one-off incidence, size or nature.
Such charges are categorised as either run-off or restructuring and other one-off items, as described below: Run-off The businesses included in the run-off segment consist of two principal lines, being policies written through partnership arrangements with TPF and NIG personal lines business sold via brokers.
The partnership arrangements have been exited and the residual businesses are now in run-off.
TPF was entered into as a 50:50 joint venture with Tesco in 1999, whereby the Group underwrote a range of general and life insurance products under the Tesco brand to Tesco customers.
Restructuring and other one-off costs Costs included within restructuring and other one-off costs include items that are exceptional in nature, including additional expenses as a result of separation and divestment from RBS Group and impairment of goodwill.
No inter-segment transactions occurred in the periods ending 2012 and 2011.
If any transaction were to occur, transfer prices between operating segments are set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Segment income, expenses and results will include those transfers between business segments which will then be eliminated on consolidation.
For each operating segment, there is no individual policyholder or customer that represents 10% or more of the Groups total revenue.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Segmental analysis continued The table below is an analysis of the Groups segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2011: Rescue and other Total Motor Home personal lines Commercial International Run-off Group m m m m m m m Goodwill 126.4 45.8 28.7 10.1 211.0 Other segment assets 7,241.2 1,565.9 316.7 1,486.4 1,070.8 1,878.1 13,559.1 Segment liabilities 5,204.5 1,138.5 244.0 1,057.1 871.3 1,383.4 9,898.8 Reportable segment net assets 2,163.1 473.2 101.4 439.4 199.5 494.7 3,871.3 All operations are in the UK except for International which operates in Germany and Italy.
The reportable segment net assets do not represent the Groups view of the capital requirements for its operating segments.
Net earned premium 2012 2011 m m Premium income from insurance contracts issued: Premium receivable 4,001.4 4,168.3 Change in unearned premium reserve 47.1 354.6 4,048.5 4,522.9 Premium revenue ceded to reinsurers on insurance contracts issued: Premium payables 365.4 257.1 Change in reinsurance unearned premium reserve 38.9 12.8 326.5 269.9 Total 3,722.0 4,253.0 6.
Investment return 2012 2011 m m Investment income: Interest income on debt securities 172.5 208.1 Other investment funds income 3.1 8.5 Cash and cash equivalent interest income 19.3 20.4 Rental income from investment property 4.4 6.6 Total 199.3 243.6 Net realised gains: Debt securities 66.3 54.3 Other investment funds 23.2 1 Derivatives 17.8 Impairments of available-for-sale debt securities 2.0 Net unrealised losses: 2 Derivatives 20.0 Investment property note 18 4.8 14.0 Total 281.8 281.9 Notes: 1.
Derivative net realised gains includes a 3.8 million loss on interest rate derivatives, with a 0.2 million gain on associated hedged risk and a 24.3 million gain on foreign exchange derivatives with a 2.9 million loss on the associated hedged risk.
Derivative net unrealised losses includes a 2.1 million loss on interest rate derivatives with a 3.0 million gain on the associated hedged risk and a 11.7 million gain on foreign exchange derivatives with a 32.6 million loss on the associated hedged risk.
130 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements 7.
Instalment and other operating income 2012 2011 m m Instalment income 125.4 145.0 Solicitors referral fee income 21.2 27.9 Vehicle replacement referral income 17.5 21.9 Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services 25.9 39.3 Fee income from insurance intermediary services 1.9 3.4 Other income 6.8 2.6 Other operating income 73.3 95.1 Total 198.7 240.1 8.
Insurance claims 2012 Gross Reinsurance Net m m m Current accident year claims paid 1,360.0 71.3 1,288.7 Prior accident years claims paid 1,612.1 55.6 1,556.5 Movement in claims provision 96.8 324.1 420.9 Total 2,875.3 451.0 2,424.3 2011 Gross Reinsurance Net m m m Current accident year claims paid 1,646.5 113.2 1,533.3 Prior accident years claims paid 1,976.4 37.4 1,939.0 Movement in claims provision 462.3 42.5 504.8 Total 3,160.6 193.1 2,967.5 Loss adjustment expenses for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 290.3 million 2011: 296.4 million have been included in the claims figures above.
An increase in the liability adequacy provision for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 0.7 million 2011: 21.8 million reduction has been included in the movement in claims provision.
Commission expenses 2012 2011 m m Commission expenses 316.5 324.5 Expenses incurred under profit participations 136.4 194.4 Total 452.9 518.9 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Operating expenses 2012 2011 m m Staff costs 416.7 321.6 Marketing 203.1 203.5 Management fees 145.5 282.0 Depreciation 13.1 10.4 Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets 40.7 29.8 Impairment of goodwill 10.2 Other operating expenses 228.4 87.1 Total 1,047.5 944.6 Staff costs attributable to claims handling activities are allocated to claims and loss adjustment expenses.
Management fees are in respect of expenses recharged from RBS Group up until 30 June 2012: management fees are charged on an arms length basis.
These costs since 30 June 2012 have been incurred directly and included in staff costs and other operating expenses.
Included in operating expenses are run-off, restructuring and other one-off costs as follows: 2012 2011 m m Staff costs 103.9 33.0 Management fees 16.3 42.0 Impairment of goodwill 10.2 Other operating expenses 72.5 21.8 Total 192.7 107.0 Average number of persons employed 2012 2011 Operations 13,662 14,765 Support 1,880 1,552 Total 15,542 16,317 Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 2012 2011 m m Wages and salaries 444.5 425.3 Social security costs 50.0 47.6 Pension costs 62.3 41.6 Share-based payments 0.3 Total 557.1 514.5 132 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements Auditors remuneration 2012 2011 m m Fees payable for the audit of: The Companys annual accounts Deloitte LLP 0.2 0.1 The Companys subsidiaries Deloitte LLP 1.3 1.4 The Companys subsidiaries Mazars 0.1 0.1 Total audit fees 1.6 1.6 Fees payable to Deloitte LLP for non-audit services: Audit-related assurance services 0.3 0.3 Taxation advisory services 0.1 Corporate finance services 4.1 0.7 Other services 1.0 Total non-audit services 4.5 2.0 Total 6.1 3.6 Fees in relation to corporate finance services relate to the divestment of Direct Line Group from RBS Group.
Fees in relation to other services in 2011 relate to the provision of advice and design support on the new claims operating model.
Aggregate Directors emoluments The remuneration and pension benefits of the Directors, including those of the highest paid Director, are included in the Directors remuneration report in the corporate governance section of the Annual Report & Accounts.
At 31 December 2012, one Director 2011: three had retirement benefits accruing under money purchase pension schemes in respect of qualifying service.
During the year ended 31 December 2012 one Director exercised share options 2011: none.
Finance costs 2012 2011 m m 1 Interest expense on subordinated dated notes 26.7 Other interest expense 2.0 2.7 Total 28.7 2.7 Note: 1.
As described in note 29, the Group entered into a 10-year hedge to exchange the fixed rate of interest on the subordinated loan notes for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 basis points.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Tax charge 2012 2011 m m Current taxation: Charge for the year 61.7 157.2 Over under-provision in respect of prior year 1.0 10.8 60.7 168.0 Deferred taxation note 13 : Charge credit for the year 13.9 56.1 Over-provision in respect of prior year 9.8 18.0 4.1 74.1 Current taxation 60.7 168.0 Deferred taxation note 13 4.1 74.1 Tax charge for the year 64.8 93.9 The actual income tax charge differs from the expected income tax charge computed by applying the standard rate of UK 1 corporation tax of 24.5% 2011: 26.5% as follows: 2012 2011 m m Profit before tax 249.1 342.9 Expected tax charge 61.0 90.9 Effects of: Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 3.0 Net movement in impairment of goodwill 2.9 Realised gains on disposal of subsidiary 0.4 Disallowable expenses 9.6 7.1 Non-taxable items 0.7 Effect of change in UK taxation rate 2.7 0.2 Over-provision in respect of prior year 10.8 7.2 Tax charge for the year 64.8 93.9 Effective income tax rate 26.0% 27.4% Note: 1.
The UK Government enacted a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 26% to 24% effective from 1 April 2012 in the Finance Act 2012, which also enacted a further reduction to 23% to be effective from 1 April 2013.
As a consequence the closing deferred tax assets and liabilities have been recognised at an effective rate of 23%.
The impact of these changes on the tax charge for the year is set out in the table above.
2012 2011 m m Per balance sheet: Current tax assets 5.5 Current tax liabilities 34.5 218.0 134 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements 13.
Deferred tax The following are the deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group, and the movements thereon, during the current and prior reporting years.
Depreciation Other Retirement in excess of Nontemporary benefit capital distributable differences obligation allowances reserve Total m m m m m At 1 January 2011 5.8 1.4 54.9 59.3 Credit charge to income statement 28.3 0.6 0.5 46.9 74.1 At 31 December 2011 22.5 0.6 0.9 8.0 14.8 Credit charge to income statement 4.4 0.6 0.5 7.4 4.1 Charge credit to other comprehensive income 6.1 0.6 5.5 Other movements 3.6 3.6 At 31 December 2012 17.2 0.6 0.4 15.4 1.6 A deferred tax asset of 1.2 million has not been recognised in respect of capital losses arising on the revaluation of investment property as there are currently no eligible gains against which these unrealised losses can be utilised.
2012 2011 m m Per balance sheet: Deferred tax assets 22.5 26.9 Deferred tax liabilities 20.9 12.1 1.6 14.8 14.
Dividends 2012 2011 2012 2011 pence pence m m Ordinary dividend: Interim dividend paid in respect of current year on 27 March 2012 20.0 300.0 Interim dividend paid in respect of current year on 6 June 2012 33.3 500.0 Interim dividend paid in respect of current year on 3 September 2012 13.3 200.0 Total 1,000.0 The Directors have recommended that, subject to approval at the AGM on 6 June 2013, a final dividend of 8 pence per Ordinary Share totalling 120.0 million is to be paid on 9 June 2013 to members on the register at the close of business on 6 March 2013.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Earnings and net assets per share, return on equity Earnings per share is calculated by dividing earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.
Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company and the weighted average of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period, excluding Ordinary Shares held as employee trust shares.
2012 2011 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company 184.3 249.0 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue millions 1,499.4 1,500.0 Basic earnings per share pence 12.3 16.6 Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company and the weighted average of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period adjusted for the dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Company has share options and contingently issuable shares as categories of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
2012 2011 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company 184.3 249.0 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue millions 1,499.4 1,500.0 Adjustments for share options and contingently issuable shares millions 0.6 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share millions 1,500.0 1,500.0 Diluted earnings per share pence 12.3 16.6 Net asset value and tangible net asset value per share Net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interest divided by the number of Ordinary Shares in issue at the end of the period.
Ordinary Shares in issue exclude shares held by employee share trusts at 31 December 2012 of 2,848,991 2011: nil.
Tangible net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interest less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the number of Ordinary Shares in issue at the end of the period.
Net asset and tangible net asset value per share are as follows: 2012 2011 At 31 December m m Net assets 2,831.6 3,612.8 Goodwill and other intangible assets 421.5 365.8 Tangible net assets 2,410.1 3,247.0 Number of Ordinary Shares in issue millions 1,500.0 1,500.0 Shares held by employee share trusts millions 2.8 Closing number of Ordinary Shares in issue millions 1,497.2 1,500.0 Net asset value per share pence 189.1 240.9 Tangible net asset value per share pence 161.0 216.5 136 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements Return on equity Return on equity is calculated as follows: 2012 2011 m m Profit for the year 184.3 249.0 Opening shareholders equity 3,612.8 3,223.6 Closing shareholders equity 2,831.6 3,612.8 Average shareholders equity 3,222.2 3,418.2 Return on equity 5.7% 7.3% 16.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Other intangible Goodwill assets Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2011 346.2 426.8 773.0 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 1.0 0.8 1.8 Additions 119.8 119.8 Impairment and write-off of intangible assets 8.8 8.8 At 31 December 2011 345.2 537.0 882.2 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 0.6 0.9 1.5 Additions 96.6 96.6 Fully utilised 282.1 282.1 Impairment and write-off of intangible assets 21.2 21.2 At 31 December 2012 344.6 329.4 674.0 Other intangible Goodwill assets Total m m m Amortisation accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2011 125.0 361.9 486.9 Charge for the year 21.1 21.1 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 1.0 0.7 1.7 Impairment and write-off of intangible assets 10.2 0.1 10.1 At 31 December 2011 134.2 382.2 516.4 Charge for the year 30.0 30.0 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 0.6 0.7 1.3 Fully utilised 282.1 282.1 Impairment and write-off of intangible assets 10.5 10.5 At 31 December 2012 133.6 118.9 252.5 Net book amount At 31 December 2012 211.0 210.5 421.5 At 31 December 2011 211.0 154.8 365.8 Goodwill arose on the acquisition of U K Insurance Limited 141 million and Churchill Insurance Company Limited 70 million, which is allocated across Motor, Home, Rescue and other personal lines and Commercial.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued The Groups goodwill is reviewed annually at 30 September for impairment by comparing the recoverable amount of each cashgenerating unit CGU to which goodwill has been allocated with its carrying value and updated at each reporting date in the event of indicators of impairment.
The goodwill of the CGUs of the Group is as follows: Rescue and other personal Tracker Network Motor Home lines Commercial UK Limited Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2011 126.4 45.8 28.7 10.1 10.2 221.2 Impairment of goodwill 10.2 10.2 At 31 December 2011 and 2012 126.4 45.8 28.7 10.1 211.0 The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGUs fair value less the costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of expected future cash flows from the CGU.
Fair value is the amount obtainable for the sale of the CGU in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties.
Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgemental areas: the preparation of cash flow forecasts for periods that are beyond the normal requirements of management reporting: the assessment of the discount rate appropriate to the business: and estimation of the fair value of CGUs and the valuation of the separable assets of each business whose goodwill is being reviewed.
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs at 30 September were based on the value in use test, using the Groups latest five-year forecasts.
The long-term growth rates have been based on GDP rates adjusted for inflation.
The risk discount rates are based on observable market long-term government bond yields and average industry betas adjusted for an appropriate risk premium based on independent analysis.
The recoverable amounts in excess of carrying value for the CGUs where goodwill is held are analysed as follows: Sensitivity: Impact on CGU 1 Assumptions recoverable amount of a: 1% change Recoverable 1% change in 1% change in in forecast amount in excess pre-tax discount terminal growth 2 Terminal growth Pre-tax of carrying value rate rate pre-tax profit rate discount rate m m m m Motor 3.0% 11.9% 1,284.1 323.7 292.3 31.0 Home 3.0% 11.9% 836.7 117.7 106.9 11.1 Rescue and other personal lines 3.0% 11.9% 645.8 81.3 74.6 7.3 Commercial 3.0% 11.9% 43.5 40.4 37.3 3.5 Notes: 1.
Key assumptions used in impairment testing in 2011 were terminal growth rate of 3% and pre-tax discount rate of 12.1%.
Reflects a 1% change to each year of the five-year forecast and terminal profit forecast.
Tracker Network UK Limited provides stolen vehicle recovery systems and vehicle asset management systems.
Goodwill was fully impaired by 31 December 2011 impairment charge 2011: 10.2 million as performance was not in line with that anticipated at the date of purchase.
The recoverable amount was calculated in 2011 using a value in use methodology, with the key assumptions underlying the calculation being a terminal growth rate of 3% and a pre-tax discount rate of 12.1%.
138 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements 17.
Property, plant and equipment m Cost At 1 January 2011 91.6 Additions 7.5 Disposals 7.9 Reclassified as held-for-sale 1.5 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 0.6 At 31 December 2011 89.1 Additions 63.7 Disposals 9.2 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 1.2 At 31 December 2012 142.4 m Depreciation At 1 January 2011 39.0 Depreciation charge for the year 10.4 Disposals 6.4 Reclassified as held-for-sale 0.5 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 0.3 At 31 December 2011 42.2 Depreciation charge for the year 13.1 Disposals 4.4 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 0.9 At 31 December 2012 50.0 Net book amount At 31 December 2012 92.4 At 31 December 2011 46.9 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Investment property 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 69.5 83.5 Additions 133.7 Disposals 69.5 Decrease in fair value 4.8 14.0 At 31 December 128.9 69.5 Investment properties were purchased during the year to provide an investment return over the long term in accordance with the Groups investment strategy.
These properties are managed, on behalf of the Group, by a property services company.
The lease agreements are drawn up in line with local practice and the Group has no exposure to leases that include contingent rents.
Disposals in the year comprised freehold property occupied by RBS Group under operating leases.
Subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group are shown below.
Their capital consists of ordinary shares which are unlisted.
Direct Line Versicherung AG, DL Insurance Services Limited DLISL the company changed its name from RBS Insurance Services Limited on 10 September 2012 and U K Insurance Limited are owned directly by Direct Line Insurance Group plc.
Direct Line Insurance S. p. A is owned indirectly through intermediary holding companies.
All subsidiaries are included in the Groups consolidated financial information and have an accounting reference date of 31 December.
Type of Place of incorporation ownership interest Proportion of Name of subsidiary and operation share type voting power held Principal activity Direct Line Insurance S. p. A Italy Ordinary 100% General insurance Direct Line Versicherung AG Germany Ordinary 100% General insurance DL Insurance Services Limited Great Britain Ordinary 100% Management services U K Insurance Limited Great Britain Ordinary 100% General insurance The above information is provided in relation to principal related undertakings as permitted by Section 410 2 of the Companies Act 2006.
Full information on all related undertakings is included in the Annual Return available from Companies House by visiting www.
The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Direct Line Versicherung AG on 2 April 2012.
The fair value of identifiable assets acquired was 368.7 million including cash and cash equivalents of 39.7 million and the fair value of identifiable liabilities assumed was 263.5 million.
The total cash consideration paid was 105.2 million.
The Group did not dispose of any of its subsidiaries in the year ended 31 December 2012.
In 2011 Devitt Insurance Services Limited was sold to CKH Limited for a consideration of 2.3 million.
Cash and cash equivalents included in the disposal were 2.4 million along with other assets of 7.3 million and other liabilities of 9.0 million.
140 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements 20.
Reinsurance assets 2012 2011 m m Reinsurers share of general insurance 1,068.0 712.8 Impairment provision 60.7 53.9 1,007.3 658.9 Reinsurers share of life insurance 94.7 82.7 Total 1,102.0 741.6 2012 2011 m m Analysis of movement in impairment provision: At 1 January 53.9 9.2 Impairment loss recognised on reinsurance contracts 7.6 44.8 Impairment losses reversed 0.8 0.1 At 31 December 60.7 53.9 21.
Deferred acquisition costs 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 310.5 299.5 Net credit to the income statement 17.1 11.0 At 31 December 327.6 310.5 22.
Insurance and other receivables 2012 2011 m m Receivables arising from insurance and reinsurance contracts: Due from policyholders 965.3 988.9 Impairment of policyholder receivables 9.7 8.8 Due from agents, brokers and intermediaries 106.6 176.9 Impairment of agent, broker and intermediary receivables 0.3 0.4 Due from reinsurers 34.8 46.0 Other loans and receivables: Accrued interest 2.0 3.3 Receivables from related parties 5.1 7.7 Other debtors 60.2 39.3 Total 1,164.0 1,252.9 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Derivative financial instruments 2012 2011 m m Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement 37.5 Designated as hedging instruments 0.1 Total 37.5 0.1 Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement 4.1 Designated as hedging instruments 2.4 Total 6.5 Derivative financial instruments as shown above are all classified as level 2 under the fair value hierarchy as described in note 24.
These are measured at fair value, which equates to carrying value.
Included in the above are related party transactions with RBS Group at 31 December 2012 23.0 million 2011: 0.1 million.
Financial investments 2012 2011 m m Available-for-sale debt securities Sovereign, supranational and local government debt securities 2,635.7 3,481.2 Corporate debt securities 4,475.6 3,843.2 Mortgage backed securities 45.2 283.5 Total 7,156.5 7,607.9 2012 2011 m m Available-for-sale debt securities Listed fixed interest rate 6,854.2 6,747.8 Listed floating interest rate 302.3 860.1 7,156.5 7,607.9 1 Other investment funds 382.8 Total 7,156.5 7,990.7 Loans and receivables Deposits with credit institutions with maturities in excess of three months: Third parties 595.0 1,342.6 Related parties 50.0 147.0 Total 645.0 1,489.6 Total 7,801.5 9,480.3 Note: 1.
Other investment funds comprised a single fund which included Euro and US Dollar-denominated bonds, hedged back to Pounds Sterling.
Included within the debt securities balance at 31 December 2012 is 75.0 million 2011: 304.6 million relating to securities issued by members of RBS Group.
142 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements The following table shows an analysis of financial instruments recorded at fair value, which equates to their carrying value, by level of the fair value hierarchy: 2012 2011 AvailableOther AvailableOther for-sale debt investment for-sale debt investment securities funds Total securities funds Total At 31 December m m m m m m 1 Level 1 1,839.9 1,839.92,862.6 2,862.6 2 Level 2 5,316.6 5,316.6 4,745.3 382.8 5,128.1 Total 7,156.5 7,156.5 7,607.9 382.8 7,990.7 Notes: 1.
Level 1 financial assets are measured in whole or in part by reference to published quotes in an active market.
In an active market quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
Included in the Level 2 category are financial assets measured using a valuation technique based on assumptions that are supported by prices from observable current market transactions.
These are assets for which pricing is obtained via pricing services, but where prices have not been determined in an active market, or financial assets with fair values based on broker quotes, investments in private equity funds with fair values obtained via fund managers or assets that are valued using the Groups own models whereby the majority of assumptions are market-observable.
The Group held no Level 3 securities at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011.
Cash and cash equivalents 2012 2011 m m Cash at bank and in hand: Third parties 132.6 153.5 Related parties 69.1 48.4 201.7 201.9 Short-term deposits with credit institutions: 1 Third parties 1,277.9 1,029.5 Related parties 28.8 148.4 1,306.7 1,177.9 Total 1,508.4 1,379.8 Note: 1.
Included in the above are investments of 492.5 million 2011: 612.0 million held by the Group in Global Treasury Funds PLC an open ended umbrella investment company with variable capital incorporated with limited liability in Ireland.
RBS Asset Management Dublin Limited is the appointed manager to the fund.
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits with credit institutions for the year ended 31 December 2012 was 0.35% 2011: 0.78% and has an average maturity of 11 days 2011: 85 days.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and bank overdrafts are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,508.4 1,379.8 Bank overdrafts 90.9 70.2 Total 1,417.5 1,309.6 26.
Assets held for sale 2012 2011 m m Freehold property held for sale 1.0 1.0 The Group intends to dispose of freehold property it no longer utilises at Lumbry Park, Alton.
At 31 December 2012, the property is being actively marketed, with no impairment losses recognised in the year ended 31 December 2012.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Share capital 2012 2011 Number Number million million Issued and fully paid: equity shares Ordinary Shares of 1 each 1,500.0 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each 1,500.0 On 31 August 2012, board and shareholder resolutions were approved to subdivide the share capital of Direct Line Insurance Group plc from 1.5 billion Ordinary Shares of 1 each to 1.5 billion Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each and 1.5 billion deferred shares of 90 pence each.
The deferred shares were then transferred back to the Company by its parent, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, for no value and immediately cancelled by the Company.
This cancellation has created a non-distributable capital redemption reserve in the Company of 1,350.0 million.
The Companys issued share capital now comprises 1.5 billion Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, this has not altered the earnings per share calculation.
The Group satisfies share-based payments under the Groups share plans primarily through shares purchased in the market and held by employee share trusts.
This note gives details of the shares held in these trusts.
At 31 December 2012, 2,848,991 Ordinary Shares 2011: nil were owned by the employee share trusts with a cost of 5.0 million, with an undertaking to satisfy the awards of shares in the Company under the Companys share plans and schemes.
These shares were purchased by the employee share trusts and are carried at cost.
At 31 December 2012, they had an aggregate nominal value of 0.3 million 2011: nil and a market value of 6.2 million 2011: nil.
Other reserves Movements in the revaluation reserve for available-for-sale investments were as follows: Other investment Debt funds securities Total m m m At 1 January 2011 4.0 37.9 41.9 Revaluation during the year gross 11.8 172.0 183.8 Revaluation during the year tax 3.1 47.3 50.4 Realised gains gross 52.3 52.3 Tax on realised gains 14.1 14.1 At 31 December 2011 12.7 124.4 137.1 Revaluation during the year gross 6.3 103.6 109.9 Revaluation during the year tax 1.5 19.1 20.6 Realised gains gross 23.2 66.3 89.5 Tax on realised gains 5.7 16.2 21.9 At 31 December 2012 158.8 158.8 144 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements Movements in the non-distributable reserve were as follows: 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 30.3 197.6 Transfer from to retained earnings 32.9 167.3 At 31 December 63.2 30.3 The non-distributable reserve relates to a UK statutory claims equalisation reserve that is calculated in accordance with the rules of the FSA.
The transfer to retained earnings in 2011 was a consequence of the Groups consolidation of its four UK general insurance underwriting entities by way of a UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Part VII transfer, which is a mechanism used to transfer all the insurance business, rights, benefits, obligations and interests into one insurance underwriter.
Subordinated liabilities 2012 2011 m m Subordinated dated notes 529.0 Undated subordinated loans 258.5 Total 787.5 The subordinated dated notes were issued on 27 April 2012 at a fixed rate of 9.25%.
On issuance the Group entered into a 10-year hedge to exchange the fixed rate of interest for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 basis points.
The nominal 500 million bonds have a redemption date of 27 April 2042.
The Group has the option to repay the notes on specific dates from 27 April 2022.
If the notes are not repaid on that date, the rate of interest would be reset at a rate of the six-month LIBOR plus 7.91%.
The notes are unsecured, subordinated obligations of the Group, and rank pari passu without any preference among themselves.
In the event of a winding-up or of bankruptcy, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other creditors have been met.
There have been no defaults on any of the notes during the year.
The Group has the option to defer interest payments on the notes but to date has not exercised this right.
The aggregate fair value of subordinated dated notes is 597.6 million 2011: nil.
The undated subordinated loans of 258.5 million were provided by TPF in 2006 and were reclassified from non-controlling interest in total equity following FSA approval to repay the loans.
There is no interest payable on this instrument.
The loans were fully repaid on 8 January 2013 see note 41.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
This balance excludes liability adequacy provision.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
148 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements Movements in general insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets Gross Reinsurance Net m m m Notified claims 4,327.6 310.0 4,017.6 Incurred but not reported 2,514.2 220.8 2,293.4 Liability adequacy provision 25.4 25.4 At 1 January 2011 6,867.2 530.8 6,336.4 Cash paid for claims settled in the year 3,547.7 81.7 3,466.0 Increase decrease in liabilities: Arising from current-year claims 3,345.3 134.4 3,210.9 Arising from prior-year claims 209.9 17.2 227.1 Net exchange differences 21.9 0.8 21.1 Decrease in liability adequacy provision 21.8 21.8 At 31 December 2011 6,411.2 599.9 5,811.3 Notified claims 4,190.1 318.1 3,872.0 Incurred but not reported 2,217.5 281.8 1,935.7 Liability adequacy provision 3.6 3.6 At 31 December 2011 6,411.2 599.9 5,811.3 Cash paid for claims settled in the year 2,949.1 108.6 2,840.5 Increase decrease in liabilities: Arising from current-year claims 3,038.2 227.2 2,811.0 Arising from prior-year claims 196.5 193.0 389.5 Net exchange differences 13.2 2.1 11.1 Increase in liability adequacy provision 0.7 0.7 At 31 December 2012 6,291.3 909.4 5,381.9 Notified claims 4,133.1 397.8 3,735.3 Incurred but not reported 2,153.9 511.6 1,642.3 Liability adequacy provision 4.3 4.3 At 31 December 2012 6,291.3 909.4 5,381.9 Movement in prior-year net claims liabilities by operating segment 2012 2011 m m Motor 174.3 138.2 Home 37.4 48.5 Rescue and other personal lines 23.9 52.8 Commercial 56.2 38.4 International 30.2 7.9 Total ongoing 322.0 188.8 Run-off 67.5 38.3 Total 389.5 227.1 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Insurance liabilities, unearned premium reserve and reinsurance assets continued Movement in unearned premium reserve Gross Reinsurance Net m m m At 1 January 2011 2,288.6 71.8 2,216.8 Net decrease increase in the year 354.6 12.8 341.8 Exchange movement 2.4 2.4 At 31 December 2011 1,931.6 59.0 1,872.6 Net decrease in the year 47.1 38.9 86.0 Exchange movement 11.6 11.6 At 31 December 2012 1,872.9 97.9 1,775.0 31.
Life insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 2012 2011 m m Gross life insurance Long-term insurance contracts: With fixed and guaranteed terms 102.9 93.0 Benefits outstanding 4.3 4.8 Total 107.2 97.8 Reinsurers share of life insurance Long-term insurance contracts: With fixed and guaranteed terms 91.1 78.6 Benefits outstanding 3.6 4.1 Total 94.7 82.7 Net life insurance Long-term insurance contracts: With fixed and guaranteed terms 11.8 14.4 Benefits outstanding 0.7 0.7 Total 12.5 15.1 Movements in life insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets Gross Reinsurance Net m m m At 1 January 2011 68.4 53.3 15.1 Provisions in respect of new and existing business 45.9 25.4 20.5 Expected change in existing business provisions 21.7 16.2 5.5 Variance between actual and expected experience 8.7 16.1 7.4 Other movements 8.3 8.3 At 31 December 2011 93.0 78.6 14.4 Provisions in respect of new and existing business 42.8 24.7 18.1 Expected change in existing business provisions 20.3 18.3 2.0 Variance between actual and expected experience 4.7 6.1 10.8 Other movements 7.9 7.9 At 31 December 2012 102.9 91.1 11.8 150 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements 32.
Borrowings 2012 2011 m m Loans from related parties 247.7 Bank overdrafts with related parties 90.9 64.2 Bank overdrafts with third parties 6.0 Total 90.9 317.9 The carrying value of borrowings approximates to their fair value.
Retirement benefits obligations Defined contribution scheme DLISL operates the Group pension scheme which was established in 1988.
The contributions paid by DLISL are charged to the income statement, as incurred.
The pension charge in respect of the defined contribution scheme at 31 December 2012 was 26.0 million 2011: 28.0 million.
In addition, certain employees of the Group who were previously members of the RBS Group defined benefit pension scheme transferred to the Groups defined contribution scheme in the year.
As a result of standardising employment terms for all Group employees, which included changes to the employment terms of a small number of Group employees who were members of the RBS Group defined benefit pension scheme, the Group crystallised a debt under section 75 of the UK Pensions Act 1995.
Consequently the Group was required to pay into the RBS Groups defined benefit pension scheme in which those employees ceased to participate as a result of a deficit in that scheme.
The debt was calculated based on the amount needed to secure Direct Line Groups share of the pension liabilities in the pension scheme with an insurance company.
An amount of 31.3 million was paid to the RBS Group pension scheme on 29 June 2012 in full and final settlement.
Defined benefit scheme The Groups defined benefit pension scheme was closed in 2003 although DLISL remains the sponsoring employer for obligations to current and deferred pensioners.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2012 is 20 years 2011: 19 years using accounting assumptions.
The assumptions in respect of the defined benefit scheme and the amounts accounted for under IAS 19 are set out below.
2012 2011 % % Rate of increase in pension payment 2.1 2.1 Rate of increase of deferred pensions 2.1 2.1 Discount rate 4.5 5.0 Inflation rate 2.8 3.0 No assumption has been made for salary growth as there are no liabilities in the scheme that are linked to future increases in salaries.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Retirement benefits obligations continued The expected return on the scheme assets at 31 December is based upon the assumed returns in the table below together with the present value of the obligations and deficit in the scheme.
Expected Expected return Value at return Value at 2012 2012 2011 2011 % m % m Equities 7.7 13.9 7.7 34.5 Index-linked bonds 3.2 10.2 3.1 7.2 Government bonds 3.2 6.5 3.1 7.2 Corporate bonds 4.2 32.5 4.7 7.2 Other 4.5 0.6 5.0 0.6 Total market value of assets 63.7 56.7 Present value of fund obligations 61.2 54.1 Surplus in the scheme 2.5 2.6 Deferred tax asset at 23% 2011: 25% 0.6 0.6 IAS 19 Employee benefits revised is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Under the revised standard, an expected rate of return will no longer be applied to assets.
The interest cost to be calculated on the net pension liability or asset will be at the long-term bond rate.
The deferred tax asset has been netted off against the net pension liability and has been accounted for as a liability note 13.
Amounts credited to the income statement 2012 2011 m m Interest on obligation 2.7 3.0 Expected return on plan assets 3.5 3.7 0.8 0.7 The credit to the income statement has been included under other operating expenses.
Amounts charged to the statement of comprehensive income 2012 2011 m m Actual return on scheme assets 5.7 1.1 Expected return on scheme assets 3.5 3.7 Experience gain loss on scheme assets 2.2 2.6 Experience loss gain on scheme liabilities 0.1 0.4 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 5.5 1.6 Actuarial loss 3.4 0.6 152 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Opening defined benefit obligation 54.1 54.5 Interest cost 2.7 3.0 Actuarial losses gains 5.6 2.1 Benefits paid 1.2 1.3 Closing defined benefit obligation 61.2 54.1 Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Opening fair value of plan assets 56.7 54.4 Expected return 3.5 3.7 Actuarial gains loss 2.2 2.6 Contributions 2.5 2.5 Benefits paid 1.2 1.3 Closing fair value of plan assets 63.7 56.7 Net pension surplus deficit before deferred tax: At 1 January 2.6 0.1 At 31 December 2.5 2.6 The history of the plan for the current and prior years is as follows: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 61.2 54.1 54.5 60.8 45.3 Fair value of plan assets 63.7 56.7 54.4 47.2 37.5 Surplus deficit 2.5 2.6 0.1 13.6 7.8 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 0.1 0.4 0.5 2.6 0.7 Experience adjustments on plan assets 2.2 2.6 3.1 5.4 10.7 Sensitivity analysis The table on page 154 provides the sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
Sensitivity factor Discount rate The impact of a change in the principal actuarial assumptions on the discount rate for the present value of pension scheme obligations.
This sensitivity analysis has been selected to reflect the changes to discounted cash flows as a result of changes to the discount rate.
The methodology adopted involves actuarial techniques.
Inflation rate The impact of a change in the principal actuarial assumptions on the inflation rate for the present value of pension scheme obligations.
This sensitivity analysis has been selected to reflect the changes to the general level of prices of goods and services over time.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Retirement benefits obligations continued Sensitivity analysis Discount Discount Inflation Inflation rate rate rate rate 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% At 31 December 2012 Impact on profit before tax m Impact before tax on total equity m 3.0 3.2 3.1 3.0 At 31 December 2011 Impact on profit before tax m Impact before tax on total equity m 2.6 2.6 2.5 2.4 The most recent funding valuation of the defined benefit scheme took place at 1 October 2011.
The Group has agreed to make contributions of 2.8 million per annum from 2013 to 2016 for the future accrual of benefits, and does not anticipate any material change to the level of funding before the next valuation, which is due on 1 October 2014.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans, details of which and their financial effect are set out below: Free share awards During the year ended 31 December 2012, upon listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Group offered all employees a free share award granting shares to the value of 250 to each eligible employee free of charge.
These awards will be satisfied using market-purchased shares.
The details of the award are set out below: Type of arrangement Free share award Date of grant 27 November and 3 December 2012 Number granted 1,951,950 Forfeited during the period 3,718 Vested during the period 8,151 Number outstanding at 31 December 2012 1,940,081 Contractual life 3 years Vesting conditions Continuing employment or leavers in certain circumstances The awards outstanding at 31 December 2012 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group for three years.
Awards granted under the plan will be exercised upon the award vesting date.
The estimated fair value of the free shares granted under the award is 3,942,939, or 2.02 per share award.
The fair value of each award is based upon the market value of the award at grant date of 2.02, applicable to both grants.
Long-Term Incentive Plan In November 2012, conditional awards were made over 3,159,625 ordinary shares under the Groups LTIP.
Senior management are eligible to participate in the LTIP and awards are granted in the form of a nil-priced option.
Under the scheme, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the following: continued employment by the Group and achieving predefined performance conditions associated with TSR and RoTE.
154 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements The awards are subject to both non-market and market-based performance conditions.
Value at Options over grant shares Number Granted during the year 5,001,813 3,159,625 Forfeited during the year Exercised during the year Expired during the year At 31 December 2012 5,001,813 3,159,625 In respect of the outstanding options at 31 December 2012, the exercise price was nil with a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.85 years.
The estimated fair value of the LTIP share awards made during the year, at the date of grant, was 5,001,813.
For awards with market-based performance conditions, this was calculated using the Monte-Carlo simulation model.
The inputs into the model were as follows: 2012 Share price pence 194 Exercise price pence 0 Volatility of Company share price % 27 Average comparator volatility % 32 Expected life years 3 Risk-free rate % 0.3 Expected dividend yields % 0 As historic data is not available for the Group, expected volatility was determined by calculating the median historic volatility for a group of comparable companies using daily share price data over a period commensurate with the expected life assumption.
The companies chosen as comparable companies for the LTIP award were from members of the TSR comparator group all companies in the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and are classified as being in the insurance sector.
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Prior to October 2012 certain employees benefited from share-based awards originally granted by RBS Group.
The expense incurred in respect of awards granted by RBS Group to Direct Line Group employees is not material and has been included within operating expenses.
RBS Group has indemnified Direct Line Group for all future costs in respect of RBS Group share-based awards made to Direct Line Group staff.
All costs in respect of these share awards for Direct Line Group employees have since been borne by RBS Group.
The RBS Group Remuneration Committee has agreed that RBS Group will be responsible for the settlement of the following outstanding LTIP Awards, with no charge to be made to Direct Line Group: LTIP awards in 2010 expected to vest in March 2013 LTIP awards in 2011 expected to vest in March 2014 LTIP awards in 2012 expected to vest in March 2015 It was agreed that the 2010 LTIP award scheme will continue to be settled in RBS Group shares: however, the 2011 and 2012 LTIP award schemes will be settled with Company shares currently held by RBS Group.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
Trade and other payables including insurance payables 2012 2011 m m Due to agents, brokers and intermediaries 6.9 4.8 Due to reinsurers 81.9 66.1 Due to insurance companies 13.8 5.4 Due to related parties 34.7 158.7 Trade creditors and accruals 201.0 184.6 Other creditors 107.8 287.6 Other taxes 81.7 86.5 Provisions 114.2 105.2 Deferred income 12.6 11.3 Total 654.6 910.2 On 2 April 2012, the Group acquired Direct Line Versicherung AG.
In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011, a liability for the payment to RBS Group for the transfer of ownership and control was recognised.
This liability was settled in April 2012.
Included within other creditors is an amount of nil 2011: 110.9 million in respect of an inter-company creditor with RBS Group.
Movements during the year in provisions are as follows: 1 Regulatory levies Restructuring Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2012 42.6 7.7 54.9 105.2 Charged to the income statement: Additional provisions 28.3 28.8 50.9 108.0 Used during year 37.7 5.6 55.7 99.0 At 31 December 2012 33.2 30.9 50.1 114.2 Note: 1.
Other provisions include 11.0 million 2011: nil held in respect of costs associated with vacated leasehold properties.
156 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements 36.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 2012 2011 m m Profit for the year 184.3 249.0 Adjustments for: Investment revenues 199.3 249.0 Instalment income 125.4 145.0 Other operating loss 2.1 12.4 Net fair value gains on assets at fair value through income statement 4.8 14.0 Finance costs 28.7 2.7 Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 0.3 Tax charge 64.8 93.9 Depreciation and amortisation expenses 43.1 31.5 Non-cash movement in demerger reserve 24.6 55.9 Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets 10.7 18.9 Impairment losses on financial investments 2.0 Impairment losses on reinsurance contracts 6.8 44.7 Profit on sale of available-for-sale financial investments 89.4 52.9 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 4.8 0.2 Profit on disposal of subsidiary 1.6 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 39.1 76.7 Movements in working capital Net decrease in net insurance liabilities 532.5 885.4 Net decrease in prepayments and accrued income and other assets 9.6 36.9 Net decrease in insurance and other receivables 86.5 238.4 Net increase in derivative financial instruments 0.4 Net decrease increase in trade and other payables including insurance payables 253.4 158.3 Increase in cash contribution to retirement obligation 2.5 2.5 Cash used by operations 731.4 378.0 Taxes paid received 232.4 20.7 Finance costs 2.0 2.5 Cash flow hedges 0.2 Net cash flow used by operating activities before investment of insurance assets 966.0 359.8 Interest received 327.7 440.8 Rental income received from investment property 4.4 7.1 Purchase of investment property 133.7 Proceeds on disposal of investment property 69.5 Distributions received from other investment funds 3.1 8.5 Proceeds on disposal maturity of available-for-sale financial assets 4,021.6 6,403.4 Net decrease increase in investment balances held with credit institutions 844.6 422.9 Purchases of available-for-sale investments 3,132.4 6,398.1 Cash generated from investment of insurance assets 2,004.8 38.8 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 37.
Contingencies and guarantees The Group did not have any contingent liabilities.
Companies within the Group have guaranteed the performance of certain contracts with insurance partners.
There was a guarantee in place from 1 June 2011 until 31 January 2012 of 70 million for events occurring up to 31 January 2012, although liability under this guarantee was reduced at 31 January 2012 to 58.5 million for events occurring after that date.
There are further guarantees in place which also relate to contracts with insurance partners for 90.3 million at 31 December 2012.
Commitments Operating lease commitments The Group leases vehicles under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The Group also leases vehicles and other assets under cancellable operating lease agreements.
2012 2011 m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 7.5 7.4 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2012 2011 m m Within one year 33.0 8.7 In the second to fifth years inclusive 92.3 19.0 After five years 250.5 9.3 Total 375.8 37.0 Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessor Future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Within one year 7.8 7.1 In the second to fifth years inclusive 26.6 28.2 After five years 41.2 27.4 Total 75.6 62.7 158 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements 39.
Classification of financial instruments The following table analyses the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities in accordance with the categories of financial instruments in IAS 39.
Non-financial assets and liabilities outside the scope of IAS 39 are shown separately.
Other than those financial assets and liabilities stated at fair value below, the carrying value of all other financial assets and liabilities equals their fair value.
Assets liabilities Other Non-financial at fair AvailableLoans and amortised assets value for-sale receivables costs liabilities Total At 31 December 2012 m m m m m m Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 421.5 421.5 Property, plant and equipment 92.4 92.4 Investment property 128.9 128.9 Reinsurance assets 1,102.0 1,102.0 Deferred tax assets 22.5 22.5 Current tax assets 5.5 5.5 Deferred acquisition costs 327.6 327.6 Insurance and other receivables 1,164.0 1,164.0 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 82.6 82.6 Derivative financial instruments 37.5 37.5 Retirement benefit asset 2.5 2.5 Financial investments 7,156.5 645.0 7,801.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1,508.4 1,508.4 Assets held for sale 1.0 1.0 37.5 7,156.5 3,317.4 2,186.5 12,697.9 Liabilities Subordinated liabilities 787.5 787.5 Insurance liabilities 6,398.5 6,398.5 Unearned premium reserve 1,872.9 1,872.9 Borrowings 90.9 90.9 Derivative financial instruments 6.5 6.5 Trade and other payables including insurance payables 540.4 114.2 654.6 Deferred tax liabilities 20.9 20.9 Current tax liabilities 34.5 34.5 6.5 1,418.8 8,441.0 9,866.3 Total equity 2,831.6 12,697.9 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 39.
Classification of financial instruments continued Assets liabilities Other Non-financial at fair AvailableLoans and amortised assets value for-sale receivables costs liabilities Total m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 365.8 365.8 Property, plant and equipment 46.9 46.9 Investment property 69.5 69.5 Reinsurance assets 741.6 741.6 Deferred tax assets 26.9 26.9 Deferred acquisition costs 310.5 310.5 Insurance and other receivables 1,252.9 1,252.9 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 92.2 92.2 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Retirement benefit asset 2.6 2.6 Financial investments 7,990.7 1,489.6 9,480.3 Cash and cash equivalents 1,379.8 1,379.8 Assets held for sale 1.0 1.0 0.1 7,990.7 4,122.3 1,657.0 13,770.1 Liabilities Insurance liabilities 6,509.0 6,509.0 Unearned premium reserve 1,931.6 1,931.6 Borrowings 317.9 317.9 Trade and other payables including insurance payables 805.0 105.2 910.2 Deferred tax liabilities 12.1 12.1 Current tax liabilities 218.0 218.0 1,122.9 8,775.9 9,898.8 Total equity 3,871.3 13,770.1 160 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements 40.
Related parties On 1 December 2008, the UK Government through HM Treasury became the ultimate controlling party of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and is therefore the ultimate controlling party of Direct Line Group.
The UK Governments shareholding is managed by UK Financial Investments Limited, a company wholly owned by the UK Government.
This gives rise to related party transactions and balances, specifically in respect of tax with HMRC and debt security investments with the UK Government.
Direct Line Groups immediate holding company is The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc which is incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in Scotland.
At 31 December 2012, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc heads the largest group in which Direct Line Group is consolidated.
Copies of the consolidated financial statements of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc may be obtained from The Secretary, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, Gogarburn, PO Box 1000, Edinburgh EH12 1HQ.
The following transactions were carried out with related parties, who are all members of RBS Group.
Sales of insurance contracts and other services 2012 2011 m m Parent 0.1 Fellow subsidiaries 7.0 17.6 Total 6.9 17.6 ii.
Purchases of services 2012 2011 m m Parent 223.8 287.9 Fellow subsidiaries 46.9 63.9 Total 270.7 351.8 Purchases of services are charged on an arms length basis.
Employee costs recharged by RBS Group include the full costs of key managers and other staff in respect of share-based payments.
The attribution among members of RBS Group has regard to the needs of RBS Group as a whole.
Compensation of key management 2012 2011 m m Short-term employee benefits 5.6 4.2 Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.4 Other long-term benefits 1.5 2.1 Termination benefits 2.2 0.1 Share-based payments 0.5 0.1 Total 10.4 6.9 For the purposes of IAS24 Related party disclosures, key management personnel comprise the Directors of the Company, Non-Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 40.
Year end balances arising from cash and investment transactions with members of the RBS Group 2012 2011 notes m m Cash at bank held with related parties 25 69.1 48.4 Short-term bank deposits held with related parties 25 28.8 148.4 Bank overdrafts held with related parties 32 90.9 64.2 Derivative financial assets and liabilities 23 23.0 0.1 Term deposits held with related parties 24 50.0 147.0 Total 80.0 279.7 Debt securities held with related parties note 24 2012 2011 m m RBS Group issuers 75.0 304.6 v. Year end balances arising from sales and purchases of products and services Receivables from related parties note 22 2012 2011 m m Parent 0.3 0.1 Fellow subsidiaries 4.8 7.6 Total 5.1 7.7 Movements in receivables from related parties were as follows: 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 7.7 7.6 Transactions in the year 68.0 7.3 Settled in the year 70.6 7.2 At 31 December 5.1 7.7 Included in the above is an amount of 69.5 million in the year ended 31 December 2012, invoiced to and paid by RBS Group for the purchase of investment properties.
Due to related parties note 35 2012 2011 m m Parent 5.4 75.1 Fellow subsidiaries 29.3 83.6 Total 34.7 158.7 162 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements Movements in amounts due to related parties were as follows: 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 158.7 44.7 Transactions in the year 294.6 261.0 Settled in the year 418.6 147.0 At 31 December 34.7 158.7 Included in the above is an amount of 39.3 million in the year ended 31 December 2012, invoiced by and paid to RBS Group for the acquisition of furniture, fittings and IT hardware.
Furthermore, also included is an amount of 31.3 million paid to the RBS Group pension scheme see note 33 for further details.
Loans from related parties note 32 2012 2011 m m Parent 12.5 Fellow subsidiary 235.2 Total 247.7 Movements in loans to related parties were as follows: 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 247.7 249.2 Loans received during the year 205.0 Loan repayments made 246.4 205.5 Interest charged 2.7 2.3 Interest settled 2.7 2.3 Exchange movement 1.3 1.0 At 31 December 247.7 During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Group repaid its loans from RBS Group in preparation for operational separation.
Post balance sheet events On 8 January 2013, the Group repaid undated subordinated loans of 258.5 million to TPF.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 163
