Financial statements Glossary Term Denition ABI SORP Association of British Insurers Statement of Recommended Practice.
Actuarial best estimate The probability-weighted average of all future claims and cost scenarios calculated using historical data, actuarial methods and judgement.
Capital The funds invested in the Group, which includes funds invested by shareholders and retained profits.
Claims frequency The number of claims divided by the number of policies per annum.
Claims reserve provision Funds set aside by the Group to meet the estimated cost of claims payments and related expenses that the for losses and loss Group calculates will ultimately be required to be paid.
adjustment expense Combined operating ratio The sum of the loss, expense and commission ratios.
The ratio is a measure of the amount of claims costs COR and expenses compared to net earned premium generated.
A ratio of less than 100% indicates profitable business.
Commission ratio The ratio of commission expense divided by net earned premium.
Current year attritional The loss ratio for the current accident year excluding the impact of movement of reserves relating to previous loss ratio accident years and claims relating to weather events in the Home division.
Earnings per share The amount of the Groups profit allocated to each Ordinary Share of the Group.
Expense ratio The ratio of operating expenses divided by net earned premium.
Commission Amounts paid to brokers, partners and PCWs for generating business.
Finance costs The cost of servicing the Groups external borrowings and subordinated liabilities.
Financial Services Authority The independent body that regulates the financial services industry in the UK.
FSA Gross written premium The total premiums for the period from contracts incepted during the period.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
Incurred but not reported Funds set aside to meet the cost of claims for accidents that have taken place, but have not yet been IBNR reported to us.
Incurred loss Claims that have been paid plus claims advised by a policyholder but not paid.
Does not include IBNR see above.
In-force policies The number of policies on a given date that are active and against which the Group will pay following a valid insurance claim.
Initial Public Offering IPO The first sale of shares by a previously unlisted company to investors on a securities exchange.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard.
Insurance reserves This consists of general and life insurance liabilities, unearned premium reserve and liability adequacy reserve.
Investment income yield The annualised investment return earned through the income statement during the period, divided by the average assets under management AUM for each asset class during the same period.
The investment return excludes realised gains, impairments and fair value adjustments whilst the average AUM for the period is derived by taking the opening and closing balances for the period.
Investment return The income earned from the investment portfolio.
Investment return yield The total annualised investment return earned through the income statement during the period, including all one-off items such as realised gains, fair value adjustments and impairments, divided by the average AUM for each asset class during the same period.
Loss ratio Net insurance claims divided by net earned premium.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 173 Glossary continued Term Denition Net asset value The net asset value of the Group is calculated by subtracting total liabilities from total assets.
Net claims The cost of claims incurred in the period less any claims costs recovered under reinsurance contracts.
It includes both claims payments and movements in claims reserves.
Net earned premium The element of gross written premium less reinsurance premium ceded for the period that insurance cover has already been provided.
Ogden discount rate The discount rate set by the relevant government bodies and used to calculate lump sum awards in bodily injury cases.
Operating profit The pre-tax profit generated by the activities of the Group, including insurance and investment activity, but excluding finance costs.
Periodic payment order These are payments as awarded under the Courts Act 2003.
PPO RBS Group The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and its subsidiary companies.
Reinsurance Contractual arrangements whereby the Group transfers part or all of the insurance risk accepted to another insurer.
Relevant government bodies The Ogden discount rate for use in England, Wales and Northern Ireland is set by the Lord Chancellor, with the rate for Scotland set by the Scottish Ministers.
Reserves Funds that have been set aside to meet outstanding claims and IBNR.
Return on equity Return on equity is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the owners of the company by average ordinary shareholders equity for the period.
Return on tangible equity Return on tangible equity is adjusted profit after tax from ongoing operations divided by the Groups average RoTE tangible shareholders equity.
profit after tax is adjusted to exclude Run-off operations and restructuring and other one-off costs and is stated after charging tax using the UK standard tax rate.
Pro forma RoTE is based on RoTE, but assumes that the capital actions taken by the Group 1 billion dividend payment and 500 million long-term subordinated debt issue occurred on 1 January 2012.
Run-off Where the Group no longer underwrites new business but continues to meet its claims liabilities under existing contracts.
SME Small and medium-sized enterprises.
Solvency II The proposed capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry, which establishes a revised set of EU-wide capital requirements and risk management standards.
SOX 404 Sarbanes Oxley Act, Section 404.
Total shareholder return Compares the movements in the share price and dividends paid over a period of time, as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the period.
UK Corporate Governance The UK Corporate Governance Code, dated June 2010 and issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Code the Code Underwriting profit loss The profit or loss from operational activities, excluding investment performance.
It is calculated as: Net earned less Net insurance less Total premium claims expenses 174 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
