Financial statements Cautionary statement about forward-looking statements This Annual Report & Accounts has been prepared for, beyond the Groups control.
Forward-looking statements are and only for, the members of the Company as a body, and not guarantees of future performance.
The Companys actual no other persons.
The Company, its Directors, employees, results of operations, financial condition and the development agents or advisers do not accept responsibility to any other of the business sector in which the Group operates may person to whom this document is shown or into whose differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability statements contained in this document including, but not limited is expressly disclaimed.
to, UK domestic and global economic business conditions, market-related risks such as uctuations in interest rates and Certain information contained in this document including exchange rates, the policies and actions of regulatory authorities any information as to the Groups strategy, plans or future including changes related to capital and solvency requirements financial or operating performance constitute forward-looking or the Ogden discount rate, the impact of competition, currency statements.
These forward-looking statements may be identied changes, ination, deation, the timing impact and other by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant aims, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, industries, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation and may, plans, predicts, projects, seeks, should, targets other regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Group and its or will or, in each case, their negative or other variations afliates operate.
In addition, even if the Companys actual or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, results of operations, financial condition, and the development plans, objectives, goals, future events or intentions.
These of the business sector in which the Group operates are consistent forward-looking statements include all matters that are not with the forward-looking statements contained in this document, historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout those results or developments may not be indicative of results or this document and include statements regarding the intentions, developments in subsequent periods.
beliefs or current expectations of the Directors concerning, amongst other things: the Companys results of operations, The forward-looking statements contained in this document financial condition, prospects, growth, strategies and the industry reect knowledge and information available as of the date of in which the Group operates.
Examples of forward-looking preparation of this document.
The Company and the Directors statements include financial targets which are contained in this expressly disclaim any obligations or undertaking to update document specically with respect to RoTE, the Groups COR, or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as the COR for the Groups commercial business, and cost savings.
a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and required to do so by applicable law or regulation.
Nothing uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on in this Annual Report & Accounts should be construed as circumstances that may or may not occur in the future or are a profit forecast.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 175
