Directors report: Corporate governance Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Directors responsibility statement and the financial statements in accordance with applicable We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: law and regulations.
1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, are required to prepare the Group financial statements in financial position and profit or loss of the Company and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of a whole: and the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent 2. the management report, which is incorporated into the company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not and performance of the business and the position of the approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In risks and uncertainties that they face.
preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: By order of the Board t properly select and apply accounting policies: Paul Geddes, John Reizenstein, t present information, including accounting policies, in Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable 27 February 2013 27 February 2013 and understandable information: t provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and t make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 95 Contents 35.
Trade and other payables including Financial statements insurance payables 156 Independent auditors report 97 36.
Notes to the consolidated cash ow statement 157 37.
Classication of financial instruments 159 Consolidated income statement 98 40.
Related parties 161 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 99 41.
Post balance sheet events 163 Consolidated balance sheet 100 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 101 Parent company financial statements Consolidated cash ow statement 102 Parent company balance sheet 164 Parent company statement of comprehensive income 165 Notes to the consolidated Parent company statement of changes in equity 165 financial statements Parent company cash ow statement 166 1.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 111 Notes to the parent company 3.
Instalment and other operating income 131 3.
Earnings and net assets per share, 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets 137 13.
Directors and key management remuneration 170 20.
Insurance liabilities, unearned premium reserve and reinsurance assets 146 31.
Life insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 150 32.
Share-based payments 154 96 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
