Financial statements Additional information Market Shareholders can also access their current shareholding details The Company has a primary listing on the UK Listing Authoritys online at www.
Investor Centre Ofcial List and its Ordinary Shares are admitted to trading on is a free-to-use, secure, self-service website where shareholders the London Stock Exchange.
can manage their holdings online.
The website enables shareholders to: Share ownership Share capital t check their holdings: The details of the Companys share capital is presented in note t update their records including address and direct 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
credit details : Dividends t access all their securities in one portfolio by setting up a The Group aims to generate long-term sustainable value personal account: for shareholders, while balancing all operational, regulatory, t vote online: and rating agency and policyholder requirements.
The Board t register to receive electronic shareholder communications.
has adopted a progressive dividend policy for the Company, which will aim to increase the dividend annually in real The website requires shareholders to quote their Shareholder terms to reect its cash ow generation and long-term Reference Number in order to access this information.
Shareholder warning It is expected that one third of the annual dividend will The Group is aware that fraudsters are placing unsolicited generally be paid in the third quarter as an interim dividend phone calls or engaging in correspondence concerning and two thirds will be paid as a final dividend in the second investment matters with a view to defrauding investors.
quarter of the following year.
The Board may revise the Shareholders are warned that they may receive an approach dividend policy from time to time.
from persons purporting to be brokers or to be representatives of the Company.
These fraudsters are using increasingly In addition, if the Board believes that the Group has capital sophisticated means to approach shareholders, and they can that is surplus to the Boards view of its requirements, it is be persistent and extremely persuasive.
The FSA, reports that intended that it will be returned to shareholders.
The Company the average amount lost by investors in a share scam is around may consider a special dividend and the repurchase of 20,000, with as much as 200 million being lost in total in its own shares as a means of distributing surplus capital the UK each year.
Even seasoned investors have been caught to shareholders.
out, with the biggest individual loss recorded by the police being 6 million.
The Company pays its dividends in Pounds Sterling to shareholders registered on its principal register in the UK.
Shareholders are also warned to consider carefully any unsolicited offers they receive to buy their shares.
Some Shareholders may have their cash dividends paid directly into companies make offers to shareholders for their shareholdings a bank or building society by completing a dividend mandate at prices signicantly below what they could expect on the form, which is available from the Companys Share Registrar market.
Although it is not against the law to make an unsolicited Registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC in the UK.
offer to buy someones shares, it is illegal to mislead or deceive Contact details for the Registrar are set out on the inside back shareholders into accepting any offer.
The offer must also comply cover of this report.
Alternatively, shareholders may access their with strict legal requirements, including prominent details of the shareholdings online and download a dividend mandate from shares current market value.
Shareholders are urged to seek the Investor Centre.
Please see the inside back cover for details.
independent professional advice to protect themselves against a poor deal.
Shareholder enquiries Shareholders with queries on any matter relating to their shares If you receive an unsolicited call: are invited to contact our Registrar using the contact details listed on page 176 of this Annual Report & Accounts.
t make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation: Shareholders should notify the Registrar of any change in shareholding details in a timely manner.
t check that they are properly authorised by the FSA by visiting www.
uk register : and t if the call persists, hang up.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 171 Additional information continued For further advice and tips on how to identify and Dealing facilities avoid investment scams, access the FSAs advice at: Shareholders can buy, sell or transfer DLG shares through a http: www.
uk pages consumerinformation stockbroker or a high street bank, or through the Registrars scamsandswindles safe boiler room index.
Tips on how you can protect your shares The Registrar may be contacted regarding their share-dealing t Ensure all your certicates are kept in a safe place, facility by telephone or by email as follows: or consider holding your shares in the UKs electronic t for telephone sales call 44 0 870 703 0084 between registration and settlement system for equity, CREST, 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding public or via a nominee.
holidays: and t Keep all correspondence from the Registrar that shows your t for internet sales log on to www.
shareholder reference number in a safe place and shred You will need your shareholder reference number as shown unwanted correspondence.
on your share certicate or your welcome letter from t Inform the Registrar as soon as you change your address.
t If you receive a letter from the Registrar regarding a change 1 Financial calendar of address and you have not recently moved, please contact them immediately.
2013 t Be aware of when the dividends are paid and contact the 28 February Announcement of results for 2012 Registrar if you do not receive your dividend.
t Consider having your dividends paid directly into your bank 6 March Ex-dividend date for 2012 final dividend account you will need to ll out a dividend mandate form 8 March Record date for 2012 final dividend and send it to the Registrar : this reduces the risk of the cheque being intercepted or lost in the post.
3 May First quarter 2013 Interim t If you change your bank account, inform the Registrar Management Statement of the details of your new account immediately.
6 June A nnual General Meeting t If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers registered in the UK or in your country of residence.
11 June Payment date for 2012 final dividend t Be aware that the Company will never contact you by 2 August An nouncement of half year results for 2013 telephone concerning investment matters.
If you receive such a call from a person purporting to represent the 14 August Ex-dividend date for 2013 interim dividend Group please contact the Company Secretary immediately.
16 August R ecord date for 2013 interim dividend Corporate website 26 September Payment date for 2013 interim dividend The Groups corporate website is www.
It contains more useful information for the Companys investors 1 November Third quarter 2013 Interim and shareholders, including press releases, forthcoming events, Management Statement essential shareholder information, a financial calendar and details of the Companys AGM.
You may also subscribe for Note: email news alerts.
These dates are subject to change Electronic communications and voting Annual General Meeting The Group produces a range of communications which The 2013 AGM will be held on 6 June 2013 at The Auditorium, shareholders can receive in a range of formats.
View online, Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD, download or receive a paper copy by contacting the Registrar.
All shareholders will receive a separate The contact details can be found on page 176. notice convening the AGM, which will explain the resolutions to be put to the meeting.
Shareholders who register their email address with our Registrar or on the Investor Centre can be kept informed of events such as the AGM and receive shareholder communications like the Annual Report & Accounts and Notice of Meeting electronically.
172 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
