Glossary of Terms and Definitions Premium Actual Gearing The amount by which the market price per share of an Total Assets as below less all cash and fixed interest assets investment trust exceeds the net asset value per share.
The excluding convertibles divided by shareholders funds.
premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
Asset Cover The value of a companys net assets available to repay a Price Earnings Ratio certain security.
Asset cover is usually expressed as a The ratio is calculated by dividing the middle-market price multiple and calculated by dividing the net assets available per share by the earnings per share.
The calculation assumes by the amount required to repay the specific security.
no change in earnings but in practice the multiple reflects the stock markets view of a companys prospects and profit Discount growth potential.
The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust is lower than the net asset value per share.
Prior Charges The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the The name given to all borrowings including debentures, loan net asset value per share.
and short term loans and overdrafts that are to be used for investment purposes, reciprocal foreign currency loans, Dividend Cover currency facilities to the extent that they are drawn down, Earnings per share divided by dividends per share expressed index-linked securities, and all types of preference or as a ratio.
preferred capital and the income shares of split capital trusts, irrespective of the time until repayment.
Dividend Yield The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share Total Assets price.
Total Assets less current liabilities before deducting prior charges as defined above.
Net Asset Value The value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this Total Return purpose included current and long-term liabilities.
The net Total Return involves reinvesting the net dividend in the asset value divided by the number of shares in issue produces month that the share price goes xd.
The NAV Total Return the net asset value per share.
involves investing the same net dividend in the NAV of the trust on the date to which that dividend was earned, eg Ongoing Charges quarter end, half year or year end date.
Ratio of ongoing expenses expressed as percentage of average daily shareholders funds calculated as per the Winding-up Date industry standard.
The date specified in the Articles of Association for windingup a company.
Potential Gearing Total Assets including all debt being used for investment purposes divided by shareholders funds.
