Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also and accounts in accordance with applicable law and responsible for preparing a Directors' Report, Directors' regulations.
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and statements for each financial year.
Under that law they have integrity of the corporate and financial information included elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK on the Company's website.
Legislation in the UK governing Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and that: of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the preparing these financial statements, the Directors are applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of required to: the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Directors Report includes a fair review of the consistently: development and performance of the business and the make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and position of the Company, together with a description of the prudent: principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and For Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Allan McKenzie unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Chairman continue in business.
31 October 2012 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
