44 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 17.
Notes to the Cash Flow Statement continued c Analysis of changes in net debt DEBENTURE STOCK 31 MARCH CASH EXCHANGE NON-CASH 31 MARCH 2011 FLOW MOVEMENTS MOVEMENT 2012 000 000 000 000 000 Cash at bank 184 143 6 47 Cash fund short term deposits 160 160 Debentures 197,112 252 197,364 Net debt 196,928 17 6 252 197,157 18.
Risk Management and Financial Instruments Financial instruments The Companys financial instruments mainly comprise its investment portfolio as shown on page 10 and debentures as well as its cash, debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The accounting policies in note 1 include criteria for the recognition and the basis of measurement applied for financial instruments.
Note 1 also includes the basis on which income and expenses arising from financial assets and liabilities are recognised and measured.
The principal risks that an investment company faces in its portfolio management activities are set out below: Market risk arising from fluctuations in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk: currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk: Currency risk arising from fluctuations in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument because of changes in foreign exchange rates: Interest rate risk arising from fluctuations in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument because of changes in market interest rates: and Other price risk arising from fluctuations in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument for reasons other than changes in foreign exchange rates or market interest rates.
Liquidity risk arising from any difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities.
Credit risk arising from financial loss for a company where the other party to a financial instrument fails to discharge an obligation.
Risk Management Policies and Procedures The Directors have delegated to the Manager the responsibility for the day-to-day investment activities and management of gearing of the Company as more fully described in the Report of the Directors.
As an investment trust the Company invests in equities and other investments for the long-term so as to fulfil its investment policy incorporating the Companys investment objective.
In pursuing its investment objective, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks that could result in either a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction of the profits available for dividends.
These policies are summarised below and have remained substantially unchanged for the two years under review.
Market Risk The Companys Manager assesses the Companys exposure when making each investment decision, and monitors the overall level of market risk for the whole of the investment portfolio on an ongoing basis.
The Board meets at least quarterly to assess risk and review investment performance, as disclosed in the Board Responsibilities on page 21.
The debentures provide structural gearing, which is used to enhance returns but also increases the Companys exposure to market risk and volatility.
Currency risk The majority of the Companys assets and all of its liabilities are denominated in sterling.
There is some exposure to Euro, US dollar and Swiss franc.
