28 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued In accordance with the Financial Services Authority UK Listing Rules, the maximum price which can be paid is 5% above the average of the middle market values of the ordinary shares for the five business days before the purchase is made.
The minimum price which may be paid will be 25p per share, this being the nominal value of a share.
In making purchases, the Company will deal only with member firms of the London Stock Exchange.
The Company will finance the purchase of ordinary shares by using its existing cash balance or by selling securities in the Companys portfolio.
The Directors might consider holding repurchased shares as treasury shares with a view to possible resale.
Special Resolution 15: Notice Period for General Meetings The EU Shareholder Rights Directive, which was implemented in 2009, increased the notice period for general meetings of companies to 21 days unless certain conditions are met in which case it may be 14 days notice.
A shareholders resolution is required to ensure that the Companys general meetings other than Annual General Meetings may be held on 14 days notice.
Accordingly, Special Resolution 15 will propose that the period of notice for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs shall not be less than 14 days notice.
Special Resolution 16: Update of Articles of Association We have reviewed our Articles of Association in light of the full implementation of the Companies Act 2006.
As a result of that review we have decided to adopt a new set of Articles of Association.
An explanation of the main changes between the proposed and existing Articles of Association is set out in the Appendix on pages 53 to 55 of this document.
Other changes, which are of a technical or clarifying nature and also some minor changes which will merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 and other legislation have not been noted in the Appendix.
The proposed Articles of Association showing all the changes to the existing Articles of Association are available for inspection at the registered office and will be available at the AGM.
The Directors recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions.
Independent Auditor The Audit Committee has considered the independence of the auditors and the objectivity of the audit process and is satisfied that KPMG Audit Plc has fulfilled its obligations to shareholders as independent auditor to the Company.
Resolutions proposing the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as the Companys Auditors and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
Individual Savings Account ISA The ordinary shares of the Company are qualifying investments under applicable ISA regulations.
Supplier Payment Policy It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all business, including purchases of investments, and to abide by those agreed terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2012 2011: nil.
Donations The Company made no political or charitable donations during the year 2011: nil.
Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary 30 Finsbury Square London EC2A 1AG 31 May 2012
