THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The shares of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Managers Website are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Information relating to the Company can be found on the Managers website, which can be located at Savings Plan and ISA www.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is a member The contents of websites referred to in this of the Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings document, or accessible from links within those Scheme and the Invesco Perpetual Investment websites, are not incorporated in to, nor do they Trust ISA.
Shares in this Company can be form part of this annual financial report.
purchased and sold via these two schemes.
Financial Calendar Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings In addition, the Company publishes information Scheme according to the following calendar: The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings Scheme allows an investor to make monthly Announcements purchases from as little as 20 per month or Half-yearly unaudited results November through lump sum investments of 500 or above Interim Management in the shares of The Edinburgh Investment Trust Statements July and January plc in a straightforward and low cost way.
Final results May June Ordinary Share Dividends Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA 1st interim payable November The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA allows 2nd interim payable February investments up to 11,280 in shares of The 3rd interim payable May Edinburgh Investment Trust plc in the current tax Final payable July year.
Investors can also choose to make lump sum investments from 500, or regular Debenture Stock investments from as little as 20 per month.
Interest payable: 1 11 2% 2014 June and December 3 For full details of these Invesco Perpetual 7 4% 2022 September and March investment schemes please contact Invesco AGM July Perpetuals Investor Services Team free on 0800 085 8677.
Year End 31 March Location of AGM NAV Publication The one hundred and twenty third Annual The net asset value NAV of the Companys General Meeting of the Company will be held at ordinary shares is calculated by the Manager on a the Weston Link, National Galleries of Scotland, daily basis and is notified to the Stock Exchange Princes Street, Edinburgh on 20 July 2012 at on the next business day.
It is published daily in 11 am.
The investment manager, Neil Woodford, will be Share Price Listings making a presentation about the Company after The price of your shares can be found in the the AGM.
following places: Financial Times Investment Companies Daily Telegraph Investment Trusts The Times Investment Companies The Scotsman Equity Inv Instruments Reuters ordinary shares EDIN.
L Bloomberg ordinary shares EDIN LN Internet addresses Interactive Investor www.
co. uk Invesco Perpetual www.
co. uk investmenttrusts Association of www.
