THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 53 APPENDIX Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the Companys Articles of Association 1.
The Companys objects The provisions regulating the operations of the Company were until 1 October 2009 set out in the Companys memorandum and articles of association.
The Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a companys memorandum.
The CA 2006 provides that the memorandum will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under the CA 2006 the majority of the previous provisions of the memorandum, most notably the objects clause, are deemed to be part of the companys articles of association with effect from 1 October 2009.
Further the CA 2006 states that, unless a companys articles provide otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of the CA 2006, are treated as forming part of the Companys articles of association as of 1 October 2009.
This will be achieved by the adoption of new articles of association New Articles which contain no such provisions other than a statement regarding the limited liability of shareholders.
Change of name Article 3 Under the Companies Act 1985 CA 1985, a company could only change its name by special resolution.
Under the CA 2006 a company will be able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.
To take advantage of this provision, the New Articles enable the directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys name.
The directors currently have no intention of using this power.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares Former Article 3 The CA 2006 removes the concept of authorised share capital.
As with the objects clause see paragraph 1, the statement of authorised share capital previously contained in a companys memorandum of association is deemed with effect from 1 October 2009 to be a provision of the companys articles of association and takes effect as setting out the maximum number of shares that may be allotted by the company.
The adoption of the New Articles will have the effect of removing this provision.
The directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because an allotment authority continues to be required under the CA 2006, save in respect of employee share schemes.
Redeemable shares Article 5 Under the CA 1985, if a company wished to issue redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the terms and manner of redemption.
The CA 2006 enables directors to determine such matters instead provided they are so authorised by the articles.
The New Articles contain such an authorisation.
The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so the directors would need shareholders authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide shares, and reduce share capital Former Articles 7, 8 and 9 Under the CA 1985, a company required specific enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as well as shareholder authority to undertake the relevant action.
The current articles of association Current Articles include these enabling provisions.
Under the CA 2006 a company will only require shareholder authority to do any of these things and it will no longer be necessary for the articles to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly the relevant enabling provisions have been removed in the New Articles.
Suspension of registration of share transfers Article 34 and Former Article 35 The Current Articles permit the directors to suspend the registration of transfers for up to 30 days in any year, reflecting a provision of the CA 1985.
Under the CA 2006 share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The provision relating to registration of share transfers 54 APPENDIX continued has been updated accordingly and the provision which allowed the Company to suspend the registration of transfers has been removed in the New Articles.
Notice of general meetings Article 44 Under the CA 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings cannot be held on shorter notice than the statutory minimum period 21 days or 14 days depending on the nature of the meeting and the business to be conducted at it.
The New Articles therefore remove this provision.
Adjournments for lack of quorum Article 52 Under the CA 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting.
The New Articles reflect this requirement.
Electronic conduct of meetings Article 58 Amendments made to the CA 2006 by the Shareholders Rights Regulations specifically provide for the holding and conducting of electronic meetings.
The Current Articles have been amended to reflect more closely the relevant provisions.
Chairmans casting vote Former Article 59 The New Articles remove the provision giving the chairman a casting vote in the event of an equality of votes as this is no longer permitted under the CA 2006.
Voting by proxies on a show of hands Article 68 Under the CA 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, each proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
The New Articles reflect these changes and contain a provision clarifying how the provision of the CA 2006 giving a proxy a second vote on a show of hands should apply to discretionary authorities.
Timing for submission of proxy appointments Article 70 Article 70 has been amended to permit the directors to specify, in a notice of meeting, that in determining the time for delivery of proxy appointments, no account shall be taken of non-working days.
This brings the provisions relating to timing for proxy appointments into line with the provisions of Article 130 see paragraph 18 below regarding determining which persons may attend and vote at a general meeting.
Validity of votes by proxies and corporate representatives Article 72 Under the CA 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, proxies have an obligation to vote in accordance with the instructions given to them by the member appointing them.
The New Articles contain a provision stating that the Company is not required to enquire whether a proxy or corporate representative has voted in accordance with instructions given to him and that votes cast by a proxy or corporate representative will be valid even if he has not voted in accordance with these instructions.
The New Articles also provide that any objection to the qualification of a person voting must be made at the meeting at which the vote objected to is tendered or at the time any poll is taken and that the chairmans decision is final and binding.
The New Articles require a member to provide reasonable evidence of his and his proxys identity and also specify what a member must provide by way of evidence if a proxy is appointed by a person acting in behalf of a member.
Directors interests Articles 78-86 The provisions in the Current Articles dealing with directors conflicts of interest have been amended in line with market practice.
Under the New Articles certain conflicts of interest do not need to be authorised, for example an interest as a director of a group company.
Generally the nature and extent of any conflict of interest must be disclosed before it can be authorised or before it is permitted without being authorised: but the New Articles provide for some situations in which disclosure is not required where knowledge can be presumed and disclosure is unlikely to be necessary.
The New Articles also allow the board to exercise voting rights in group THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 55 companies without restriction e. g. so as to appoint a director to the board of a group company without this counting as a conflict requiring authorisation 15.
Use of seals Former Article 110 Under the CA 1985, a company required authority in its articles to have an official seal for use abroad.
Under the CA 2006, such authority is no longer required.
Accordingly, the relevant authorisation has been removed in the New Articles.
Execution of documents Article 113 Under the New Articles the Company will be able to execute a document as a deed in the presence of one director whose signature is witnessed.
Application of sums standing to credit of capital reserve Article 118 The Companies Act 2006 Amendment of Part 23 Investment Companies Regulations 2012 removed the requirement that the articles of association of an investment company must prohibit the distribution of capital profits.
The New Articles reflect this change and no longer prohibit the distribution of capital profits by way of dividend.
Record date for right to attend and vote at meetings Article 130 The New Articles include a new provision, not in the Current Articles, dealing with the method for determining which persons are allowed to attend or vote at a general meeting of the Company and how many votes each person may cast.
Under this new provision, when convening a meeting the Company must specify a time, not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting excluding any part of a day that is not a working day, by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
This reflects a new provision introduced by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the CA 2006 are in the main removed in the New Articles.
This is in line with the approach advocated by the Government that statutory provisions should not be duplicated in a companys constitution.
