58 SPECIALIST FUNDS MANAGED BY INVESCO PERPETUAL Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth from equities, fixed interest securities or property primarily in the UK equity market.
The portfolio is geared by City Merchants High Yield Trust Limited bank debt.
A Jersey incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed income Invesco Property Income Trust Limited instruments combined with a degree of security.
The Company The Company is a closed-ended investment company with is geared by bank debt.
limited liability incorporated in Jersey.
The objective is to provide ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of Invesco Income Growth Trust plc income together with the prospect of income and capital Aims to provide shareholders with a long-term growth in growth from investing in commercial properties in the UK and capital and real, long-term growth in dividends from an Continental Europe.
The Company is geared by bank debt.
above-average yielding portfolio comprising mainly UK equities and equity-related securities.
Seeks to achieve a total Keystone Investment Trust plc return in excess of the FTSE All-Share Index.
The Company is Aims to provide shareholders with long-term growth of capital geared by bank debt.
The Company is geared by way of debenture stocks.
Invesco Leveraged High Yield Fund Limited A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc provide a high level of income, paid gross to UK investors, Aims to generate capital growth with a higher than average whilst seeking to maximise total return through investing, income from investment, primarily in the UK equity market.
primarily in a diversified portfolio of high-yielding corporate and It is intended that the Company will provide shareholders government bonds.
The Company seeks to balance the with real dividend growth over the medium-term by investing attraction of high-yield securities with the need for protection mainly in above-average yield equities.
However, investments of capital and to manage volatility.
The Company is highly are also made in companies with lower initial yields which are geared.
considered to have good potential for income growth.
The Company is geared by a debenture stock and bank debt.
Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Managed Liquidity Share Portfolio The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Aims to generate a high level of income from a variety of Invests in UK securities with long term objective of achieving: fixed income instruments combined with a high degree of security.
1. an increase in the Net Asset Value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index: and Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Share 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK Portfolio inflation.
Portfolio Aims to generate long-term capital and income growth with real growth in dividends from investment, The Company is geared by way of two debenture stocks.
Investing in Smaller Companies Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc Aims to achieve long-term total returns for the Companys shareholders from investment in a broad cross-section of small to medium size UK-quoted companies.
The Company may gear by bank debt.
Investing Internationally Invesco Asia Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Global Equity Income Portfolio Aims to provide long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of Asian and Australasian securities.
The Aims to provide an attractive and growing level of income Company aims to achieve growth in its net asset value in excess return and capital appreciation over the long term, of the Morgan Stanley Capital International All Country Far predominately through investment in a diversified portfolio East Free ex Japan Index, measured in sterling.
The Company of equities worldwide.
The portfolio is geared by bank debt.
Investing for Total Returns Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Balanced Risk Portfolio Aims to provide shareholders with an attractive total return The portfolio is constructed so as to balance risk, is long-only, in differing economic and inflationary environments and with using transparently-priced exchange-traded futures contracts low correlation to equity and bond market indices by gaining and other derivative instruments to gain such exposure and to exposure to three asset classes: debt securities, equities and provide gearing.
Investing in Multiple Asset Classes Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Share Portfolio A choice of asset classes within one investment trust with the Global Equity Share Portfolio freedom to switch between them, twice a year, free from Managed Liquidity Share Portfolio capital gains tax liability.
Balanced Risk Portfolio Please contact our Investor Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trusts or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 59 NOTES Linkway Financial Printers Typeset & Printed in London UK 16052
