The Chairman carried out a formal appraisal of each of the Directors during the year and the Board, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, similarly appraised the Chairman.
Relevant matters considered included the attendance and participation at Board and Committee meetings, commitment to Board activities and the effectiveness of the contribution made by the relevant Director.
As a result of this process, the Chairman has confirmed that each of the Directors being proposed for re-election continues to be effective and that each of them continues to show commitment to his her role.
The Senior Independent Director has also confirmed the continuing effectiveness and commitment of the Chairman.
Directors Terms of Appointment It is the Boards policy that Directors shall retire and be subject to appointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board and be subject to re-election at least every third year thereafter.
Directors who have served for more than nine years and who wish to continue in office are required to submit themselves for re-election annually.
The Board does not believe that length of service disqualifies a Director from seeking re-election.
The AIC Codes provisions on re-election of Directors state that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Whilst the Company is a constituent of the FTSE 350, the Board does not consider it to be in the interests of shareholders that all Directors should be re-elected annually.
A number of shareholders in the Company have supported this view on the basis that annual re-election could engender a short term culture.
Therefore the Company did not introduce annual re-election of Directors at the Annual General Meeting held in 2012 and at future Annual General Meetings it will continue to comply with the requirements of the Companys Articles and the Boards policy on Directors Terms of Appointment in relation to the re-election of Directors.
Re-election of Directors In accordance with the Companys Articles and the Boards policy on Directors Terms of Appointment, Dr Bowe will retire at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2013 and offer herself for re-election.
Mr Yates will offer himself for election at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2013.
Biographical details of the Directors seeking election or re-election are set out on pages 82 and 83.
Independent Professional Advice Individual Directors may seek independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense within certain parameters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Company Secretary Frostrow Capital LLP acted as the independent Company Secretary in addition to its role as Board Advisor during the year under review.
The Audit Committee The Board is supported by the Audit Committee which comprised all the Directors during the year, other than the Chairman of the Board, Dr Bowe.
Mr Perkin is Chairman of the Committee.
The Board has taken note of the suggestion that at least one member of the Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience and is satisfied that the Committee is properly constituted in this respect.
Its authority and duties are clearly defined in its written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
The Committees responsibilities include: Q monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the financial statements, the internal financial controls and the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors: Q making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and approving their remuneration and terms of their engagement: Q developing and implementing the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: Q reviewing the arrangements in place within Electra Partners whereby their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters insofar as they may affect the Company: and Q considering annually whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 77 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
