Management Engagement Committee A Management Engagement Committee was established in 2011.
The Committee is chaired by Mr Cullinan and comprises Ms Webber and Mr Yates, who has been appointed as a member of the Committee in place of Ms Barker.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
The Committees duties are to review the terms of the management contract to ensure that they are competitive and sensible for shareholders by satisfying itself that the investment management of the Companys portfolio is in accordance with the Investment Policy: satisfying itself that all other duties of the Manager are being performed: reviewing the overall performance of the Manager: and deciding, at the intervals prescribed by the Management Agreement, on the continuation or termination of the agreement and by agreeing the terms and fees of any ongoing agreement.
The Committee met three times during the year to agree its terms of reference and to review the performance of the Manager.
Induction and Training New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee and which includes being briefed fully about the Company by the Chairman, senior executives of Electra Partners and the Company Secretary.
Following appointment, the Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with Directors their training and development needs as necessary to enable them to discharge their duties.
The Companys Relationship with its Shareholders The Company places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Company, in conjunction with Electra Partners endeavours to provide the fullest information on the Company to its shareholders, maintaining a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and City analysts, as well as making a number of presentations and visits throughout the year.
Meetings are held with principal shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise.
At the Annual General Meeting all shareholders are welcome to attend and have the opportunity to put questions to the Board and hear a presentation from Electra Partners covering the investment performance during the last financial year.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including receipt of the annual report and accounts.
All proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, the level of proxies lodged for each resolution is announced at the Meeting and is published on the Companys website.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination, Valuations and Management Engagement Committees are normally available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting each year.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director can be contacted either through the Company Secretary, Frostrow Capital LLP, at 25 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1AL or at the Companys registered office at Paternoster House, 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB.
Internal Control The Board confirms that it has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place throughout the year and has continued since the year end.
It is reviewed at regular intervals by the Board.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and has reviewed its effectiveness for the year ended 30 September 2012.
This review encompasses all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Companys consolidated annual financial statements, along with the half-yearly financial statements and interim management statements are prepared in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 79 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
