the shares of that class, but not otherwise.
At every such separate meeting other than an adjourned meeting the quorum shall be two persons together holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class in question excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares.
At an adjourned meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding shares of the class in question other than treasury shares or his proxy.
Transfer of shares The instrument of transfer of a share in certificated form may be in any usual form or in any other form which the Directors approve and shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and, where the share is not fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee.
Where any class of shares is, for the time being, a participating security, title to shares of that class which are recorded on an operator register of members as being held in uncertificated form may be transferred by means of the CREST system.
The transfer may not be in favour of more than four transferees.
Transfers of shares in uncertificated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
The Directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form which is not fully paid provided that if the share is listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority such refusal does not prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form whether fully paid or not unless the instrument of transfer: a is lodged, duly stamped, at the Office or at such other place as the Directors may appoint and except in the case of a transfer by a financial institution where a certificate has not been issued in respect of the share is accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: b is in respect of only one class of share: and c is in favour of not more than four transferees.
If the Directors refuse to register a transfer of a share, they shall as soon as practicable and in any event within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with the Company in the case of a transfer of a share in certificated form or the date on which the Operator-instruction was received by the Company in the case of a transfer of a share in uncertificated form to a person who is to hold it thereafter in certificated form send to the transferee notice of the refusal together with reasons for the refusal.
The Directors shall send such further information about the reasons for the refusal to the transferee as the transferee may reasonably request.
Nothing in the Articles shall preclude the Directors from recognising a renunciation of the allotment of any share by the allottee in favour of some other person.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Unless otherwise determined by the Company by ordinary resolution the number of Directors disregarding alternate Directors shall not be less than three nor more than fifteen.
At the annual general meeting in every year all Directors who held office at the time of each of the two preceding annual general meetings and who did not retire at either of them shall retire from office by rotation and such further Directors if any shall retire by rotation as would bring the number retiring by rotation up to one-third of the number of Directors in office at the date of the notice of the meeting or, if their number is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not greater than one third.
The additional Directors to retire shall be those who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment, but, as between persons who became or were last reappointed Directors on the same day, those to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
Any non-executive Director other than the chairman who has held office as a non-executive Director for nine years or more shall retire from office at each annual general meeting and shall be eligible for reappointment.
A Director who retires at an annual general meeting may be reappointed.
If he is not reappointed or deemed to have been reappointed, he shall retain office until the meeting elects someone in his place or, if it does not do so, until the close of the meeting.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 71 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
