The principal change to the Current Articles relates to the Companys status as an investment trust.
Certain of the tax and company legislation governing investment trusts has been amended recently, including the repealing of the rule which required investment trusts to contain a provision in their articles of association prohibiting the distribution as dividends of surpluses arising on the realisation of investments classified as capital.
In compliance with the previous legislative regime, the Current Articles contain articles 131 and 147 which prohibit the payment of dividends out of the Companys capital reserves.
The Directors are advised that one of the consequences of the amended legislation is that the Company should now change its Articles so that it could, if required, pay a dividend from capital reserves in order to maintain investment trust status.
Accordingly, articles 131 and 147, which contain express prohibitions on making distributions out of capital, are proposed to be deleted.
In addition, the following changes to the Current Articles are being proposed: Q deleting from article 43 the provision regarding capital reduction, as a company no longer requires express power in its articles to reduce share capital: Q amending article 68 to allow shareholders to vote on a show of hands on the basis of one man one vote, as is customary: Q amending article 79 to meet the requirements of section 330 of the Companies Act regarding minimum timing requirements for terminating proxy appointments: Q deleting articles 129, 131, 132, 146 and 147, which currently require and or permit the Directors to i maintain a capital reserve and revenue account: and ii allocate certain receivables to revenue profits available for dividends.
As the result of the legislative amendments outlined above, these provisions are no longer necessary for the purpose of making distributions and it is proposed that they be deleted to avoid any inadvertent inconsistency with the accounting standards applied by the auditors: Q amending article 158 to clarify that the right to cease sending communications and documents to those shareholders who are no longer residing at their last known address extends to annual and interim reports: and Q inserting a number of minor drafting changes, mostly to align the use of defined terms.
A copy of the New Articles marked to show the changes which are proposed to be made to the Current Articles is available for inspection at the address set out on page 92 from the date of this document until the close of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes before and during the meeting.
Authority to Purchase own Shares Resolution 8 A special resolution will be proposed to renew the Boards authority to purchase its own shares, so as to permit the purchase of up to 5,297,524 of the Companys ordinary shares or such lesser number of shares as is equal to 14.99% of the total number of ordinary shares in issue at the date of the passing of the resolution subject to the constraints set out in the special resolution.
The Directors would intend to use this authority to purchase shares only if this would result in an increase in net asset value per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Should any shares be purchased under this authority, it is the intention of the Board that such shares be cancelled.
The Directors believe that the renewal of the Boards authority to purchase shares, as detailed above, is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and therefore recommend shareholders to vote in favour of Resolution 8.
Additional Information for Shareholders Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys current Articles of Association the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
Alteration of Articles of Association Any change to the Companys Articles of Association needs to be approved by shareholders by means of a special resolution.
Share Capital The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
The shares are in registered form.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 69 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
