Dividends and Distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% interest of a class of shares if such a person has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Voting Rights Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands, every member who is present in person has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed has one vote for every complete 25p in nominal amount of the shares of which he is the holder.
However if the proxy has been duly appointed by more than one member entitled to vote on the resolution, and is instructed by one or more of those members to vote for the resolution and by one or more others to vote against it, or is instructed by one or more of those members to vote in one way and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or more others and wishes to use that discretion to vote in the other way he has one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
Every corporate representative present who has been duly authorised by a corporation has the same voting rights as the corporation would be entitled to.
On a poll every member present in person or by duly appointed proxy or corporate representative has one vote for every share of which he is the holder or in respect or which his appointment as proxy or corporate representative has been made.
A member, proxy or corporate representative entitled to more than one vote need not, if he votes, use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses the same way.
In the case of joint holders the vote of the senior who tenders a vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders, and seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names of the holders stand in the register of members.
A member is entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend and to speak and vote at a meeting of the Company.
The appointment of a proxy shall be deemed also to confer authority to demand or join in demanding a poll.
Delivery of an appointment of proxy shall not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting or at any adjournment of it.
A proxy need not be a member.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
Restrictions on Voting No member shall have the right to vote at any general meeting or at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him unless all amounts presently payable by him in respect of that share have been paid.
In addition if a person with a 0.25% interest of a class of shares has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006 the member shall not be entitled to vote.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of a proxy form in hard copy and electronic form of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
In the case of a poll taken subsequently to the date of the meeting or adjourned meeting, the proxy form must be received not less than 24 hours or such shorter time as the Directors may determine before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
Variation of rights The Articles specify that if the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, rights attached to any class may be varied, either in such manner if any as may be provided by those rights: or in the absence of any such provision, with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of 70 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012
