Substantial Interests The Company has received the following notifications of interests of 3% or more in the voting rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares: Percentage of Voting Rights Voting Rights Notified Indirect Direct Indirect Direct No.
% % Prudential PLC group of companies 3,172,146 1,825 8.98 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 2,121,030 6.00 Legal & General Group PLC 1,409,952 3.99 HSBC Holdings PLC 2,491,558 7.05 Percentage shown as a percentage of 35,340,391 ordinary shares, being the number of shares in issue at the latest practicable date before the publication of this Directors Report.
Audit Information Each of the Directors confirms that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware and they have taken all steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting authorising the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
The Auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Creditor Payment Policy The Company agrees the terms of payment with its suppliers when agreeing the terms of each agreement.
Suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and the Company abides by the terms of payment.
The average number of days a creditor is outstanding is five days.
Going Concern The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are described in the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Highlights, the Portfolio Review and the Business Review.
At each Board meeting, the Directors review the Companys latest financial information.
The Board regularly considers commitments to private equity investments, long-term cash flow projections for the Company and the use of gearing.
After due consideration of the balance sheet and activities of the Company and the Companys assets, liabilities, commitments and financial resources, the Directors have concluded that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Accounts of the Company.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday 7 March 2013.
In addition to the ordinary business the following special business will be considered: Adoption of New Articles of Association Resolution 7 A special resolution will be proposed to adopt new articles of association the New Articles in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing articles of association the Current Articles.
Details of the proposed changes are set out below.
Shareholders are being asked to vote on Resolution 7 in order to effect the changes and adopt the New Articles.
Having considered the effects of the proposed Resolution 7, the Directors are of the opinion that it does not pose any material risks.
The Directors believe that adopting the New Articles is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of Resolution 7.
68 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012
