23 Provision for Liabilities and Charges Group Company 30 Sept 2012 30 Sept 2012 000 000 000 000 Incentive scheme provision At 1 October 2011 37,434 37,434 48,931 48,931 Amounts paid under incentive schemes 12,469 12,469 12,469 12,469 24,965 24,965 36,462 36,462 Increase in incentive scheme provision 7,331 7,331 7,331 7,331 32,296 32,296 43,793 43,793 Liability in subsidiaries 3,302 3,302 At 30 September 2012 32,296 32,296 40,491 40,491 Group Company 30 Sept 2011 30 Sept 2011 000 000 000 000 Incentive scheme provision At 1 October 2010 35,358 65,970 Amounts paid and payable under incentive schemes 9,111 9,111 26,247 56,859 Increase in incentive scheme provision 11,187 11,187 37,434 68,046 Liability in subsidiaries 19,115 At 30 September 2011 37,434 48,931 24 Basis of Accounting and Significant Accounting Policies The Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2012 have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
IFRS comprises standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC as adopted in the European Union as at 30 September 2012.
In order to reflect the activities of an investment trust company, supplementary information which analyses the Consolidated Income Statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Consolidated Income Statement.
In analysing total income between capital and revenue returns, the Directors have followed the guidance contained in the Statement of Recommended Practice for investment companies issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2009 the SORP.
The recommendations of the SORP which have been followed include: Q Realised and unrealised profits or losses arising on the revaluation or disposal of investments classified as held at fair value through profit or loss should be shown in the capital column of the Income Statement.
Realised gains are taken to the realised reserves in equity and unrealised gains are transferred to the unrealised reserves in equity.
Q Returns on any share or debt security whether in respect of dividends, interest or otherwise should be shown in the revenue column of the income statement.
The total of the revenue column of the Income Statement is taken to the revenue reserve in equity.
Q The Board should determine whether the indirect costs of generating capital gains should also be shown in the capital column of the Income Statement.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 53 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview 24 Basis of Accounting and Significant Accounting Policies continued If the Board decides that this should be so, the management fee should be allocated between revenue and capital in accordance with the Boards expected long term split of returns, and other expenses should be charged to capital only to the extent that a clear connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of investments can be demonstrated.
The Board has decided that the Company should continue to charge priority profit share and finance costs, other than those in relation to the Zero Dividend Preference shares, as revenue items for the year ended 30 September 2012.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, capital reserve may not be distributed by way of dividend.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and accordingly has not presented a separate parent company income statement.
The Accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost basis of accounting, modified to include the revaluation of certain assets at fair value, as disclosed in the Principles of Valuation of Investments.
Application of New Standards At the balance sheet date, the Company has adopted all Standards and IFRIC interpretations that were either issued, or which become effective, during the year.
None of the standards applicable during the year were relevant and did not have a significant impact on the financial statements or accounting policies.
New Standards to be Applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the IASB and the IFRIC have issued the following standards, amendments and interpretations to be applied to financial statements with periods commencing on or after the following dates: Q IFRS 13 Fair value measurement effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to EU endorsement This standard aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across all IFRSs.
Q Amendment to IAS 34 Interim financial reporting effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to EU endorsement This amendment clarifies the disclosure requirements for segment assets and liabilities in interim financial statements.
A measure of total assets and liabilities is required for an operating segment in interim financial statements only if such information is regularly provided to the decision makers and there has been a material change in those measures since the last annual financial statements.
Q IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to EU endorsement This standard builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements.
The standard provides additional guidance to assist in determining control where this is difficult to assess.
Q IFRS 9 Financial instruments: Classification and measurement effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015, subject to EU endorsement This standard will replace IAS 39 and clarifies and simplifies the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
None of the standards, amendments and interpretations are expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group 54 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 24 Basis of Accounting and Significant Accounting Policies continued Basis of Consolidation The consolidated Accounts include the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Where subsidiaries are acquired or sold during the year their results are included in the consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition and up to the date of disposal respectively.
A subsidiary is an entity where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
The principal subsidiaries comprise wholly owned companies and near wholly owned investment holding limited partnerships set up by the Company through which investments are made and through which external borrowings for investment purposes are raised.
The holdings in investment holding limited partnerships and wholly owned investment holding companies are included in the consolidated financial statements, on the basis that they are considered to be special purpose entities of the Company, which have been set up for the specific purpose of holding investments.
These investment holding limited partnerships and wholly owned investment holding companies are considered to be controlled by the Company under the interpretation of SIC 12 Special Purpose Entities as the Company enjoys predominantly all the risks and rewards from their activities.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Investments The Board have appointed Electra Partners LLP Electra Partners, an independent investment manager, under a contract of full discretionary management to manage the investments of the Company.
This is effected through the Management and Investment Guideline Agreement and the relevant limited partnership agreements of the investment holding limited partnerships through which the Company makes its investments.
Under these agreements Electra Partners as Manager, has full power to exercise the voting rights attaching to any of the Companys investments without reference to the Board.
Consequently, the Company does not have the power to participate in or govern the financial and operating policies of any of its investments and therefore even where the holding is greater than 50% of the equity, or between 20% and 50% of the equity, investments are not consolidated or accounted for using the equity method respectively.
Purchases and sales of listed investments and floating rate notes are recognised on the trade date where a contract exists whose terms require delivery within a time frame determined by the relevant market.
Purchases and sales of unlisted investments are recognised when the contract for acquisition or sale becomes unconditional.
Investments are designated at fair value through profit or loss described in the Accounts as investments held at fair value and are subsequently measured at reporting dates at fair value.
The fair value of direct unquoted investments is calculated in accordance with the Principles of Valuation of Investments below.
Changes in the fair value of investments are recognised in the Income Statement through the capital column.
Principles of Valuation of Investments i General In valuing investments, Electra Partners the Manager values investments at Fair Value at the reporting date, in accordance with IAS 39.
Fair Value represents the amount for which an asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
In estimating Fair Value, the Manager uses a methodology which is appropriate in light of the nature, facts and circumstances of the investment and its materiality in the context of the total investment portfolio.
Methodologies are applied consistently from one period to another except where a change results in a more accurate estimate of Fair Value.
ii Unlisted Investments The principal methodologies applied in valuing unlisted investments include the following: Q Earnings multiple Q Price of recent investment Q Net assets Q Discounted cash flows Q Industry valuation benchmarks Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 55 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview 24 Basis of Accounting and Significant Accounting Policies continued In assessing whether a methodology is appropriate the Manager will be biased towards those methodologies that draw heavily on market based measures of risk and return, favouring those that rely on observable market data rather than assumptions.
Typically an earnings multiple basis will be used.
In applying the earnings multiple methodology, the Manager applies a market based multiple that is appropriate and reasonable to the maintainable earnings of the portfolio company.
In the majority of cases the Enterprise Value of the underlying business is derived by the use of an earnings multiple applied to the current years earnings where these can be forecast with a reasonable degree of certainty and are deemed to represent the best estimate of maintainable earnings.
Where this is not the case, historic earnings will generally be used in their place.
Q The Enterprise Value of the underlying business will be calculated using the earnings multiple or other appropriate basis as above : Q The Enterprise Value of the underlying business will then be adjusted for surplus assets or excess liabilities to arrive at an Enterprise Value for the portfolio company: and Q The valuation of Electras investment will be calculated from the Enterprise Value for the portfolio company after deduction of prior ranking debt and other financial instruments.
The Manager will normally derive the earnings multiple by reference to current market based multiples reflected in the valuations of quoted comparable companies or the price at which comparable companies have changed ownership.
Differences between the comparator multiple and the unquoted company being valued are reflected by adjusting the multiple for points of difference.
The reasons why such adjustments may be necessary include the following: Q Size and diversity of the entities Q Rate of growth of earnings Q Reliance on a small number of key employees Q Diversity of product ranges Q Diversity and quality of customer base Q Level of borrowing Q Any other reason the quality of earnings may differ Q Risks arising from the lack of marketability of the shares Where a recent investment has been made, either by Electra or by a third party in one of Electras investments, after considering the background of the underlying investment, this price will generally be used as the estimate of Fair Value, subject to consideration of changes in market conditions and company specific factors.
Other methodologies, as detailed above, may be used at any time if this is deemed to provide a more accurate assessment of the Fair Value of the investment.
The indicators that the price of recent investment may no longer be appropriate include: Q Significant under over achievement of budgeted earnings Q Concerns with respect to debt covenants or refinancing Q Significant movements in the market sector of the investment Q Regulatory changes in the industry The Companys valuation model for debt instruments is the net present value of estimated future cash flows based on a discounted cash flow model.
The discount rate used by the Company is based on the risk-free rate of the economic environment in which portfolio companies operate and is adjusted in relation to other factors such as liquidity, credit and market risk.
Similar to the earnings multiple model the cash flows used in the discounted cash flow model are based on projected cash flow or earnings of the portfolio companies.
56 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 24 Basis of Accounting and Significant Accounting Policies continued iii Listed Investments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
iv Limited Partnership Funds Limited partnership funds are those set up by a third party where the Company does not hold a majority share and are at fair value, typically using the third party managers valuation after adjustment for purchases and sales between the date of the valuation and current financial year end.
v Other Investments Liquidity funds are held at the current fair value of the note.
Accrued Income Accrued income is included within investment valuations.
Derivative Financial Instruments Derivative financial instruments are used by the Group to manage the risk associated with changes in interest rates on its borrowings.
This is achieved by the use of interest rate swaps and interest rate caps.
All derivative financial instruments are held at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value on the contract date and subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value of currency swaps and interest rate swaps is determined with reference to future cash flows and current interest and exchange rates.
All changes in the fair value of financial instruments are accounted for in the Income Statement.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash comprises cash at bank and short term deposits with an original maturity of less than three months.
Foreign Currencies The Groups presentational currency and the Companys functional and presentational currency is pounds sterling sterling, since that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Transactions in currencies other than sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into the functional currencies of the Groups respective entities at rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising are recognised through the Income Statement.
At each balance sheet date assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation of the equity and reserves of subsidiaries with functional currencies other than sterling, are recognised directly in the Translation Reserve in equity.
Foreign exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Income Statement for the period.
Investment Income Net Gains Dividends receivable from equity shares are accounted on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, are accounted when the Groups right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on non-equity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield when it is probable that economic benefit will flow to the Group.
Where income accruals previously recognised, but not received, are no longer considered to be reasonably expected to be received, either through investee company restructuring or doubt over its receipt, then these amounts are reversed through expenses.
Income distributions from limited partnership funds are recognised when the right to distribution is established.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 57 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview 24 Basis of Accounting and Significant Accounting Policies continued Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are charged through the revenue column of the Income Statement except for expenses in connection with the disposal and acquisition of non-current asset investments, which are deducted from the disposal proceeds and added to acquisition costs of investments.
Finance Costs Costs of borrowings are expensed as revenue items through the Income Statement as they accrue on an effective interest rate basis.
Any costs incurred which were not directly related to the borrowing facility are expensed in the revenue account.
Priority Profit Share The majority of the investments are made by the Company through investment holding limited partnerships managed by Electra Partners.
Under the terms of the relevant limited partnership agreements the general partner is entitled to appropriate, as a first charge on the net income or net capital gains of the limited partnerships, an amount equivalent to its priority profit share.
In periods in which the investment holding limited partnerships have not yet earned sufficient net income or net capital gain to satisfy this priority profit share the entitlement is carried forward to the following period.
In all instances the cash amount paid to the general partner in each period is equivalent to the priority profit share.
The priority profit share is charged wholly to the revenue column of the Income Statement.
Taxation The tax effect of different items of income gain and expense loss is allocated between capital and revenue on the same basis as the particular item to which it relates, using the Companys effective rate of tax for the accounting period.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Zero Dividend Preference Shares Zero Dividend Preference Shares which exhibit the characteristics of debt are recognised as liabilities in the Balance Sheet in accordance with IAS 32.
After initial recognition, these liabilities are measured at amortised cost, which represents the initial net proceeds from the issuance after issue costs plus the accrued entitlement to the balance sheet date.
The accrued entitlement is calculated as the difference between the proceeds on the issue of these shares and the redemption amount at maturity and is charged as interest expense over the life of these shares using the effective interest method.
In accordance with the AIC SORP this interest expense is allocated to the capital column of the Income Statement.
Convertible Bonds The Bond, in accordance with IFRS, has been treated as a compound financial instrument that contains both a liability and an equity component.
The economic effect of issuing the instrument is substantially the same as issuing both a debt instrument with an obligation to payment of interest and principal assuming it is not converted and an equity instrument a written call option granting the holder the right for a specified period of time to convert into a fixed number of ordinary shares.
The proceeds from issuing Convertible Bonds are split on Electras balance sheet into its constituent parts of debt and equity in accordance with the requirement of IFRS.
The fair value of the debt element of the bond has been calculated by using a market rate of interest for a similar borrowing that does not include an equity component or a conversion option.
The rate used for these purposes was 9.9%, which, using discounted cash flow, gives a fair value for the debt component of 73.2 million after deducting the pro rata costs of issue of 2.8 million.
The fair value of the equity element is calculated by deducting the fair value of debt from the issue value of the Bond after deducting the pro rata costs of 0.9 million.
58 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 24 Basis of Accounting and Significant Accounting Policies continued Finance costs are taken to the Income Statement and are calculated as the yield to maturity of the fair value of the debt component of the Bond.
On conversion the value of the Bonds converted will be debited to long-term liabilities.
The nominal value of the ordinary shares issued on conversion will be credited to share capital and the balance representing the excess of conversion proceeds over nominal value of the shares will be credited to the share premium account.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation of uncertain timing or amount as a result of past events and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate of that obligation can be made.
The provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the amount to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Changes in provisions are recognised in the Income Statement.
The provision for the incentive schemes is based on the valuation of investments as at the balance sheet date.
The incentive scheme is charged to the capital column of the Income Statement as a direct cost.
Revenue and Capital Reserves Net Capital return is taken to the non-distributable Capital Reserve in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
The net revenue return is taken to the Revenue Reserve from which dividend distributions are made.
Bank Loans and Receivables Bank loan is initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the loan.
After initial recognition, these are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the liabilities.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Share Capital Ordinary shares issued by the Group are recognised at the proceeds or fair value received with the excess of the amount received over nominal value being credited to the share premium account.
Direct issue costs net of tax are deducted from equity.
Key Estimates and Assumptions Estimates and judgements used in preparing the financial information are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable.
The resulting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The key estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities relate to the valuation of unquoted investments.
These are valued by Electra Partners in accordance with IAS 39.
Judgement is required in order to determine the appropriate valuation methodology under this standard and subsequently in determining the inputs into the valuation model used.
These judgements include making assessments of the future earnings potential of portfolio companies, appropriate earnings multiples to apply, and adjustments to comparable multiples.
See note 24 on Principles of Valuation of Investments on page 55.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 59 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
