Government policy and regulation risk The Company carries on business as an investment trust under section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010.
Retention of investment trust status is subject to the Company conducting its affairs in a manner which will satisfy annually the HM Revenue and Customs conditions for continuing approval as an investment trust.
Expected and actual changes in government policy and treatment of investment trusts are closely monitored, as are other changes which could affect the Companys business or financial position.
Electra Partners is an authorised person under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and is regulated by the FSA.
Changes to the regulatory framework under which Electra Partners operates are closely monitored by Electra Partners and reported upon as necessary by Electra Partners to the Board.
Investment risks The Company operates in a very competitive market.
Changes in the number of market participants, the availability of funds within the market, the pricing of assets, or in the ability of Electra Partners to access deals could have a significant effect on the Companys competitive position and on the sustainability of returns.
In order to source and execute good quality investments the Company is primarily dependent on Electra Partners having the ability to attract and retain executives with the requisite investment experience and whose compensation is in line with the Companys objectives.
Once invested, the performance of the Companys portfolio is dependent upon a range of factors.
These include but are not limited to: i the quality of the initial investment decision: ii the ability of the portfolio company successfully to execute its business strategy: and iii actual outcomes against the key assumptions underlying the portfolio companys financial projections.
Any one of these factors could have an impact on the valuation of a portfolio company and upon the Companys ability to make a profitable exit from the investment within the desired timeframe.
A rigorous process is put in place by Electra Partners for managing the relationship with each investee company.
This includes regular asset reviews and in many cases, board representation by one of Electra Partners executives.
The Board reviews both the performance of Electra Partners and its incentive arrangements on a regular basis to ensure that both are appropriate to the objectives of the Company.
Valuation risk In order to value investments correctly, the Company is primarily dependent on Electra Partners following Accounting Standards, in this case IAS 39 as further detailed on page 55.
Operational risk The Companys investment management, custody of assets and many administrative systems are provided or arranged for the Company by Electra Partners.
Therefore the Company is exposed to a range of operational risks at Electra Partners which might arise from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external factors affecting these.
These include operational events such as human resources risks, legal and regulatory risks, information technology systems failures, business disruption and shortcomings in internal controls.
The Companys system of internal control mainly comprises the monitoring of the services provided by Electra Partners, including the operating controls established by them to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives, as further detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 75 to 80.
Management Arrangements Electra Partners is appointed as the Manager of the Company under a management agreement dated 12 October 2006.
The agreement may be terminated by either party giving notice of not less than 12 months.
Whatever notice period is worked, Electra Partners will be entitled to receive additional compensation equivalent to 12 months priority profit share determined by reference to the previous 12 months priority profit share.
If Electra Partners terminates the management agreement, Electra may pay compensation in lieu of any part of the notice period but Electra Partners is not entitled to any additional compensation.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 65 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
