In addition the Company is also focused on the following risks: Macroeconomic risks The performance of the Companys underlying portfolio is principally influenced by a combination of economic conditions, the availability of appropriately priced debt finance, interest rates and the number of active trade and financial buyers.
All of these factors have an impact on the Companys ability to invest, the Companys ability to exit from its underlying portfolio and the levels of profitability achievable on exit.
Gearing risks The Company uses gearing in a number of forms, through its multi-currency revolving credit facility, its Subordinated Convertible Bonds Bonds and Zero Dividend Preference Shares ZDP Shares.
At 1 October 2011, the Company had a revolving credit facility of 185 million which was due to expire in January 2013.
In October 2011, this was refinanced with the facility increasing in size to 195 million and the loan term being extended to June 2016.
In December 2010, the Company issued 100 million of 5% Subordinated Convertible Bonds which have their final redemption in 2017 unless they are converted into ordinary shares.
In 2009, Electra Private Equity Investments PLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, issued ZDP Shares, which have their final capital entitlement due in 2016, which represents a form of gearing for the Company.
All of these forms of gearing rank prior to the Companys ordinary shares, with the multi-currency revolving credit facility ranking higher than the ZDP Shares which in turn rank higher than the Bonds.
The Company may also invest in unquoted companies or private equity funds which are geared by loan facilities that rank ahead of the Companys investment both for payment of interest and capital.
One of the principal risks of gearing is that it can cause both gains and losses in the asset value of the Company to be magnified.
Another significant risk associated with gearing is the potentially severe operational impact on the Company of a breach of its banking covenants.
Secondary risks relate to whether the cost of gearing is too high and whether the length of the gearing is appropriate.
The Board regularly monitors the headroom available under banking covenants and reviews the impact of the various forms of gearing and their cost to the Company.
Foreign Currency Risk The Companys total return and net assets are affected by foreign exchange translation movements as a significant proportion of the investments held are denominated in currencies other than sterling.
The foreign investments held are principally held in the USA, Continental Europe and the Far East.
During the year, the Company held loans denominated in US Dollars and Euros, which partially offset foreign currency risk on foreign currency investments.
The ratio of loans held in US Dollar and Euro is under regular review in order to partially hedge as efficiently as possible.
Long-term strategic risk The Company is subject to the risk that its long-term strategy and its level of performance fail to meet the expectations of its shareholders.
The Board monitors the level of discount of share price to net asset value per share and considers the most effective methodologies to keep this at a minimum, including the share buy-back policy.
With the need to fund the future redemption of the ZDP shares and anticipating attractive investment opportunities, the Board considers that the purchases of shares for cancellation will be less likely in the medium term.
Nevertheless, Directors will continue to seek shareholder authority on an annual basis to enable them to purchase shares for cancellation when they believe it will be in the best interests of shareholders.
In addition the Board regularly reviews the Objective and Investment Policy in light of prevailing investor sentiment to ensure the Company remains attractive to its shareholders.
64 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012
