Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy-eighth Annual General Meeting of Electra Private Equity PLC will be held at 12.00 noon on Thursday 7 March 2013 in The Great Hall at The Saddlers Hall, 40 Gutter Lane, London EC2V 6BR for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive the reports of the Directors and Auditors and the Group Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2012.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 which is set out in the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company for the year ended 30 September 2012.
To elect Mr R Yates as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Dr C Bowe as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the Auditors.
Special Business As Special Business, to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions as Special Resolutions: 7.
Special resolution to amend the Companys Articles of Association: That the New Articles produced to the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the Meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the articles of association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the Current Articles.
Special resolution to renew share buyback authority: That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the said Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each, provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 5,297,524 or such lesser number of shares as is equal to 14.99 per cent of the total number of ordinary shares in issue as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 25 pence: iii the maximum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased: iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per ordinary share as determined by the Directors : and v unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the earlier of 7 June 2014 or the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2014 save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
By order of the Board of Directors Frostrow Capital, Secretary, 25 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1AL 27 November 2012 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 87 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview Notes 1 Members of the Company who are entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote at the Meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
2 A member may vote at the Annual General Meeting subject to being on the Register of Members as at 6pm on 5 March 2013.
3 A Form of Proxy is enclosed.
To be effective, the Form of Proxy and any power of attorney under which it is executed or a duly certified copy of any such power must reach the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA, not less than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting or adjourned Meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the Meeting or adjourned Meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a member from attending and voting at the Meeting.
Replacement forms of proxy may be obtained from the Companys Registrar.
4 In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those holders of ordinary shares entered on the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 5 March 2013 the Specified Time shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after the Specified Time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the Meeting.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified Time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purposes of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purposes of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If, however, the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period, then to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at a time which is not more than 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
5 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 March 2013 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
For a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CREST specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings www.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
88 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 6 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
7 Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
On a vote by show of hands, every member and every duly appointed proxy who is present in person shall have one vote.
On a poll vote, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
8 Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
A member that is a company may appoint either a proxy or a corporate representative.
Members wishing to appoint a corporate representative should examine the Companys Articles of Association and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
9 Under Regulation 12, Section 319A of the Shareholder Rights Directive, the Company must answer any question relating to the business being dealt with at the Meeting put by a member at the Meeting.
However, the Company need not answer if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the Meeting or b to answer would involve the disclosure of confidential information or c the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question or d it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting that the question be answered.
10 Information about the Annual General Meeting is published on www.
11 The following documents will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted from the date of this Notice until the close of the Annual General Meeting, and will be available at the place of the Annual General Meeting from 11.45 am until the conclusion of the Meeting: a the current Articles of Association of the Company: b a copy of the Articles of Association as proposed to be adopted by Resolution 7: and c the terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
12 Short biographical details regarding Mr Yates and Dr Bowe are contained on pages 82 and 83.
13 The total number of issued ordinary shares voting rights in the Company on 21 November 2012, which is the latest practicable date before the publication of this document, is 35,340,391.
14 Shareholders may require the Company to place on its website a statement, made available also to the Companys auditors, setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit, which shareholders intend to raise at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company becomes required to place such a statement on the website once a members with at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company or b at least 100 members who are entitled to vote and on whose shares an average sum per member of at least 100 has been paid have submitted such a request to the Company.
Members seeking to do this should write to the Company providing their full name and address.
15 You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Meeting or any related documents including the Form of Proxy to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in Electra Private Equity PLC, you should pass this document and other relevant accompanying documents other than any personalised form of proxy and or letter to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale transfer was made for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 89 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview Notes 90 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 Notes Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 91 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
