134 | SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION | Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the thirty-third Annual General Meeting of arrangements and for the settlement of awards made F&C Asset Management plc will be held at Ironmongers Hall, under the management share plans but without Shaftesbury Place, Barbican, London EC2Y 8AA on Friday 10 May prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to 2013 at 11 a. m. UK time for the following purposes: the date hereof: and 2 unless renewed, revoked or varied in accordance with Ordinary Business the Act, shall expire at the completion of the Annual To be proposed as ordinary resolutions: General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2014, 1.
To receive the Financial Statements and the Reports of the save that the Company may before such expiry make an Directors and the Independent Auditor for the year ended offer or agreement which would or might require the 31 December 2012. allotment of shares in the Company, or the right to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the 2.
To declare a final dividend of 2.0 pence per share on the ordinary Company, after such expiry: and shares of the Company to be paid on 24 May 2013 to members whose name appears on the register of members at the close of C for the purpose of this Resolution, Pre-Emptive Offer business on 5 April 2013. means an offer of equity securities to: 3.
To elect Richard Wilson as a Director.
1 holders of ordinary shares other than the Company on a fixed record date in proportion to their respective 4.
To re-elect Edward Bramson as a Director.
holdings of such shares: and 5.
To re-elect Keith Bedell-Pearce as a Director.
2 other persons entitled to participate in such offer by 6.
To re-elect Keith Jones as a Director.
virtue of the rights attaching to any other equity 7.
To re-elect David Logan as a Director.
To re-elect Keith Percy as a Director.
in each case, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or 9.
To re-elect Derham ONeill as a Director.
appropriate in relation to fractional entitlements, legal, 10.
To re-elect Kieran Poynter as a Director.
regulatory or practical problems under the laws or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange of 11.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year any territory or otherwise.
To be proposed as special resolutions: 12.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor to the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at 14.
THAT: which Financial Statements are laid before the Company and to A subject to the passing of resolution 13 set out in this Notice authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
the Allotment Authority, the Directors be given power 13.
THAT: pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section A pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 560 1 of the Act for cash, pursuant to the authorities given Act, the Directors be generally and unconditionally by the Allotment Authority, and to sell treasury shares wholly authorised to allot: for cash, as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any 1 shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe such allotment or sale, provided that such power shall be for or to convert any security into shares in the limited to the allotment of equity securities or the sale of Company, up to a maximum nominal amount of treasury shares: 185,041.76, subject to paragraph A 2 : and 1 in the case of paragraph A 1 of the Allotment 2 shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe Authority, a in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer as for or to convert any security into shares in the defined in the Allotment Authority : or b in order to Company, comprising equity securities within the satisfy options or awards under any share scheme for meaning of section 560 1 of the Act up to a maximum employees or share incentive plan approved by the nominal amount when aggregated with any allotment Company in general meeting: or c otherwise, up to a made pursuant to paragraph A 1 of 370,083.52 in maximum nominal amount of 27,759.04: connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer undertaken by 2 in the case of paragraph A 2 of the Allotment means of a rights issue: Authority, in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer B the authorities given in this Resolution: undertaken by means of a rights issue: 1 shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities to B the power given in this Resolution: allot shares under section 551 of the Act other than the 1 shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities specific authorities granted at the general meeting of the under section 570 of the Act but without prejudice to the Company held on 18 June 2010 to allot shares to satisfy exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof: the consideration payable in relation to the acquisition of and Thames River and the related commutation ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 135 2 unless renewed in accordance with the Act, shall expire and are hereby authorised to do all such acts and things as they at the same time as the Allotment Authority, save that may consider necessary or appropriate to carry the same into the Company may before such expiry make an offer or effect.
agreement which would or might require equity To be proposed as a special resolution: securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold 17.
THAT the period of notice for calling a general meeting other after such expiry.
than an Annual General Meeting shall be not less than 14 clear This power applies to a sale of shares which is an allotment days provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of of equity securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the Act as if the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2014. the words in the case of paragraph A 1 of the Allotment By order of the Board Authority, and in the case of paragraph A 2 of the Allotment Authority, were omitted from, respectively, W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA paragraphs A 1 and A 2 of this resolution.
THAT, in substitution for any existing power under section 701 of 80 George Street the Companies Act 2006 the Act, but without prejudice to the Edinburgh EH2 3BU exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally 25 March 2013 authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with section 701 of the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the Act of fully paid ordinary shares of 0.1 pence Notes each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares in such i A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and speak and vote on his her terms and in such manner as the Directors of the Company may behalf.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each decide, provided that: proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
A member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby attached to any one share.
A proxy need not be a member of the authorised to be purchased is 55,518,079 being Company.
approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share ii A Form of Proxy for use by Ordinary Shareholders in connection with the capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at meeting is enclosed with the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
To 22 March 2013 : be valid, the Form of Proxy should be completed and signed and sent or delivered, together with any power of attorney or other authority under ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share which it is signed or an extract from the Books of Council and Session or is 0.1 pence exclusive of expenses : and a notarially certified copy or a copy certified in accordance with the iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be Powers of Attorney Act 1971 of such power or authority, in accordance with the instructions contained therein, so as to reach the Companys paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per registrars, at the address stated thereon, not later than 11 a. m. UK time cent of the average of the middle market quotations as on 8 May 2013. derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock iii Alternatively, shareholders who would like to lodge their proxy Exchange for the ordinary shares for the five business days electronically may do so via the Sharevote website immediately preceding the date of purchase, www.
co. uk or through CREST in each case so as to be received by no later than 11 a. m. UK time on 8 May 2013.
Further such authority to expire on the earlier of the date falling 15 details relating to proxy appointments through CREST are set out in note months after the date of the passing of this resolution and the xvi below.
If you return more than one valid proxy appointment in conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be respect of the same share, either by paper or electronic communication, held in 2014, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the one which is received last will take precedence.
If the Company is unable to determine which of them was received last, none of them will the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may at be treated as valid in respect of that share.
any time prior to the expiry of such authority enter into a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under such authority iv Completing and returning a Form of Proxy will not prevent an Ordinary Shareholder from attending in person at the meeting and voting should which will or might be completed or executed wholly or partly he or she wish to do so.
after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or v To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purposes of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, contracts as if this authority had not expired.
shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on Wednesday, 8 May 2013 or, in the event of Special Business any adjournment, on the date which is two days excluding any part of a To be proposed as an ordinary resolution: day that is not a working day before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be 16.
THAT the amendment to the rules of the F&C Asset disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at Management plc Long-Term Remuneration Plan the LTRP the meeting.
that is i summarised in the appendix to this Notice and ii vi If you are not a member of the Company but you have been nominated contained in the amended rules of the LTRP produced in draft to by a member of the Company to enjoy information rights, you do not the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of have a right to appoint a proxy.
identification be and is hereby approved and the Directors be 136 | SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION | Notice of Annual General Meeting vii If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the xiv A member may not use any electronic address provided either in this Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights: Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those You may have a right under an agreement between you and the expressly stated.
member of the Company who has nominated you to have information rights Relevant Member to be appointed or to have xv The Company has made provision for shareholders who would like to someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
You are referred to the section headed Voting Online on page 139 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
If you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right but do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right under an agreement xvi CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the between you and the Relevant Member to give instructions to the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights.
procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who viii Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor corporate representative s who may exercise on its behalf all of its or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST ix Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders meeting the service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the available via www.
The message, regardless of meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of valid, be transmitted so as to be received by our Registrars, Equiniti ID the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the RA19 by 11 a. m. UK time on 8 May 2013.
For this purpose, the time of shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006. applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instruction to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special website.
procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST x Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those xi In accordance with section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the contents of this Notice, details of the total number of shares in respect of CREST system and timings.
which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting and, The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated members matters of business received by the Company after the date of Securities Regulations 2001. this notice of meeting will be available on the Companys website at www.
xii As at 22 March 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 555,180,788 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each carrying one vote each.
No shares are held in treasury.
Therefore, total voting rights in the Company as at 22 March 2013 are 555,180,788. xiii Copies of the following documents will be made available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and at the Companys head office during normal business hours on any week day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of this notice until the close of the meeting, and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to and during the continuance of the meeting: the Executive Directors service contracts and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment: and the articles of association of the Company: and the rules of the LTRP marked up to show the proposed amendments.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 137 3.
Proposed amendment to the dilution limit Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meeting For the reasons outlined on page 24 of the Annual Report and Summary of the proposed amendment to the F&C Asset Financial Statements that accompany this Notice of Annual General Management plc Long-Term Remuneration Plan Meeting, resolution 16 seeks shareholder approval to amend the LTRPs rules by raising the above dilution limit from 10% to 15% of 1.
Introduction the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
No other change to The LTRP was originally adopted on 4 October 2004 and is used to these provisions is proposed and they will continue to be assessed grant awards over Ordinary Shares to selected employees, including over a rolling 10-year period.
Current dilution limit In this appendix, the following words and expressions bear the The rules of the LTRP currently provide that the number of Ordinary following meanings unless the context requires otherwise: Shares which may be placed under award on any day must not, when added to the aggregate number of Ordinary Shares placed LTRP The F&C Asset Management plc Long-Term Remuneration Plan: and under award or option in the previous ten years under the LTRP and any other employees share scheme operated by the Company, Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of 0.1p each in the capital exceed such number as represents 10% of the Companys issued of the Company.
ordinary share capital at that time.
For the purposes of this limit, the following are disregarded: a any Ordinary Shares that have been, or will be purchased, rather than allotted: b certain shares issued pursuant to the historic F&C Asset Management plc Reinvestment Plan: c certain shares issued pursuant to the acquisition of Thames River Capital and the related commutation arrangements and for the settlement of awards made under the Thames River Management Retention Plan and Management Incentive Plan: and d any Ordinary Shares subject to an award or option that has lapsed or otherwise become incapable of vesting.
