ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 47 Accounting Policies section 408 of that Act.
The Company Financial Statements, Basis of preparation and statement of compliance together with their respective accounting policies and notes, are These are the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset presented on pages 121 to 133.
Management plc and its subsidiaries the Group which have been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with Accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the The preparation of the Financial Statements necessitates the use of European Union EU adopted IFRS, and those parts of the estimates, assumptions and judgements.
These estimates, Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under assumptions and judgements affect the reported amounts of assets, adopted IFRS.
These Consolidated Financial Statements are liabilities, contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the reporting presented in millions of pounds Sterling, rounded to one decimal date as well as the reported income and expenses for the year.
point, except where otherwise indicated.
While estimates are based on managements best knowledge and Certain figures reported in the 2011 Financial Statements have been judgement using information and financial data available to them, reclassified within these Financial Statements for consistency with the actual outcome may differ from these estimates.
the presentation applied within these Financial Statements.
These The key sources of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in changes are presentational in nature and do not change the applying accounting policies are disclosed, where appropriate, in the previously reported financial results for the year ended 31 December following notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements: 2011 nor the aggregate assets and liabilities at that date.
a Impairment testing of intangible assets Going concern The projected revenue growth, projected operating cost growth The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to and discount rates applied to cash flow projections, as affect its future development, performance and position are set out in disclosed in note 13. the Business Review on pages 2 to 19.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are also described in the b Pension assumptions Business Review.
In addition, note 35 to the Financial Statements The mortality assumptions, expected rates of return, discount includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing rates, rates of salary increases and inflation increases, as its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its disclosed in note 24. financial instruments and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risks.
c Provisions The Group has considerable financial resources together with longOnerous contract provisions for premises are subject to term contracts with a number of clients across different geographic uncertainties over time, including market rent reviews and break areas and industries.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a options within the lease arrangements.
Details are disclosed in reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to note 23. continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
d F&C REIT put option liabilities Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in The fair value of the F&C REIT put option liabilities is based preparing these Financial Statements.
upon an external valuation of the F&C REIT business.
By its New or revised standards nature, the valuation is subject to a significant number of assumptions and judgements and could differ from any price The revisions to the standards below, which were effective during ultimately agreed between the parties if the put options were the year ended 31 December 2012, did not have any impact on the exercised.
Details of the key valuation assumptions used are accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group: outlined in note 27. a Amendments to IFRS: e Share-based payments IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendment The share-based payment expense in respect of the TRC IAS 12 Income Taxes Amendment Deferred Taxes: Recovery of Commutation arrangements, as detailed in notes 6 a iv and Underlying Assets 25 g, is dependent upon whether the underlying call options are exercised and, if exercised, the expense will vary according to a number of factors, including the level of earnings of the b Improvements to IFRS effective June 2012 : respective Investment Teams and the latest audited financial IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Clarification of the results of the F&C Group.
requirements for comparative information Parent Company Financial Statements f Deferred tax assets The quantum of deferred tax assets recognised, as detailed in The parent Company has continued to present individual Financial note 16, is based upon assumptions as to the future profitability Statements prepared on a UK GAAP basis as permitted by section of the underlying companies to which they relate.
395 1 of the Companies Act 2006, adopting the exemption of omitting the Profit and Loss Account and related notes conferred by 48 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies Summary of significant accounting policies exchange rate ruling at the reporting date, and any exchange differences arising are taken to the Income Statement.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of the Consolidated Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than intangible assets Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2012 arising on the acquisition of foreign operations, measured at and 31 December 2011. historical cost in a foreign currency, are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction and are not subsequently a Consolidation restated.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in i Subsidiaries a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate at the date Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has the power, the fair value was determined.
When fair value movements in directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies assets and liabilities are reflected in the Income Statement, the so as to obtain benefits from their activities.
Subsidiaries follow corresponding exchange movements are also recognised in the accounting policies consistent with those of the Group, unless Income Statement.
Similarly, when fair value movements in assets there is a requirement for the subsidiary to follow a different and liabilities are reflected directly in equity, the corresponding accounting treatment, in which case consolidation adjustments exchange movements except any relating to available for sale are made to align the treatment of such subsidiaries within the monetary assets are also recognised directly in equity.
The subsidiaries have coterminous reporting periods, with three exceptions.
ii Foreign operations The functional currency of foreign operations is predominantly The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the assets, the Euro.
liabilities, results and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and The assets and liabilities of, or relating to, foreign operations are losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group translated into Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the transactions are eliminated in preparing the Consolidated reporting date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations Financial Statements.
are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates approximating to the rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign NCI represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations subsidiaries not held by the Group and are presented separately into Sterling, including related intangible assets, are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement Income Statement and directly in the Groups Foreign Currency Translation Reserve within equity in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position FCTR, which is a separate component of equity, and reported in Statement of Financial Position, separately from parent the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in ii Business combinations which the foreign operations are disposed of.
IFRS 3 Revised relating to Business Combinations from c Revenue recognition 1 January 2010 Management fees, investment advisory fees and other revenue A business combination is the bringing together of separate generated from the Groups asset management activities are entities or businesses into one reporting entity.
The result is that recognised in the Income Statement over the period which one entity, the acquirer, obtains control of one or more entities or these investment management services are provided.
The acquisition date is the date on which the Initial fees received in advance, arising on open-ended funds, acquirer obtains control of the acquiree.
are taken to the Statement of Financial Position and released to The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the the Income Statement over the period of the asset management assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or service.
The Group enters into standard contractual terms for all assumed at the date of exchange.
Therefore, the period of provision of asset liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a management services is estimated based upon the Groups business combination are measured initially at their fair values at experience of the average holding periods of investors.
The excess of the consideration transferred average holding period is reassessed on an annual basis.
for the acquisition, plus any NCI, over the fair value of the The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number Groups share of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as of clients if the actual investment performance of clients assets goodwill.
Acquisition-related expenses are expensed in the exceeds defined benchmarks by an agreed level of Income Statement.
outperformance, generally in a set time period.
Performance fees are recognised when the quantum of the fee can be b Foreign currencies estimated reliably, which is when the performance period ends The Groups presentational currency is Sterling.
Each entity in when this occurs on or before the reporting date, or where there the Group determines its own functional currency, and amounts is a period of less than six months remaining to the end of the included in the financial statements of each entity are measured performance period and there is evidence at the reporting date in that functional currency.
which suggests that the current performance will be sustainable.
i Foreign currency transactions d Leases Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the All leases entered into by the Group are operating leases, being functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in rewards of ownership of the leased asset.
Rentals paid under foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 49 operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives are differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities recognised by the Group as a reduction in the rental expense, in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax basis allocated on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
used in the computation of taxable profit or loss, accounted for Accounting policy s Provisions discusses the recognition of using the reporting date liability method.
provisions on onerous property leases when the leased space Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to has ceased to be occupied by the Group.
apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively e Fee and commission expenses enacted at the reporting date.
Fee and commission expenses comprise two main elements Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable costs associated with gaining new asset management contracts temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to and subsequent commission paid to agents.
The costs the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available associated with gaining contracts are deferred and amortised against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised, over the estimated term of the contracts in line with the except: treatment of the associated initial fees received, while the subsequent renewal commission paid to agents is expensed as where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial the services are provided.
recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the f Exceptional income and costs time of the transaction affects neither the accounting nor Where the Group incurs significant non-recurring expenditure or taxable profit or loss: or earns significant non-recurring income in respect of items that in respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences arise outwith the Groups normal business activities and which associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, are sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure, then where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences such items are disclosed in the Income Statement as can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary exceptional items, either separately or collectively, depending on differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer g Finance revenue probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all Finance revenue comprises interest, dividends, investment or part of the asset to be recovered.
income, expected return on pension assets and net fair value gains through the Income Statement in respect of shareholder Any income tax expense or income in respect of taxable gains investments.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to or losses attributable to policyholders falls to be borne by or to receive payment is established.
Interest income is recognised in the benefit of the Groups unit-linked policyholders.
As a result, the Income Statement on an effective interest rate basis as it the Directors consider it appropriate to differentiate on the face accrues.
of the Income Statement between tax attributable to policyholders and tax attributable to shareholders.
h Finance costs Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, interest j Property, plant and equipment on pension liabilities, amortisation of loan issue costs and facility Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less fees, unwinding of discount on provisions and net fair value accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
losses through the Income Statement in respect of shareholder Expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised on investments.
Borrowing costs are recognised in the Income initial recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised Statement on an effective interest rate basis.
when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits associated with the expenditure which can be measured reliably.
i Income taxes All other expenditure is recognised in the Income Statement as The income tax expense or income disclosed on the face of the an expense as incurred.
Income Statement represents the aggregate of current tax and the movement in deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the Property, plant and equipment is depreciated so as to write off Income Statement for the period, except to the extent that it is the cost of assets, using the straight-line method, over their attributable to a gain or loss that is recognised directly in equity.
estimated useful lives, as follows: In such cases the gain or loss shown in equity is stated Leasehold improvements over 10 years separately from the attributable income tax, which is also Computer equipment over 3 years recognised directly in equity.
Office furniture & equipment over 3-5 years Current tax is the expected tax payable to, or receivable from, Motor vehicles over 3-4 years the taxation authorities on the taxable profit or loss for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Depreciation is recognised as an expense in the Income reporting date, and includes any adjustment to tax payable in Statement.
50 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is at each reporting date.
If an indication of impairment exists, the expensed as incurred.
assets are written down to their recoverable amount and the impairment is charged to the Income Statement in the period in l Impairment of intangible assets which it arises.
At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon exists, or when annual impairment testing is required, the Group disposal or when no further future economic benefits are makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cashof the asset calculated as the fair value less costs to sell is generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, included in the Income Statement in the year the asset is and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does derecognised.
not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying k Intangible assets amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset i Goodwill is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable Goodwill arising from a business combination is initially amount.
Any impairment arising is recognised in the Income measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business Statement.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash combination over the Groups interest in the fair value of the flows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following that reflects current market assessments of the time value of initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any money and the risks specific to the asset.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a Business combinations arising after 31 December 2009 are business combination is allocated to a cash-generating unit that accounted for under IFRS 3 Revised : Business Combinations.
is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Where the initial amount of goodwill can only be determined on Each unit to which the goodwill is so allocated represents the a provisional basis at the end of the financial reporting period, lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored adjustments are made to the amount of goodwill up to twelve for internal management purposes.
months from the date of acquisition to the extent that they relate Where intangible assets form part of a cash-generating unit and to revisions to the quantum of net assets acquired.
Any part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the adjustment to the initial consideration, including amounts which intangible assets associated with the operation disposed of are are conditional upon performance criteria, are recognised in the included in the carrying amount of the operation when Income Statement in the period in which the subsequent determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if m Financial instruments events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus value may be impaired.
directly attributable transaction costs, where investments are not classified as fair value through profit or loss.
ii Investment management contracts The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market recognition at cost.
bid prices mid price for OEICs at the close of business on the The measurement of intangible assets acquired in a business reporting date.
For investments where there is no active market, combination is recognised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
fair value is determined using valuation methodologies, as Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at initial described below.
fair value less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated Financial instruments are classified into the categories described impairment losses.
below: The useful lives of investment management contracts are finite i Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss and such contracts are amortised on a straight-line basis over include investments that are held for trading purposes or their estimated useful lives or average contractual term, with that have been specifically designated as at fair value amortisation being charged to the Income Statement.
The through profit or loss.
They are carried in the Statement of amortisation period is reviewed at each financial year end.
Financial Position at fair value and movements in fair value Details of estimated useful lives are shown in note 13. are taken to the Income Statement in the period in which they arise.
Interest and dividend income on these financial iii Software and licences instruments is recognised separately in finance revenue.
Separately purchased intangible assets have a finite life and are shown at cost less accumulated amortisation and any The Group has adopted trade date accounting for accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract Income Statement in equal annual instalments, based on the whose terms require delivery of the asset within the time following useful economic lives: frame established in the marketplace concerned.
Accordingly, such financial instruments are recognised on Software 3 years the date the Group commits to the purchase of the Licences over the contractual term 3-5 years ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 51 investments, and are derecognised on the date it commits amount at which a derivative could be exchanged in a to their sale.
transaction at the reporting date between willing parties.
The remaining financial liabilities are recognised at amortised The Group has adopted the Fair Value Option in IAS 39, cost using the effective interest rate after initial recognition.
which enables the liabilities in respect of the Groups unitlinked investment contracts to be matched to the fair value Expenses incurred in respect of raising capital on interestof the related assets which are solely attributable to the bearing loans and borrowings are amortised over the term investment contract policyholders, thus reflecting the of the loan on an effective interest rate basis.
These contractual entitlement of the policyholders.
Differences in expenses are offset against the loan amount.
fair values are taken to the Income Statement.
ii Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair Carried interest entitlement value in the Statement of Financial Position.
In respect of The Group has a number of investments which provide it with carried interest entitlement, which is typically linked to the unquoted instruments, or where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established by using investment performance of the underlying funds exceeding recognised valuation methodologies, in accordance with long-term hurdle rates.
In a number of instances a share of such International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation carry falls to the benefit of the individual founder members.
Where insufficient information exists to produce These carried interest investments are classified as fair value a valuation then the price of recent investments is used.
through profit or loss and any amounts payable to individual Alternative methodologies include using: recent arms length members are included within member distributions in the market transactions: reference to the current market value Income Statement and classified as a liability.
of another instrument which is substantially the same: or Separately, where the Group holds carried interest investments discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
which are not linked to investment vehicles managed by the For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and Group, then such investments are classified as available for sale.
enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or significant positive cash flows, fair value is determined using Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities the Price of a Recent Investment method.
Repayments Financial assets are treated as reductions to carrying value.
After an A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset, appropriate period, an assessment is made as to whether is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the the circumstances of the investment have changed such asset have expired.
that another valuation methodology is appropriate, and whether there is any evidence of deterioration or strong Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the defensible evidence of an increase in value.
In the absence of these indicators, fair value is determined to be that liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
reported at the previous reporting date.
Impairment of financial assets Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits The Group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial and or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Enterprise Value of the underlying business.
Assets carried at amortised cost Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans taken to the fair value reserve in equity until derecognition of and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the the asset, at which time the cumulative amount in this reserve is recognised in the Income Statement.
assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original iii Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the Income incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and Statement.
receivables are measured at amortised cost using the If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an recognised in the Income Statement when loans and event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any through the amortisation process.
subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the iv Other financial liabilities include the NCI put options which Income Statement to the extent that the carrying value of the are recognised at fair value through profit or loss.
asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
The NCI put options, over equity in majority-owned Available for sale financial assets subsidiaries, are recognised at fair value at the reporting If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising date.
Upon initial recognition the fair value of the put option the difference between its cost net of any principal payment is debited to equity.
Subsequent movements to the fair and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment value are reflected in the Income Statement.
Fair value is the loss previously recognised in the Income Statement, is transferred from equity to the Income Statement.
Reversals in 52 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies respect of equity instruments classified as available for sale are iii Profit entitlement of members of Limited Liability not recognised in the Income Statement.
Reversals of Partnerships impairment losses on debt instruments are taken through the Where a member of a Limited Liability Partnership LLP has an Income Statement if the increase in fair value of the instrument automatic entitlement to distributions of partnership profits in can be objectively related to an event occurring after the respect of their services, an expense Distributions to members impairment loss was recognised in the Income Statement.
of LLPs and a liability Liabilities to members of LLPs are recognised as their services are rendered during an n Cash and cash equivalents accounting period.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid iv Pension obligations investments in money market instruments with original maturity Defined benefit schemes dates of three months or less.
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension o Investment contracts arrangements.
These schemes provide benefits based on final The Group sells unit-linked pension investment contracts pensionable salary.
The assets of the funded schemes are held through its insurance entity, F&C Managed Pension Funds in separate trustee-administered funds.
These unit-linked contracts involve both the The pension liability recognised in the Statement of Financial transfer of a financial instrument and the provision of investment Position is the present obligation of the employer, which is the management services.
The financial instrument component is estimated present value of future benefits that employees have classified as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss.
earned in return for their services in the current and prior years, The financial liability is measured using a valuation technique less the value of the plan assets in the schemes.
The discount based on the carrying value of the assets and liabilities that are rate applied to the employees benefits is the appropriate AA held to back the contract.
corporate bond yield at the reporting date.
A qualified actuary Unit-linked policyholder assets held by MPF and related performs the calculation annually using the projected unit credit policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value, with changes in method.
The pension costs of the schemes in the Income fair value taken to profit or loss.
Statement are analysed into: Amounts received from and paid to investors under these current service cost, which is the actuarially calculated contracts are accounted for as deposits received or paid, and present value of the benefits earned by the active therefore not recorded in the Income Statement.
At the reporting employees in each period: date the value of these contracts is stated at an amount equal past service costs, which relate to employee service in prior to the fair value of the net assets held to match the contractual periods, and arise as a result of the introduction of, or obligations.
improvement to, retirement benefits in the current period.
These are recognised in the Income Statement on a p Insurance contract liabilities straight-line basis over the period in which the increase in Insurance contract liabilities are measured in accordance with benefits vests: actuarial principles and guidance.
Any change in the value of the liability is taken to Movement in fair value of unit-linked settlements or curtailments recognised in the Income liabilities in the Income Statement.
Where these liabilities are Statement to the extent that they are not allowed for in the reinsured, the element of the risk reinsured is valued on the actuarial assumptions.
Gains or losses on settlements or same basis as the related liability and is included as an asset in curtailments are recognised at the date on which there is a the Statement of Financial Position.
Changes in the value of the demonstrable commitment to making a significant reduction asset are taken to the Income Statement.
Amounts recoverable in the number of employees covered by the plan or an under reinsurance contracts are assessed for impairment at amendment to the terms of the plan: each reporting date.
the expected return on pension assets recognised within Finance revenue: and q Employee and member benefits i Short-term employee benefits the interest on pension obligations recognised in Finance Short-term employee benefits are recognised as an costs.
undiscounted expense and liability when the employee has The actuarial gains and losses, which arise from any new rendered services during an accounting period.
Short-term valuation and from updating the previous actuarial valuation to compensated absences are recognised, in the case of reflect conditions at the reporting date, are taken in full to the accumulating compensated absences, when the employees Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period.
render service that increases their entitlement to future compensated absences or, in the case of non-accumulating Defined contribution schemes compensated absences, when the absences occur.
Contributions made to these schemes are charged to the Income Statement as they become payable in accordance with ii Profit-sharing and bonus payments the rules of the scheme.
These are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation to make such payments as a result of v Other long-term employee benefits past events and a reliable estimate of the obligation can Other long-term employee benefits are recognised at the be made.
discounted present value of the obligation at the reporting date.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 53 The benefit is determined using actuarial techniques to estimate expense charge is made whether market-based awards the amount of benefit employees have earned for their services ultimately vest or not.
IFRS 2: Share-based Payment makes a distinction between awards settled in equity and those settled in cash.
Equity-settled vi Termination benefits awards are charged to the Income Statement with a Termination benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense corresponding credit to equity.
Cash-settled awards are charged when the Group is committed to the termination of employment to the Income Statement with a corresponding credit to before the normal retirement date.
The estimated fair value of cash-settled awards is retermination benefits arises when the Group has initiated detailed measured at each reporting date until the payments are plans which cannot realistically be withdrawn.
Awards to employees treated as good leavers or employees r Share-based payments who cancel their savings contracts under the Share Save The Group operates a number of share scheme arrangements Scheme vest immediately and the remaining full expense of the which require to be accounted for as share-based payments.
awards is charged to the Income Statement at that time.
Good All grants of shares, share options or other share-based leavers include retirees and involuntary redundancies.
instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 have The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as been recognised as an expense.
Where applicable, the fair additional share dilution in the computation of diluted EPS.
values of share-based payment awards are measured using a valuation model applicable to the terms of the awards Black s Provisions Scholes, Binomial or Monte Carlo simulation.
The fair value is A provision is recognised in the Statement of Financial Position measured by an independent external valuer at the date the when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result award is granted and the expense is spread over the period of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is exercise the awards, known as the vesting period.
Where material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected options exist for awards to vest on more than one date, the future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market expense is initially spread over the period to the earliest possible assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised in the Income the risks specific to the liability.
No provision is established where Statement is equal to the estimated fair value of the award a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
multiplied by the number of awards expected to vest.
Vesting of awards typically depends upon meeting defined performance Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be recovered criteria such as underlying earnings per share EPS targets from external parties, the recovery is recognised as a separate asset and or share price return targets or continued employment.
but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The fair value of share-based payment awards, where it is not Where the Group has obligations under property leases and considered possible to estimate reliably the fair value of these where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the awards at the grant date, is determined by measurement of the business, full provision is made for future net outstanding equity instruments at intrinsic value.
The intrinsic value is spread liabilities under such leases after taking into account the effect of over the vesting period.
Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon meeting market-related and or non-market related t Share capital performance conditions.
The type of vesting criteria affects the When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial calculation of the expense charged to the Income Statement liability of the Company or Group is presented as a liability in the and subsequent adjustments, as follows: Statement of Financial Position, measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until i Non-market related conditions are performance criteria not extinguished on conversion or redemption.
directly linked to Company share price targets, such as EPS targets and or continued employment.
The probability of The remainder of the issue proceeds is allocated to the equity meeting non-market conditions is incorporated into the component and included in shareholders equity, net of expense charge via the estimate of the number of awards transaction costs.
The total cumulative expense is reassessed at each reporting date and is ultimately adjusted Ordinary Share capital to reflect the actual number of awards which vest.
When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of Therefore, if no awards vest, no cumulative expense charge consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are is ultimately recognised.
recognised in the own share reserve included within retained earnings and are classified as deductions in equity.
The ii Market-related conditions are performance criteria linked to Companys dealings in its own shares are reflected through equity.
The probability of meeting market conditions is incorporated into the calculation of the Dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date of fair value of the award.
Should the market-based payment, or if subject to approval, the date approved by the performance condition not ultimately be met, no trueshareholders.
up down adjustment is made to reflect this.
Therefore, an 54 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies u Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs earnings at cost.
Consideration received for such shares is also recognised in retained earnings.
No gain or loss is recognised in The Group has several EBTs which own shares in the Company and other investments to enable it to satisfy certain future the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or settlements of share-based awards.
The assets of the EBTs, cancellation of equity shares.
Other investments held by EBTs which relate to unvested awards, are consolidated into the are recognised as assets in the Statement of Financial Position.
Groups results, with these own shares included within retained v New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the following standards, relevant to the Group, which have not yet been applied and have an effective date after the date of these Financial Statements: Effective for accounting periods International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS beginning on or after Endorsed by the European Union and available for early adoption: IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income 1 July 2012 IFRS 7 Amendment Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 IAS 16 Improvement Property, Plant and Equipment 1 January 2013 IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits 1 January 2013 IAS 32 Improvement Financial Instruments: Presentation 1 January 2013 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014 IAS 27 Revised Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2014 IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2014 IAS 32 Amendment Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014 Not yet endorsed by the European Union: Improvements to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 June 2012 Transition Guidance 1 January 2013 Improvements to IFRSs 2009 2011 May 2012 Improvements to IFRS 1, IAS 1, IAS 16, IAS 32 and IAS 34 1 January 2013 Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 1 January 2014 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments issued in 2009 and revised in 2010 1 January 2015 Impact of new accounting standards The list of new standards and interpretations above are effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The revised standard which will have a numeric impact on the 2013 Financial Statements is IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits.
IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits contains changes in recognition and measurement of employee benefits.
One of the changes in respect of defined benefit pension arrangements is that a net interest cost will replace the current interest cost and expected return on assets.
The discount rate will be used to calculate the net interest cost instead of a separate assumption for asset returns.
In addition, administrative expenses will be shown separately and not within the net interest cost.
Ongoing, the quantum of the net interest cost will depend on the size of the defined benefit deficit and the discount rate.
The 2012 Consolidated Income Statement will be restated upon adoption of the revised standard at 1 January 2013.
The impact on the 2012 Income Statement is expected to result in the following amendments to loss before tax: Operating expenses to increase by 0.1m, finance revenue to reduce by 10.7m, finance costs to reduce by 10.2m resulting in an overall increase in the loss before tax of 0.6m.
It is not expected that this new standard will have a material impact to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at either 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2012.
Other standards effective in 2013, which will impact the Group include: IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Items in Other Comprehensive Income OCI is a presentational change which will require the items in OCI to be split between those which could be recycled to the Income Statement and those which cannot.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement clarifies how fair value should be measured.
This is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups current measurement of fair values.
The Directors are investigating the impact of the other new and revised standards to be implemented in 2014 and beyond.
It is anticipated that, at a minimum, additional disclosures will the required.
The Group intends to adopt the standards in the reporting period in which they become effective.
