138 | SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION | Notice To US Shareholders Certain PFIC Considerations Shareholders should consult their own tax advisors as to the tax US Shareholders are particularly urged to consult their own Tax considerations applicable to them relating to the purchase, Advisors regarding the US tax considerations relating to an ownership and disposition of our ordinary shares the Shares, investment in a company that may be or may become a PFIC, including the applicability of US Federal state and local tax laws and including the availability and consequences of elections that may be non-US tax laws.
This discussion does not address tax available to mitigate the adverse Federal income tax consequences considerations applicable to US Shareholders other than the passive of owning or disposing of PFIC shares.
In that regard, US foreign investment company rules.
Shareholders should be aware that the Company does not intend to satisfy the record keeping and other requirements that would permit F&C Asset Management plc the Company and certain of its a US Shareholder to make a qualified electing fund QEF election subsidiaries may be treated as passive foreign investment with respect to the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
companies each, a PFIC within the meaning of section 1297 of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended the Code for Each taxpayer is hereby notified that: a any discussion of US US Federal income tax purposes.
Federal tax issues herein is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used by the taxpayer, for the purpose of avoiding Treatment of the Company or any of its subsidiaries as a PFIC could penalties that may be imposed on the taxpayer under US Federal result in adverse tax consequences for US Shareholders.
tax law: b any such discussion is written to support the promotion A foreign corporation generally will be treated as a PFIC in any year or marketing of the transactions or matters addressed herein: and in which either 75 per cent or more of its gross income constitutes c the taxpayer should seek advice based on its particular passive income or at least 50 per cent of the value of its assets is circumstances from an independent tax advisor.
attributable to assets which produce or are held for the production of passive income.
In applying these tests, a non-US corporation that directly or indirectly owns at least 25 per cent, by value, of the stock of another corporation is treated as if it held directly its proportionate share of the other corporations assets and received directly its proportionate share of the other corporations income.
Whether a non-US company is a PFIC is determined annually, and the status of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, could change depending among other things upon the changes in the composition of its gross receipts and assets, and the nature of its business.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 139 Corporate Information Directors Principal Banker Edward Bramson, Chairman The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Richard Wilson, Chief Executive 142-144 Princes Street Keith Bedell-Pearce, Senior Independent Non-executive Edinburgh EH2 4EQ Ian Brindle, Non-executive o Keith Jones, Non-executive Stockbrokers David Logan, Chief Financial Officer J. P. Morgan Cazenove o Jeff Medlock, Non-executive 10 Aldermanbury Derham ONeill, Non-executive London EC2V 7RF o Keith Percy, Non-executive o Kieran Poynter, Non-executive Jeffries Hoare Govett Vintners Place Member of Nomination Committee 68 Upper Thames Street Member of Remuneration Committee London EC4V 3BJ Member of Audit & Compliance Committee o Member of the Risk Committee HSBC Bank plc 8 Canada Square Head Office Canary Wharf Exchange House London E14 5HQ Primrose Street London EC2A 2NY Auditor Telephone 020 7628 8000 KPMG Audit Plc Facsimile 020 7628 8188 Saltire Court Email: enquiries@fandc.
com 20 Castle Terrace Edinburgh EH1 2EG Secretary and Registered Office W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA Registrar and Transfer Office 80 George Street Equiniti Limited Edinburgh EH2 3BU 34 South Gyle Crescent Telephone 0131 718 1000 South Gyle Business Park Facsimile 0131 225 2375 Edinburgh EH12 9EB Solicitors Corporate information Norton Rose LLP F&C Asset Management plc 3 More London Riverside Registered in Scotland London SE1 2AQ Company Registration Number SC73508 Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP Website 1 Exchange Crescent Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website Conference Square www.
com Edinburgh EH3 8UL Shareholder services available from Equiniti Limited Shareview The Companys registrar, Equiniti, offers a Shareview service enabling shareholders to have more control over their shares and other investments: Direct access to data held on the share register including recent share movements and dividend details.
The ability to change address details or dividend payment instructions online.
To sign up for Shareview, shareholders need the shareholder reference printed on the proxy form or dividend stationery, and there is no charge to register.
On registration, shareholders can select their preferred format post or e-mail for shareholder communications.
Shareholders selecting e-mail as their mailing preference will be sent shareholder communications, such as proxy forms and notice of Company results by e-mail instead of post, as long as this option is available.
Shareholders selecting post as their preference will be sent paper documents as usual.
Details of software and equipment requirements are given on the website, www.
co. uk Voting Online In accordance with good governance practice, the Company is offering shareholders use of an online voting service, sharevote, offered by Equiniti, at www.
Shareholders can use this service to vote or appoint a proxy online.
The same voting deadline 11 a. m. UK time on 8 May 2013 applies as for the Personalised Voting Form to vote or appoint a proxy by post to vote.
Shareholders need to use the unique personal identification details Reference Number, Card ID and Account Number that are printed on the Personalised Voting Form to use this service.
F&C Asset Management plc Head Office: Exchange House Primrose Street London EC2A 2NY Telephone: 020 7628 8000 Email: enquiries@fandc.
