122 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Company Accounting Policies Basis of preparation contribution reserve in equity.
The Company recharges certain The separate Financial Statements of the Company are presented subsidiaries when it satisfies these equity-settled awards with its as required by the Companies Act and are prepared under the own shares.
historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of other investments, and in accordance with applicable accounting Tangible fixed assets standards in the United Kingdom.
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The principal accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently for the years ended 31 December 2012 and Expenditure on tangible fixed assets is capitalised on initial 31 December 2011. recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits associated with The Companys Financial Statements are presented in millions of the expenditure which can be measured reliably.
All other pounds Sterling rounded to one decimal place, the Companys expenditure is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as an functional and presentational currency.
In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a Tangible fixed assets are depreciated, using the straight-line separate Profit and Loss Account for the Company is not presented.
method, to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29: lives, as follows: Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and has not Leasehold improvements 10 years disclosed the information required by that standard because the Office furniture & equipment 3-5 years Company is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements which are publicly available and include disclosures given under Computer equipment 3 years IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date.
If an indication of impairment exists, the assets Going concern are written down to their recoverable amount and the impairment is The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to charged to the Profit and Loss Account in the year in which it arises.
affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 2 to 19.
The financial position of the Financial instruments Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are also described in the When financial instruments are recognised initially they are Business Review.
In addition, note 35 to the Consolidated Financial measured at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Statements on pages 101 to 104 includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised management objectives: details of its financial instruments and its financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risks.
prices mid-price for Open Ended Investment Companies at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in Financial instruments are classified into the categories described operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they below: continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these i Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value in the Financial Statements.
In respect of unquoted instruments, or where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is Turnover established by using recognised valuation methodologies, in Turnover comprises fees for secretarial services provided to accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Investment Trusts, and shared services and administration services Capital Valuation Guidelines.
Fees are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account over the period for which these services are For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and provided.
enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or significant positive cash flows, fair value is determined using the Price of a Recent Investment method.
Repayments are Dividend recognition treated as reductions to carrying value.
After an appropriate Dividends receivable and dividends payable are recognised only period, an assessment is made as to whether the when they have been declared and approved or at the date of circumstances of the investment have changed such that payment for interim dividends.
another valuation methodology is appropriate or there is any evidence of deterioration or strong defensible evidence of an Investments in subsidiaries increase in value.
In the absence of these indicators, fair value Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less accumulated is determined to be that reported at the previous balance impairment losses.
The cost includes the uplift arising from the sheet date.
equity-settled share-based payments calculated in accordance with FRS 20: Share-based Payment, where no cash contributions are made by the subsidiaries.
The uplift is credited to a capital ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 123 Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits Assets carried at amortised cost and or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an If there is objective evidence that an impairment in loans and Enterprise Value of the underlying business.
receivables carried at amortised cost has occurred, the amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and assets carrying amount and the expected recoverable amount.
The foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are taken carrying amount of the asset would be reduced and the amount of to the fair value reserve in equity until derecognition of the the loss recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
asset, at which time the cumulative amount in this reserve is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
The following If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss assets are classified as available for sale: decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously Fixed assets recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of Other investments an impairment loss is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account to ii Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss include the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its investments which have been specifically designated as at fair amortised cost at the reversal date.
value through profit or loss.
These are carried in the Balance Sheet at fair value and movements in fair value are taken to Available for sale financial assets the Profit and Loss Account in the period in which they arise.
If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the The following assets are classified as financial instruments at difference between its cost net of any principal payment and fair value through profit or loss: amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the Profit and Loss Account, is transferred Fixed assets from reserves to the Profit and Loss Account.
Reversals in respect Other investments of equity instruments classified as available for sale are not iii Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Reversals of impairment fair value plus any incremental costs incurred.
Subsequent to losses on debt instruments are taken through the Profit and Loss initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at Account, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss and losses are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account was recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
when loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
The following assets Deferred taxation and liabilities are classified as loans and receivables: Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where Current assets: transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in Debtors an obligation to pay less or receive more tax, with the following Cash and short-term deposits exceptions: iv Financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation effective interest rate method after initial recognition.
The and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, or gains on following liabilities are classified as financial liabilities: disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into Creditors amounts falling due within one year replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year sheet date, there is a commitment to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the The Company has adopted trade date accounting for basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract whose more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into terms require delivery of the assets within the timeframe replacement assets and charged to tax only when the established in the marketplace concerned.
Accordingly, such replacement assets are sold: financial instruments are recognised on the date the Company commits to the purchase of the investments, and are Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on derecognised on the date it commits to their sale.
remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities have been accrued as receivable: and Financial assets Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset, is Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing have expired.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates Financial liabilities that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively liability is either discharged, cancelled or expires.
enacted at the balance sheet date.
Impairment of financial assets Operating leases The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Profit and financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
124 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Company Accounting Policies Lease incentives are recognised by the Company as a reduction of determined.
When fair value movements in assets and liabilities are the rental expense, allocated on a straight-line basis, over the reflected in the Profit and Loss Account, the corresponding shorter of the lease term and a period ending on a date from which exchange movements are also recognised in the Profit and Loss it is expected the prevailing market rental will be payable.
Conversely, when fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected directly in equity, the corresponding exchange movements are also recognised directly in equity.
Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs UITF 38 requires that own shares acquired through an EBT be deducted in arriving at shareholders funds until they vest Share-based payments unconditionally to the employees.
Consideration paid and received The Company operates a variable NCI incentive which is required to for the purchase or sale of these shares is included in shareholders be accounted for as a share-based payment.
funds and no gain or loss is recognised.
Other assets and liabilities The fair value of share-based payment awards, where it is not of the EBTs are recognised as assets and liabilities of the Company.
considered possible to estimate reliably the fair value of these Ordinary Shares of the Company are held by EBTs in order to satisfy awards at the grant date, is determined by measurement of the a number of F&C Group share-based payment plans and future equity instruments at intrinsic value.
The fair value is measured by an exercises of options and awards to employees of subsidiary independent external valuer at each reporting date.
The cost relating to the share-based payment plans is value is spread over the vesting period.
recognised in the subsidiary companies which employ the staff in Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon receipt of awards and the Company recognises any fresh issue of meeting non-market related performance conditions.
The type of shares or re-issue of own shares when such a transaction occurs.
vesting criteria affects the calculation of the expense charged to the These shares are included in the Financial Statements of the Profit and Loss Account and subsequent adjustments, as nonCompany as a deduction from shareholders funds.
market related conditions are performance criteria such as earnings targets and or service requirements.
The probability of meeting nonProvisions market conditions is incorporated into the expense charge via the A provision is recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Company estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The total has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and cumulative expense is ultimately adjusted to reflect the actual it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to number of awards which vest.
Therefore, if no awards vest, no settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are cumulative expense is ultimately recognised.
determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a preFRS 20: Share-based Payment makes a distinction between awards tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of settled in equity and those settled in cash.
Equity-settled awards are money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
No charged to the Profit and Loss Account with a corresponding credit provision is established where a reliable estimate of the obligation to equity.
Cash-settled awards are charged to the Profit and Loss cannot be made.
Account with a corresponding credit to liabilities.
The estimated fair Where the Company expects some or all of a provision to be value of cash-settled awards is re-measured at each reporting date reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset until the payments are ultimately settled.
but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Where the Company has obligations under property leases and Ordinary Share capital where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the When Ordinary Shares are issued the proceeds on issue are business, full provision is made for future net outstanding liabilities allocated to the equity component and included in shareholders under such leases after taking into account the effect of any funds, net of transaction costs.
When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are Related party disclosures recognised in the own share reserve included within retained FRS 8: Related Party Disclosures requires disclosure of the details of earnings and are classified as deductions in equity.
Dealings in own material transactions between the reporting entity and related shares are reflected through equity.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date of FRS 8 not to disclose transactions between F&C Group companies payment or, if subject to approval, the date approved by the which eliminate on consolidation.
Foreign currencies Cash flow statement Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions in FRS 1 currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
revised : Cash Flow Statements and has elected not to prepare a Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at Cash Flow Statement as it is included within the Consolidated Cash the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at Flow Statement in the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C the balance sheet date, and any exchange differences arising are Asset Management plc.
taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction and are not subsequently restated.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate at the date the fair value was
