Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so Fidelity China Special Situations PLC will be held at Merchant that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB, on agreements before the expiry of this authority which would 24 July 2012 at 11.00 am for the following purposes: or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not ORDINARY BUSINESS expired.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 12 set out above, the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to Sections 570-573 of the Act to allot equity securities as 2.
To approve the final dividend.
defined in Section 560 of the Act pursuant to the authority given by the said resolution 1 2 as if Section 561 of the Act 3.
To re-elect John Owen as a Director.
did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: 4.
To re-elect Nicholas Bull as a Director.
a t o the allotment of equity securities in connection with a 5.
To re-elect David Causer as a Director.
rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of relevant equity securities where the equity securities attributable 6.
To re-elect Hon Peter Pleydell-Bouverie as a Director.
respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be 7.
To elect Elisabeth Scott as a Director.
to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the 8.
To elect Andrew Wells as a Director.
rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the 9.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to ended 31 March 2012. fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or 10.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor of the any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise : Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which financial statements are laid before b t o the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue the Company.
of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 657,879 approximately 10% of the aggregate nominal 1 1.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors amount of the issued share capital of the Company as at remuneration.
12 June 2012 : and SPECIAL BUSINESS c t o the allotment of equity securities at a price of not less Resolutions 1 2 and 1 3 will, if approved, authorise the Directors to than the net asset value per share.
allot a limited number of the currently unissued Ordinary Shares for cash without first offering such shares to existing ordinary And this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The limit set General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after the by the Board is 10% of the number of Ordinary Shares of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that this Company in issue on 12 June 201 2.
The Directors will only issue authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements new Ordinary Shares under this authority to take advantage of before the expiry of this authority, and the Directors may allot opportunities in the market as they arise and only if they believe equity securities in relation to such an offer or agreement as if the it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so.
authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions Resolution 14 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew which will be proposed, resolution 1 2 as an ordinary resolution the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the number and resolution 1 3 as a special resolution: of Ordinary Shares in issue on 12 June 2012 for cancellation.
Purchases of Ordinary Shares will be at the discretion of the Board 1 2.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of light of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers in the market at prices below the prevailing Net Asset Value per of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that share, thereby resulting in an increased Net Asset Value per share.
section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 657,879 approximately 10% of the aggregate nominal amount of the 1 4.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and issued share capital of the Company as at 12 June 2012 unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 693 such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 55 Notice of Meeting Notes: of Ordinary Shares of 1 penny each in the capital of the Company the shares provided that: 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and to a the maximum number of shar es hereby authorised to be speak and vote instead of him.
A member may appoint more than purchased shall be 98,616,100 : one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member b the minimum pr ice which may be paid for a share is of the Company.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the Registrars c the maximum pr ice which may be paid for a share is at the address on the form to arrive not later than 11.00am on 22 July an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle 2012.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from subsequently attending the meeting and voting in market quotations for a share taken from the London person if they so wish.
Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is 3.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power purchased: of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a copy of any such authority certified notarially or in some other way approved by the Directors, must be deposited with the Companys Registrars, d the author ity hereby conferred shall expire at the Capita Registrars, PO Box 25, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR not less conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned Company unless such authority is renewed prior to such meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it is time: and demanded, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
e the Com pany may make a contract to purchase shares 4.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders the under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the partly after the expiration of such authority and may make order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be By Order of the Board received by the issuers agent RA10 by 11.00am on 20 July 2012.
FIL Investments International For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as Secretary determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST 20 June 2012 Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy Registered office: appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by Beech Gate other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored Millfield Lane members and those CREST Members who have appointed voting Lower Kingswood service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting Tadworth service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and systems Surrey KT20 6RP timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In any case your proxy form must be received by the Companys Registrars no later than 11.00am on 20 July 2012.
All members are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and ask questions.
The right to vote at the meeting will be determined by reference to the Register of Members as at 11.00am on 20 July 2012.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in note 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The right described in that paragraph can only be exercised by members of the Company.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 56 Notice of Meeting 8.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or discretion as to how the votes which are the subject of those proxies otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or are cast and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic proxies, when added to the interests in the Companys securities form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or already held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such the matter to be included in the business of the meeting, must be number of voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation under authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the by the Company not later than 12 June 2012, being the date six necessary notifications to the Company and the Financial Services clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be Authority.
As a result, any member holding three per cent or more included in the business of the meeting only must be accompanied of the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting rights 15.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
and so would otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, need not make separate 16.
A copy of this notice and other information required by Section 311A notification to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the Companys website at www.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that to be entitled to attend Registered office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
determining the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the register of members by 6.00pm on 20 July 2012.
If the meeting is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the register of members at 6.00pm on the day two days before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
As at 12 June 2012 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of 657,879,480 Ordinary Shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 12 June 2012 was 657,879,480.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint understand that by attending the meeting they are expressly agreeing that they are willing to receive any communications, including communications relating to the Companys securities, made at the meeting.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting or any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which the Annual Report and Financial Statements were laid.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in such business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business of the meeting unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 57 Glossary to the Annual Report AIC the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code the Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance, as amended from time to time American Depository Receipt or ADR a negotiable certificate issued by a US Bank representing a specified number of shares in a foreign stock that is traded on a US Exchange Articles of Association the articles of association of the Company, as amended from time to time Auditor Grant Thornton UK LLP or such other auditor as the Company may appoint from time to time Benchmark Morgan Stanley China Index MSCI China Index Board of Directors the Board of Directors of the Company or any duly constituted Committee thereof Call and Put options call or put options may be used to gain or reduce exposure to the underlying asset on a conditional basis: i. e. the purchase of a call option provides exposure to the upside potential of an underlying stock, with the downside risk being limited to the premium paid Capita or Capita Registrars a trading name for Capita Registrars Limited, the Companys Registrars Cenkos Securities Cenkos Securities plc, the Companys broker China or PRC the Peoples Republic of China excluding Taiwan, Hong Kong and the Macau Special Administrative Region of the PRC China A Shares Shares traded on the Chinese Stock Exchanges in Chinese renminbi.
Foreign investors had historically been unable to participate in the China A Share market.
However, following Chinas introduction of the QFII program in 2002, a legal framework has been provided for licensed QFIIs to invest in China A Shares on the Chinese Stock Exchanges and certain other securities previously not eligible for investment by foreign investors China B Shares Shares traded on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shanghai Stock Exchange in Hong Kong dollars and US dollars, respectively.
China B Shares were originally intended to be available only to foreign individual and institutional investors.
However, since February 2001, China B Shares have been available to domestic individual investors who trade through legal foreign currency accounts China H Shares Shares in companies incorporated in the PRC which are listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
China H Shares are available to non-Chinese investors and are traded in Hong Kong dollars on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Chinese Stock Exchanges the Shanghai Stock Exchange, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and any other stock exchange located within the PRC from time to time Collateral assets provided as security Company Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Contract For Difference or CFD a contract between an investor i. e. the Company and an investment bank at the end of which the parties exchange the difference between the opening and closing prices of a specified financial instrument.
The investor may reason that the asset price will rise, by buying long position or fall, by selling short position.
A Contract For Difference does not involve buying or selling the underlying asset, only agreeing to receive or pay the movement in its price and or total returns, including dividend receipts and payments.
A Contract For Difference only requires a small deposit margin on trades Custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. London branch Custody Agreement the agreement between the Custodian and the Company regarding the custody of the assets of the Company dated 25 February 2010 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 58 Glossary to the Annual Report Directors Directors of the Company listed in the section headed Corporate Information, and Director shall mean any one of them Debt Bank borrowings Derivatives financial instruments whose value is derived from the value of an underlying asset or other financial instruments such as stocks, bonds, currency exchange rates, real estate and commodities, or market benchmarks such as interest rates.
The main categories of derivatives are Contracts For Difference, futures, options and swaps Disclosure and Transparency Rules the disclosure rules made by the UK Listing Authority under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended from time to time Equity Linked Notes or ELN debt instruments whose return on investment is linked to specific equities or equity markets.
The return on equity linked notes may be determined by an equity index, a basket of equities, or single equities Fair Value represents the carrying value on the Balance Sheet and it is also the difference between settlement price and the underlying value of the security FIL FIL Limited and each of its subsidiaries FIL Limited FIL Limited incorporated in Bermuda, the ultimate parent company of the FIL Group of companies Fidelity FIL Investments International Form of Proxy the form of proxy for use by shareholders in respect of the Annual General Meeting Forward Future Contract a forward is an agreement to buy or sell a currency, commodity or other asset at a specified future date and at a predetermined price.
It is not standardised and is not traded on organised exchanges.
A future is an agreement to buy or sell a stated amount of a security, currency or commodity at a specific future date and at a pre-agreed price FRC Financial Reporting Council Gearing debt either through bank borrowings or through derivatives including CFDs Gross Asset Exposure the value of the portfolio to which the investor i. e. the Company is exposed, whether through direct or indirect investment including the economic value of the exposure in the underlying asset of the derivatives, but excluding forward currency contracts Hedging a hedge position will demonstrate risk reduction qualities by delivering short exposure to an asset which has regional congruence and a correlation of at least 80% to long exposures in the Companys portfolio.
It therefore distinguishes itself from a short which is a position not opened with the objective of reducing the long exposure in the portfolio.
Qualifying hedge exposures do not count towards the short exposure limits.
For the purposes of calculating Gross Asset Exposure the exposure attributed to the hedge positions will be deducted from the exposure of the corresponding long positions IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards Index linked securities debt instruments whose return on investment is linked to changes in interest rates, stock exchanges, or other price indices Investment Manager or Manager FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited Investment Managers or Managers together, the Investment Manager and the Unlisted Investment Manager KOSPI The Korea Composite Stock Price Index.
Index of all common shares traded on the Stock Market Division, previously known as the Korea Stock Exchange Management Agreement the agreement between FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited and the Company regarding the management of the Companys investments dated 25 February 2010 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 59 Glossary to the Annual Report Management Agreements together the Management Agreement and the Unlisted Management Agreement Management Fee the annual management fee which is calculated as 1.5% of NAV Marked-to-market assigning a value based on the current fair market price Money market instruments short-term debt instruments that provide the unconditional right to receive a stated, fixed sum of money on a specified date.
Money market instruments include treasury bills, bonds, commercial and financial paper, bankers acceptances, negotiable certificates of deposit and short-term notes issued under note issuance facilities MSCI China Index the benchmark of the investment performance of the Company is the M organ Stanley China Index, UK sterling equivalent Net Asset Value or NAV per share the NAV is calculated as shareholders funds divided by the number of shares in issue Options or options contract options provide the right to acquire or sell instruments at an agreed price at an agreed date Ordinary Shares ordinary shares of nominal value of 1 penny each in the capital of the Company and Ordinary Share means any one of them Performance Fee the Investment Managers are entitled to an annual Performance Fee of 15% of any change in NAV attributable to performance which is more than 2% above the returns on the MSCI China Index, subject to a maximum Performance Fee payable in any year equal to 1.5% of the arithmetic mean of the value of assets with the valuation calculated at the end of each month during the year Portfolio Manager Anthony Bolton Pre-emption rights Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that a company which offers equity securities must first make an offer of those securities, on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to the nominal value held by existing shareholders Prospectus the Prospectus of the Company dated 7 January 2011 QFII a Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor.
The Investment Manager is a QFII and as such has been granted a QFII licence by the China Securities Regulatory Commission CSRC which permits the Company to invest in China A Shares through the Investment Manager and has received an allocation of quota for onshore investment from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC SAFE Red Chips Red Chip is the term used to describe companies incorporated outside China but which are based in mainland China.
Red Chips are listed on, and are required to observe the filing and reporting requirements of, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Red Chips typically have a significant portion of their business interests located in mainland China and many are owned, either directly or indirectly, by organisations or enterprises controlled by the Chinese state, provinces or municipalities Registrar Capita Registrars Renminbi currency of the PRC Secretarial Agreement the agreement between the Secretary and the Company regarding the provision of company secretarial and administrative services dated 25 February 2010 Secretary FIL Investments International Shareholders funds the value of the Companys assets less all its liabilities as shown in the balance sheet Short stock exposure the position of an investor that has sold a security or derivative that it did not own but is now committed to eventually purchase to satisfy its obligation to sell, being a strategy used to capitalise on an expected decline in the securitys or derivatives price SIPP Self Invested Personal Pension Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 60 Glossary to the Annual Report SORP Statement of Recommended Practice UCITS Directive the European Council Directive of 20 December 1985 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities UCITS No 85 611 EEC as amended Unlisted Investment Manager FIL Investments International Unlisted Management Agreement the Agreement between FIL Investments International and the Company regarding the management of the Companys unlisted investments Unlisted securities securities which are not listed on a regulated stock exchange Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 61 Investing in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC The information on the following pages is provided by Fidelity and should not be seen as a recommendation by the Board of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC.
Fidelity offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the Holding shares within the Share Plan allows you to reinvest your way that is best for you.
As Fidelity China Special Situations PLC dividends and make further investments without having to pay is a company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also brokerage fees.
You will also be able to set up a monthly savings buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
plan and receive statements and valuations twice a year.
Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or holding INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan other You may invest in the Companys shares through the Fidelity ISA than stamp duty of 0.5%, which is currently payable on all share Individual Savings Account.
A Fidelity ISA can be an excellent purchases.
However, if you invest through a Financial Adviser, way to get more from your investment, because you will not have there may be an initial charge of up to 3%.
to pay income or capital gains tax on your returns.
INVESTING FOR CHILDREN The maximum investment in a stocks and shares ISA for the You may invest in the Companys shares on behalf of a child 2012 2013 tax year is 11,280.
The full amount may be invested or grandchild using the Fidelity Junior ISA JISA or the Fidelity in a Stocks and Shares ISA, or you can invest up to half the ISA Investment Trust Share Plan.
The maximum investment in a Junior allowance in a Cash ISA and the balance in a Stocks and Shares ISA is 3,600 and it can only be opened by a parent or guardian.
The minimum investment per fund in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 The Share Plan can be designated for the child and transferred to as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up, or 50 a month per company in their name when they reach 18. a regular savings plan.
For further information on investing for children visit Charges The standard initial charge for the Fidelity ISA is 3.5% www.
co. uk its but if you use the online application form you will pay just 1.25% initial charge.
Fidelity pays stamp duty from the initial charge.
BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES INFORMATION RIGHTS There are no other charges for the Fidelity ISA, but the Company Registered shareholders of fully listed companies are able to pays an annual management charge of 1.5% plus a performance nominate the underlying beneficial owners of their shares to related fee, as set out in the Annual Report.
You should contact your registered shareholder direct to request to receive your information rights.
MOVING MONEY FROM A PREVIOUS ISA Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been If you have opened ISAs with other investment companies, you nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive can move them into the Fidelity ISA and invest in Fidelity China information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 Special Situations PLC without losing any tax benefits.
This is are required to direct all communications to the registered holder known as an ISA transfer and it can be a great way to give your of their shares rather than to the Companys Registrars, Capita portfolio a new focus, or to realign it with your current investment Registrars, or to Fidelity direct.
Please note that during the transfer your money will not be invested in the stock market so you may miss out on any growth INVESTING ONLINE during this time.
Whilst you cannot use a Debit Card online to invest through an ISA, JISA or Share Plan the application forms you need are all Charges Fidelity does not apply an initial charge for a transfer available via www.
You can also invest online into Fidelity China Special Situations PLC.
You will also not have to in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC shares via the share pay any additional transfer costs.
However, please bear in mind trading facility available via www.
The that your current ISA manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
If Share Dealing service, ShareNetwork, is provided by Xest which your old fund provider charges you a fee for leaving them, you is the online trading division of Charles Stanley & Co Limited, a can claim it back from us.
Just give Fidelity a call and it will help leading London stockbroker.
ShareNetwork enables you to buy you sort it out.
Please note this offer does not apply to the share or sell shares in any listed company during normal London Stock dealing service.
The annual management charge is as described Exchange trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any working above in the Investing inside an ISA section.
Shares in ShareNetwork can either be held direct or in an ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and restrictions.
You will be INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA shown a live price and be able to buy or sell immediately.
If an If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already used your order is placed when the market is closed, it will be processed full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan offers as soon as the market reopens.
Unlike many online share you an alternative low cost and convenient way to put money into dealing services, Fidelity ShareNetwork gives you CREST personal Fidelity China Special Situations PLC.
The minimum investment membership for shares held direct.
This means that shares are is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a registered on the CREST system in your own name and everything regular savings plan.
relating to your shares dividends, annual reports and so on will be sent direct to you and you will be able to attend and vote at shareholder meetings in your own name.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 62 Investing in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Personal CREST membership does not apply to ISA holdings which must be held in the name of the ISA managers nominee under ISA regulations.
There is no extra charge for opening a ShareNetwork ISA and share purchases or sales are executed on line for only 9 per trade Stamp duty is also payable on purchases at the rate of 0.5%.
There is an account administration fee of 5.10 per month regardless of how many different shares you own and whatever their value.
Of course, you need to remember that the value of tax savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on your individual circumstances, and all tax rules may change in the future.
FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA and Junior ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by FIL Investments International.
Both companies are regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by FIL Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than older developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon by Fidelity.
Fidelity, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, the Fidelity Worldwide Investment logo and symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited.
The content of websites referenced in this document does not form part of this document.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 63
