Information for Investors CONTACT INFORMATION Amendment of Standing Data Allows shareholders to Private investors: call free to 0800 41 41 10, 9am to 6pm, Monday change their registered postal address and add, change or to Saturday.
Shareholders can also download from this site forms such as change of address, Financial advisers: call free to 0800 41 41 81, 8am to 6pm, stock transfer and dividend mandate forms as well as buy Monday to Friday.
and sell shares in the Company.
co. uk its To make use of any of these facilities, please log on to the Capita Existing shareholders who have a specific query regarding their Registrars website at: www.
com holding or need to provide updated information, for example a change of address, should contact the appropriate administrator: Should you have any queries in respect of the above facilities, please do not hesitate to contact the Capita Share Portal helpline Holders of Ordinary Shares on 0871 664 0391 calls cost 10p plus network extras, overseas Capita Registrars, Registrars to Fidelity China Special Situations 44 20 8639 3367, or by e-mail at shareportal@capita.
co. uk PLC, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
Telephone: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus Capita Share Dealing Services network extras.
Lines are open 8.30am 5.30pm Monday to You can make use of a low cost share dealing service provided Friday email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com by Capita Registrars to buy or sell shares.
Further information is available at www.
com, or by telephoning 0871 664 Details of individual shareholdings and other information can 0454 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are also be obtained from the Registrars website: open 8.30am 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
com Dealing Services you will also be able to deal in the shares of other companies for which Capita acts as Registrar, provided Fidelity Share Plan investors you are already a shareholder in the relevant company, and that Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan, PO Box 24035, 12 Blenheim company offers the Share Dealing facility to its shareholders.
Telephone: 0845 358 1107 calls to this number are charged at 3.95p per minute from a BT landline Dividend Reinvestment Plan dependent on the tariff.
Other telephone service providers costs This is a convenient way to build up your shareholding by may vary.
using your cash dividends to buy more shares in the Company.
If you prefer to receive shares for your next dividend instead Fidelity ISA investors of cash please complete an application form online at www.
Fidelity, using the freephone numbers given above, or by writing capitashareportal.
com or call Capita IRG Trustees on 0871 644 to: UK Customer Service, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, Oakhill 0381 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras from the UK House, 130 Tonbridge Road, Hildenborough, Tonbridge, Kent or 44 20 8639 3402 from overseas.
ShareGift General enquiries You may donate your shares to charity free of charge through General enquiries should be made to Fidelity, FIL Investments ShareGift.
Further details are available at International, the Secretary, at the Companys registered office: www.
FIL Investments International Investment Trusts, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP KEEPING YOU UPDATED Telephone: 01732 361144.
Fax: 01737 836 892 If you hold Fidelity China Special Situations PLC shares in a www.
co. uk its Fidelity ISA, you will receive a yearly report detailing all of your ONLINE SHAREHOLDER SERVICES SHARE PORTAL transactions and the value of your shares.
Investors with the Through the website of our Registrars, Capita Registrars, Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan will receive statements and shareholders are able to manage their shareholding online by valuations twice a year.
registering for the Share Portal, a free, secure, online access to your shareholding.
Facilities include: Account Enquiry Allows shareholders to access their personal shareholding, including share transaction history, dividend payment history and to obtain an up-to-date shareholding valuation: Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 64 Warning to Shareholders SHARE FRAUD WARNING Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and o ered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an in ated price for shares they own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are mostly based abroad.
While high pro ts are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
The Financial Services Authority FSA has found most share fraud victims are experienced investors who lose an average of 20,000, with around 200m lost in the UK each year.
PROTECT YOURSELF If you are o ered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free company or research reports, you should take these steps before handing over any money: 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you.
Check the FSA Register at www.
uk fsaregister to ensure they are authorised.
Use the details on the FSA Register to contact the rm.
Call the FSA Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234 if there are no contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
Search our list of unauthorised rms and individuals to avoid doing business with.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
If you use an unauthorised rm to buy or sell shares or other investments, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
REPORT A SCAM If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FSA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can nd out about the latest investment scams.
You can also call the Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 Fidelity, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, the Fidelity Worldwide Investment logo and symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited Printed on FSC certi ed paper.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The FSC logo identi es products which contain wood from well-managed forests certi ed in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk: a paper made using 50% recycled bre from genuine waste paper and 50% virgin bre.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this document, have been reduced to net zero through a veri ed, carbon o setting project.
