Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law of the corporate and financial information included on the and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Companys pages of the Managers website www.
financial statements for each financial year.
Under the law they Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the have elected to prepare the Financial Statements in accordance UK governing the preparation and dissemination of the Financial with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as Statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdictions.
adopted by the European Union.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge the Financial The Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and Statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the or loss for the period.
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position In preparing these Financial Statements the Directors are required of the Company together with a description of the principal risks to: and uncertainties it faces.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Approved by the Board on 12 June 2012 and signed on its behalf.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRS have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the John Owen financial statements: and Chairman 12 June 2012 prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, including a Business Review, a Directors Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 25
