Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Fidelity expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
European Values PLC will be held at 25 Cannon Street, London EC4M 5TA on 16 May 2013 at 12 noon for the following purposes: 12.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to ORDINARY BUSINESS 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Financial Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012. defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given by the said Resolution 11 as if Section 561 of 2.
the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: 3.
To re-elect Mr Humphrey van der Klugt as a Director.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a 4.
To re-elect Mr James Robinson as a Director.
rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of relevant equity securities where the equity securities attributable 5.
To re-elect Mr Simon Fraser as a Director.
respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be 6.
To re-elect Dr Robin Niblett as a Director.
to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the 7.
To elect Ms Marion Sears as a Director.
rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the 8.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to ended 31 December 2012. fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory 9.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor of the body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise : Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which financial statements are laid before the b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue Company.
of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 537,300 approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal 10.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors amount of the issued share capital of the Company as at remuneration.
26 February 2013 : and SPECIAL BUSINESS c to the allotment of equity securities at a price of not less Resolutions 11 and 12 will, if approved, authorise the Directors to than the net asset value per share allot a limited number of the currently unissued ordinary shares for cash without first offering such shares to existing ordinary and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The limit set by Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date the Board is 5% of the number of ordinary shares of the Company 15months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the in issue on 26 February 2013.
The Directors will only issue new earlier, save that this authority shall allow the Company to shares under this authority to take advantage of opportunities in make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority, the market as they arise and only if they believe it is and the Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so.
an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed, Resolution 11 as an ordinary resolution Resolution 13 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew and Resolution 12 as a special resolution: the Companys authority to purchase its shares for cancellation.
The limit set by the Board is 14.99% of the number of ordinary shares in issue on 26 February 2013.
Purchases of shares will be 11.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of made at the discretion of the Board and within guidelines set the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers from time to time by the Board and in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the market at of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 537,300 prices below the prevailing net asset value per share, thereby approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the resulting in an increase in net asset value per share.
issued share capital of the Company as at 26 February 2013 such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual 13.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company the might require relevant securities to be allotted after such shares provided that: Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 55 Notice of Meeting a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be Notes: purchased shall be 6,443,306: 1 A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and to b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is 25p: speak and vote instead of him.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is an each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member market quotations for a share taken from the London Stock of the Company.
Exchange Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is 2 A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the Registrars at purchased: the address on the form to arrive not later than 12 noon on 14 May 2013.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from subsequently attending the meeting and voting in d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the person if they so wish.
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless such authority is renewed prior to such 3 To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power of time: and attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a copy of any such authority certified notarially or in some other way approved by e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares the Directors, must be deposited with the Companys Registrars, under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of Capita Registrars, PXS, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, such authority which will or may be executed wholly or Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR not less than 48 hours before the time for partly after the expiration of such authority and may make holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Resolution 14 is an ordinary resolution, which relates to the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
4 In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint 14.
THAT the Company continue to carry on business as an holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the investment trust.
order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
By Order of the Board 5 To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a previously FIL Investments International appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be Secretary received by the issuers agent RA10 by 12 noon on 14 May 2013.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as 14 March 2013 determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST Members who have appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and systems timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In any case your proxy form must be received by the Companys Registrars no later than 12 noon on 14May 2013.
6 All members are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and ask questions.
The right to vote at the meeting will be determined by reference to the Register of Members as at 12 noon on 14 May 2013.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 56 Notice of Meeting 7 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated 13 It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between Company may be required to publish on its website a statement him and the member by whom he was nominated, have a right to be setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right to be laid before the Annual General Meeting or any circumstance or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of since the previous meeting at which the annual report and financial voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the statements were laid.
The business which may be dealt with at the appointment of proxies in note 2 above does not apply to Nominated Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company Persons.
The right described in that paragraph can only be exercised has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to by members of the Company.
8 If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given 14 Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, discretion as to how the votes which are the subject of those proxies members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have are cast and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, the right to require the Company i to give, to members of the when added to the interests in the Companys securities already held Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure moved at the meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed notifications to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
As a resolution which may be properly included in such business.
A result, any member holding three per cent or more of the voting rights resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in included in the business of the meeting unless a in the case of a respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or Rules, need not make separate notification to the Company and the otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or Financial Services Authority.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the 9 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations matter to be included in the business of the meeting, must be 2001, the Company has specified that to be entitled to attend and authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of the Company not later than 4 April 2013, being the date six clear determining the number of votes they may cast, members must be weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included entered on the register of members by 6.00pm on 14 May 2013.
If the in the business of the meeting only must be accompanied by a meeting is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be statement setting out the grounds for the request.
entered on the register of members at 6.00pm on the day two days before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company 15 No Director has a service contract with the Company.
gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
16 A copy of this notice and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the Companys website at 10 As at 26 February 2013 the latest practicable date prior to the www.
co. uk its publication of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of 42,984,032 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at Registered Office: 26February 2013 was 42,984,032.
Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, 11 Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more Lower Kingswood, corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its Tadworth, powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to Surrey KT20 6RP the same shares.
12 Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint understand that by attending the meeting they are expressly agreeing that they are willing to receive any communications, including communications relating to the Companys securities, made at the meeting.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 57 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC The Manager of the Company FIL Investments International offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way that is best for you.
As Fidelity European Values PLC is a company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA to do is enter the initials or name of the child in the Designation You may invest in the Companys shares through the Fidelity ISA Box on the Share Plan application form.
A Fidelity ISA can be an excellent way to get more from your investment, because you will not have Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or holding to pay income or capital gains tax on your returns.
shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan other than stamp duty of 0.5%, which is currently payable on all share The maximum investment in a stocks and shares ISA is 11,280 for purchases.
However, if you invest through a Financial Adviser, the 2012 2013 tax year and for 2013 2014 the new allowance is there may be additional fees of up to 3% agreed with your 11,520.
The full amount may be invested in a Stocks and Shares adviser.
ISA, or you can invest up to half the ISA allowance in a Cash ISA and the balance in a Stocks and Shares ISA.
The minimum BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES INFORMATION RIGHTS investment per fund in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 as a lump sum, Registered shareholders of fully listed companies are able to 250 as a top-up, or 50 a month per company in a regular nominate the underlying beneficial owners of their shares to receive information rights.
You should contact your registered savings plan.
shareholder direct to request to receive your information rights.
Charges Initial Charges for investments in the Fidelity ISA may Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been vary.
For those investing personally directly with Fidelity, there nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive will be no initial charge.
Those investing through an intermediary information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 will pay a basic initial charge of 0.5% plus any initial fee or are required to direct all communications to the registered commission where applicable agreed with their intermediary.
holder of their shares rather than to the Companys Registrars, Fidelity pays stamp duty from the initial charge.
There are no Capita Registrars, or to the Company direct.
other charges for the Fidelity ISA, but the Company pays an annual management charge to Fidelity of 0.85% plus a INVESTING ONLINE performance related fee where applicable, as set out in the Whilst you cannot use a Debit Card online to buy an ISA or Annual Report.
Share Plan the application forms you need are all available via www.
You can also invest online in Fidelity European Values PLC shares via the share trading facility MOVING MONEY FROM A PREVIOUS ISA If you have opened ISAs with other investment companies, you available via our website www.
can move them into the Fidelity ISA and invest in Fidelity European The Share Dealing service, ShareNetwork, is provided by Xest which is the online trading division of Charles Stanley & Co Values PLC without losing any tax benefits.
Please note that during the transfer your money will not be invested in the stock Limited, a leading London stockbroker.
ShareNetwork enables you market so you may miss out on any growth during this time.
to buy or sell shares in any listed company during normal London Stock Exchange trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any Charges Fidelity does not apply an initial charge for a transfer working day.
Shares in ShareNetwork can either be held direct or into Fidelity European Values PLC.
You will also not have to pay in an ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and restrictions.
You will any additional transfer costs.
However, please bear in mind that be shown a live price and be able to buy or sell immediately.
your current ISA manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
If your If an order is placed when the market is closed, it will be old fund provider charges you a fee for leaving them, you can processed as soon as the market reopens.
Unlike many online claim it back from us.
Please note this offer does not apply to our share dealing services, Fidelity ShareNetwork gives you CREST share dealing service.
personal membership for shares held direct.
This means that shares are registered on the CREST system in your own name and INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA everything relating to your shares dividends, annual reports and so on will be sent direct to you and you will be able to If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already used your full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan offers attend and vote at shareholder meetings in your own name.
you a low cost and convenient way to put money into Fidelity Personal CREST membership does not apply to ISA holdings European Values PLC.
The minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month through a regular which must be held in the name of the ISA managers nominee savings plan.
Holding shares within the Share Plan allows you to under ISA regulations.
There is no extra charge for opening a reinvest your dividends and make further investments without ShareNetwork ISA and share purchases or sales are executed on having to pay brokerage fees.
You will also be able to set up line for only 9 per trade Stamp duty is also payable on a monthly savings plan and receive statements and valuations purchases at the rate of 0.5%.
There is an account administration twice a year.
fee of 5.10 per month, however many different shares you own and whatever their value.
Of course, you need to remember that Investing for children the Share Plan is a flexible and the value of tax savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
All you have Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 58 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC depend on your individual circumstances, and all tax rules may Amendment of Standing Data Allows shareholders to change their registered postal address and add, change or delete change in the future.
Shareholders can also download CONTACT INFORMATION from this site forms such as change of address, stock transfer Private investors: call free to 0800 41 41 10, 9am to 6pm, Monday and dividend mandate forms as well as buy and sell to Saturday.
To make use of any of these facilities, please log on to the Capita Registrars website at: Financial advisers: call free to 0800 41 41 81, 8am to 6pm, www.
co. uk its Should you have any queries in respect of the above facilities, please do not hesitate to contact the Capita Share Portal Existing shareholders who have a specific query regarding their helpline on 0871 664 0391 calls cost 10p plus network extras, holding or need to provide updated information, for example a overseas 44 20 8639 3367, or by e-mail at change of address, should contact the appropriate administrator: shareportal@capita.
co. uk Holders of ordinary shares Capita Share Dealing Services Capita Registrars, Registrars to Fidelity European Values PLC, You can make use of a low cost share dealing service provided by Capita Registrars to buy or sell shares.
Further The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR.
Telephone: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network information is available at www.
Lines are open 8.30am 5.30pm Monday to Friday telephoning 0871 664 0454 calls cost 10p per minute plus email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
Lines are open 8.30am 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Using Capita Share Dealing Services you will also be Details of individual shareholdings and other information able to deal in the shares of other companies for which Capita can also be obtained from the Registrars website: acts as Registrar, provided you are already a shareholder in the www.
com relevant company, and that company offers the Share Deal facility to its shareholders.
Fidelity Share Plan investors Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan, PO Box 24035, 12 Blenheim Dividend Reinvestment Plan Place, Edinburgh EH7 9DD.
Telephone: 0845 358 1107 calls to This is a convenient way to build up your shareholding this number are charged at 3.95p per minute from a BT landline by using your cash dividends to buy more shares in the Company.
If you prefer to receive shares for your next dividend instead dependent on the tariff.
Other telephone service providers costs may vary.
of cash, please complete an application form online at www.
com or call Capita IRG Trustees on 0871 644 0381 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras Fidelity ISA investors Fidelity, using the freephone numbers given above, or by from the UK or 44 20 8639 3402 from overseas.
writing to: UK Customer Service, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, Oakhill House, 130 Tonbridge Road, Hildenborough, Tonbridge, ShareGift Kent TN11 9DZ You may donate your shares to charity free of charge through ShareGift.
Further details are available at www.
uk General enquiries should be made to Fidelity, the Investment or by telephoning 020 7930 3737.
Manager and Secretary, at the Companys registered office: FIL Investments International Investment Trusts, Beech Gate, Millfield KEEPING YOU UPDATED Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP If you hold Fidelity European Values PLC shares in an ISA, you will Telephone: 01732 361144. receive a yearly report detailing all of your transactions and the Fax: 01737 836 892 value of your shares.
Investors with the Fidelity Investment Trust www.
co. uk its Share Plan will receive statements and valuations twice a year.
ONLINE SHAREHOLDER SERVICES SHARE PORTAL The share price of Fidelity European Values PLC appears daily in Through the website of our Registrars, Capita Registrars, The Financial Times.
Price and performance information is also available at www.
You can also obtain current shareholders are able to manage their shareholding online by registering for the Share Portal, a free, secure, online access to price information by telephoning Fidelity on 0800 41 41 10 your shareholding.
freephone or FT Cityline on 0905 817 1690 voice activated service calls charged at 60p per minute on a per second Facilities include: basis from a BT landline.
Charges from other telephone networks may vary.
Account Enquiry Allows shareholders to access their personal shareholding, including share transaction history, dividend payment history and to obtain an up-to-date shareholding valuation: Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 59 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm Monday to Saturday.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by FIL Investments International.
Both companies are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by Bank of New York Mellon and shares will be held in the name of Bank of New York Nominees Limited.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by FIL Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than older developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon by Fidelity.
Issued by Fidelity European Values PLC Fidelity, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, the Fidelity Worldwide Investment logo and symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited.
The contents of websites referred to in this document do not form part of the Annual Report.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 60
