Glossary of Terms BENCHMARK FAIR VALUE The fair value is the best estimate of the value of the investments, FTSE World Europe ex UK Index against which the performance of the Company is measured.
including derivatives, at a point in time and this is measured as: CAPITAL GAINS TAX CGT tJTUFE JOWFTUNFOUT WBMVFE BU CJE QSJDFT PS MBTU NBSLFU QSJDF The tax which you may have to pay if you sell your shares at a where available, otherwise at published price quotations.
t 6OMJTUFE JOWFTUNFOUT WBMVFE VTJOH BO BQQSPQSJBUF WBMVBUJPO COLLATERAL technique in the absence of an active market.
Asset provided as security for the unrealised gain or loss under a Contract For Difference.
t Contracts For Difference are valued as the difference between the settlement price of the contract and the value of the CONTRACT FOR DIFFERENCE CFD underlying shares in the contract unrealised gains or losses.
A Contract For Difference is a derivative.
It is a contract between an investor and an investment house at the end of which the GEARING OR GEARING EXPOSURE parties exchange the difference between the opening price and Gearing or gearing exposure describes the level of a companys the closing price of the underlying asset of the specified financial leverage and is usually expressed as a percentage.
It can be through the use of bank loans, bank overdrafts or Contracts For instrument.
It does not involve the investor buying or selling the underlying asset, only agreeing to receive or pay the movement in Difference in order to increase a companys exposure to stocks.
A Contract For Difference allows the investor to Leverage is permitted to buy or gain exposure to further gain access to the movement in the share price by depositing a investments.
If assets rise in value, gearing magnifies the return to small amount of cash known as margin.
The investor may reason ordinary shareholders.
Correspondingly, if the assets fall in value, that the asset price will rise, by buying long position or fall, by gearing magnifies the fall.
The gearing percentage reflects the selling short position.
If the investor trades long, dividends are amount of leverage a company uses to invest in the market.
received and interest is paid.
If the investor trades short, dividends Contracts For Difference are used as a way of gaining exposure are paid and interest is received.
The Company only uses long to the price movements of shares without buying the underlying Contracts For Difference.
CORPORATION TAX GEARING PERCENTAGE The tax the Company may have to pay on its profits.
Investment In a simple example, if a company has 100 million of net assets and 8 million of borrowings either via bank loans or long trust companies are exempt from corporation tax on their capital gains and do not pay tax on any UK dividends.
As they can offset Contracts For Difference then the Shareholders funds are 8% expenses against any taxable income, most investment trusts do geared.
Normally, the higher the gearing factor, the more sensitive an investment trusts shares will be to the movements up not pay corporation tax and are therefore tax efficient.
and down in the value of the investment portfolio.
DERIVATIVES Financial instruments such as futures, options and Contracts For HEDGING Difference whose value is derived from the value of an underlying A strategy aimed at minimising or eliminating the risk or loss asset.
through adverse movements, normally involving positions in two different markets, with one offsetting the other.
Currently the DISCOUNT Company uses derivative instruments for gearing and investment If the share price of the Company is lower than the net asset rather than hedging purposes.
value per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NET ASSET VALUE NAV net asset value.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is Net asset value is sometimes also described as shareholders more common for an investment trust to trade at a discount funds, and represents the total value of the Companys assets less the total value of its liabilities.
For valuation purposes it is than a premium.
common to express the net asset value on a per share basis.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 61 Glossary of Terms ONGOING CHARGES Total expenses excluding finance costs and taxation incurred by the Company as a percentage of average net asset values previously known as the total expense ratio.
PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that a company offering a new issue of shares must first make an offer of these shares, on the same or more favourable terms, in proportion to the nominal value held by existing shareholders.
At each annual general meeting, the Board seeks shareholder approval to disapply pre-emption right provisions, up to 5%.
PREMIUM If the share price of the Company is higher than the net asset value per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a premium.
The premium is shown as a percentage of the net asset value.
The opposite of a premium is a discount.
RETURN The return generated in the period from the investments: t Revenue Return reflects the dividends and interest from investments and other income net of expenses, finance costs and taxation.
t Capital Return reflects the return on capital, excluding any income returns.
t Total Return reflects the aggregate of revenue and capital returns in the period.
SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS Shareholders funds are also described as net asset value and represent the total value of the Companys assets less the total value of its liabilities.
TOTAL PORTFOLIO EXPOSURE The total of fixed asset investments at fair value plus the fair value of the underlying securities within the Contracts For Difference.
TOTAL RETURN PERFORMANCE The return on the share price or net asset value per share taking into account the rise and fall of share prices and the dividends paid to shareholders.
Any dividends received by the shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in additional shares for share price total return or the Companys assets for net asset value total return.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 62 Warning to Shareholders SHARE FRAUD WARNING Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an inflated price for shares they own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are mostly based abroad.
While high profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
The Financial Services Authority FSA has found most share fraud victims are experienced investors who lose an average of 20,000, with around 200m lost in the UK each year.
PROTECT YOURSELF If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free company or research reports, you should take these steps before handing over any money: 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you.
Check the FSA Register at www.
uk fsaregister to ensure they are authorised.
Use the details on the FSA Register to contact the firm.
Call the FSA Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234 if there are no contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
Search our list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid doing business with.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
REPORT A SCAM If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FSA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can find out about the latest investment scams.
You can also call the Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 63 ATTENDANCE CARD Fidelity European Values PLC Annual General Meeting PLEASE RETURN THE CARD BELOW IN THE ENVELOPE PROVIDED BY 12 NOON ON 14 MAY 2013 Notes 1.
On receipt of this form duly signed but without specific directions the proxy will vote or abstain at his discretion.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.
You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
To do so, additional proxy form s may be obtained by contacting Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 8.30 am 5.30 pm Monday Friday or you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to vote as your proxy.
This form of proxy must be lodged at the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, PXS, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU not less than forty-eight hours before the time of the meeting or any adjournment thereof together with the power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority.
In the case of joint holders the vote of the senior who tenders the vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
The names of all the joint holders should be stated.
The Directors of Fidelity European Values PLC invite you to attend 5.
If the appointor is a corporation this form of proxy must be executed under its common seal or be signed on its behalf by an officer or the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at 25 Cannon Street, attorney duly authorised.
London EC4M 5TA at 12 noon on 16 May 2013 together with a short presentation by 6.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
may appoint a proxy of their choice.
If such an appointment is made, delete the words the Chairman of the meeting or and insert the name of the person appointed proxy in the space provided.
The Barcode: Chairman of the meeting will act as your proxy whether or not such Signature of deletion is made if no other name is inserted.
Completion and return of this form will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
Investor code: Registered office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP Registered number: 2638812 FORM OF PROXY Barcode: Fidelity European Values PLC Annual General Meeting Investor code: Event code: I We being a shareholder s of the above-named Company hereby appoint the Chairman of the meeting or as my our proxy to vote on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 16 May 2013 at 12 noon and at any adjournment thereof.
I have indicated with a X how I we wish my our votes to be cast on the following resolutions: Please mark X to indicate how you wish to vote Vote ORDINARY BUSINESS For Against Withheld 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 2.
To re-elect Mr Humphrey van der Klugt as a Director 4.
To re-elect Mr James Robinson as a Director 5.
To re-elect Mr Simon Fraser as a Director 6.
To re-elect Dr Robin Niblett as a Director 7.
To elect Ms Marion Sears as a Director 8.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 9.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor of the Company to hold of ce until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which financial statements are laid before the Company 10.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration SPECIAL BUSINESS 11.
To renew the Directors authority to allot shares 12.
To renew the Companys authority to make market purchases of shares in the capital of the Company 14.
That the Company continue to carry on business as an investment trust To assist with arrangements, if you intend attending the meeting in person please place a X in the box opposite Signature Date Fidelity, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, the Fidelity Worldwide Investment logo and symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited Printed on FSC certied paper.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The FSC logo identies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certied in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk: a paper made using 50% recycled bre from genuine waste paper and 50% virgin bre.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this document, have been reduced to net zero through a veried, carbon osetting project.
