Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, including a and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Business Review, a Directors Remuneration Report and a financial statements for each financial period.
Under that law Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and they have elected to prepare the financial statements in those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys pages of the Managers The financial statements are required by law to give a true and website www.
Visitors to the website need to be fair view of the state of aairs of the Company and of the profit aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the or loss for the period.
preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may dier from legislation in their own jurisdictions.
"In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of t TFMFDU TVJUBCMF BDDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT BOE UIFO BQQMZ UIFN accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, consistently: liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: t NBLF KVEHFNFOUT BOE FTUJNBUFT UIBU BSF SFBTPOBCMF BOE and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position prudent: t TUBUF XIFUIFS BQQMJDBCMF 6, ""DDPVOUJOH 4UBOEBSET IBWF CFFO of the Company together with a description of the principal risks followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and and uncertainties it faces."
explained in the financial statements: and t QSFQBSF UIF mOBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT PO UIF HPJOH DPODFSO CBTJT Approved by the Board on 26 February 2013 and signed on unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will its behalf.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Humphrey van der Klugt safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking Chairman reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 23
