Promotion to retail investors is made In addition, there are multi-currency credit facilities through the F&C savings plans.
These include the with National Australia Bank and Scotiabank Europe Child Trust Fund CTF, Childrens Investment totalling 125m, which will be subject to review in Plan CIP, Junior ISA JISA, Individual Savings September 2013 and December 2013 respectively.
Account ISA, Pensions Savings Plan PSP and Further reference is made on page 2 and in notes Private Investor Plan PIP.
The plans are designed 14 and 17 on the accounts.
to provide regular investors with a cost effective and flexible way to invest in the Company.
The Boards responsibilities The Companys Board of Directors is wholly nonVoting rights and proportional voting executive and is responsible for corporate strategy, At 28 February 2013 the Companys 575,284,016 corporate governance, risk and control assessment, ordinary shares in issue represented a total of the overall investment policy of the Company, setting 575,284,016 voting rights.
As at and since that limits on gearing and asset allocation, monitoring date no notifications of significant voting rights investment performance and for approving marketing have been received under the FSAs Disclosure and policy budgets.
Further information in relation to the Transparency Rules.
Board can be found on page 27.
Information on Approximately 47% of the Companys share capital the individual Directors, all of whom are resident in is held on behalf of non-discretionary clients through the UK, can be found on pages 12 and 13. the F&C savings plans.
The nominee company holding these shares votes the shares held on behalf Directors remuneration of plan holders who have not returned their voting The Directors Remuneration Report, which can be directions in proportion to the directions of those who found on pages 25 and 26, together with note have proportional voting.
Implementation of this 6 on the accounts, provides detailed information on arrangement is subject to a minimum threshold of 5% the remuneration arrangements for Directors of the of the shares held in the savings plans being voted.
Shareholders will be asked to approve A maximum limit of 672,000 shares that any one the Directors Remuneration Report at the Annual individual investor can vote, being approximately 5% General Meeting Resolution 2. of the minimum threshold, also applies.
Any shares voted by an investor in excess of the maximum limit Director re-elections and retirements remain valid, but do not form part of the proportional All the Directors held office throughout the year voting basis.
Plan holders have the right to exclude under review and will stand for re-election at the their shares from the proportional voting arrangement.
Annual General Meeting Resolutions 4 to 10.
The Nomination Committee considered the proposed Borrowings re-elections at a meeting held in January 2013, The Company has a 110 million 11.25% debenture including a review of their commitment and status stock, which matures in December 2014, and as independent.
The Board has concurred with the a 575,000 4.25% perpetual debenture stock.
Nomination Committees assessment that each Information in relation to the debentures can be found Director continues to make a valuable and effective in note 18 on the accounts.
The Company also has contribution and remains committed in their roles.
the ability to use short-term borrowings by way of Sir Michael Bunbury and Sir David Clementi retired loans and overdrafts, subject to the limits set out in from the Board on 8 May 2012. the Companys objective, strategy and policy section and the debenture deeds.
In April 2012 a term loan Directors interests and indemnification of 100m was arranged with JPMorgan Chase Bank There were no contracts of significance to which the in the currency equivalents of US$80m and 6,600m Company was a party and in which a Director is, for a fixed period of seven years.
The Company also or was, materially interested during the year.
There has a multi-currency overdraft facility with this bank.
