Notes on the Accounts continued 27 Financial Risk Management The Company is an investment company, listed on the London Stock Exchange, and conducts its affairs so as to qualify in the United Kingdom UK as an investment trust under the provisions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
In so qualifying, the Company is exempted in the UK from corporation tax on capital gains on its portfolio of investments.
The Companys investment objective is to secure long-term growth in capital and income through a policy of investing primarily in an internationally diversified portfolio of public listed equities, as well as unlisted securities and private equity, with the use of gearing.
In pursuing the objective, the Company is exposed to financial risks which could result in a reduction of either or both of the value of the net assets and the profits available for distribution by way of dividend.
These financial risks are principally related to the market currency movements, interest rate changes and security price movements, liquidity and credit.
The Board of Directors, together with the Manager, is responsible for the Companys risk management.
The Directors policies and processes for managing the financial risks are set out in a, b and c below.
The accounting policies which govern the reported Balance Sheet carrying values of the underlying financial assets and liabilities, as well as the related income and expenditure, are set out in note 2 on the accounts.
The policies are in compliance with UK Accounting Standards and best practice, and include the valuation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value except as noted in d below and in note 18 in respect of debenture stocks.
The Company does not make use of hedge accounting rules.
a Market risks The fair value of equity and other financial securities including derivatives held in the Companys portfolio fluctuates with changes in market prices.
Prices are themselves affected by movements in currencies and interest rates and by other financial issues, including the market perception of future risks.
The Boards policies for managing these risks within the Companys objective include: risk diversification no more than 5% of the portfolio may be invested in unlisted securities, excluding private equity investments, and no single investment may be made which exceeds 10% of the value of the portfolio at the time of acquisition: currency exposure borrowings are limited to amounts and currencies commensurate with the portfolios exposure to those currencies: and gearing-borrowings including the debentures value at market value should not normally exceed 20% of shareholders funds.
Options may only be written on quoted stocks and the total nominal exposure is limited to a maximum of 5% of the UK portfolio at the time of investment for both put and call options.
The Board meets regularly to review full, timely and relevant information on investment performance and financial results.
The Manager assesses exposure to market risks when making each investment decision and monitors ongoing market risk within the portfolio.
A description of derivative positions, which are also exposed to market price changes, together with the Managers and Boards strategies for using these positions for efficient portfolio management is contained in this note, under Other market risk exposures page 59.
The Companys other assets and liabilities may be denominated in currencies other than Sterling and may also be exposed to interest rate risks.
The Manager and the Board regularly monitor these risks.
The Company does not normally hold significant cash balances.
Borrowings are limited to amounts and currencies commensurate with the portfolios exposure to those currencies, thereby limiting the Companys exposure to future changes in foreign exchange rates.
Debenture stocks were issued as part of the Companys planned gearing.
All contracts and compliance with them, including the Debenture trust deeds, are agreed and monitored by the Board.
Gearing may be short or long-term in Sterling and foreign currencies, and enables the Company to take a long-term view of the countries and markets in which it is invested without having to be concerned about short-term volatility.
Income earned in foreign currencies is converted to Sterling on receipt.
The Board regularly monitors the effects on net revenue of interest earned on deposits and paid on gearing.
56 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
