Directors Report and Business Review continued Service providers Risk description: Administrative errors or control failures by or between service providers could be damaging to the interests of investors and the Company.
Mitigation: The Board receives annual reports from the Manager on its monitoring of service providers which, for the administration of the F&C savings plans, includes audit site visits: monthly technical compliance monitoring: monthly service delivery meetings: quarterly financial crime prevention forums: and the detailed review and investigation of breaches and complaints.
Arrangements are also in place to mitigate other service provider risks, including those relating to safe custody.
Most of the principal risks are market-related and part of its wider strategy under which the Board has no different from those of other investment trusts the objective of achieving a less volatile discount with investing primarily in listed equities.
More specific to a ceiling, in normal market conditions, of 10% with Foreign & Colonial are those relating to private equity, debt at market value, as well as enhancing net asset the prospects for which are described in the Chairmans value per share for continuing shareholders.
As at Statement and Fund Managers Review.
31 December 2012 the discount stood at 10.4% with Arrangements are also in place to mitigate other debt at market value.
more general risks including those relating to regulatory At the Annual General Meeting held on 8 May 2012, changes including to AIFMD, safe custody of assets shareholders renewed the Boards authority to buy and counterparty failure.
Note 27 on the accounts sets back up to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares out the Companys financial risk management policy.
A total of 13,146,000 shares were bought back and cancelled, representing 2.2% of the Capital structure shares in issue at 31 December 2011.
This enhanced As at 31 December 2012 there were 577,191,016 the net asset value per share by 0.9 pence per share.
ordinary shares of 25 pence each ordinary shares The purchases were made at prices ranging between in issue.
As at 28 February 2013, the number stood 283 pence and 321 pence and the aggregate at 575,284,016.
All ordinary shares rank equally consideration paid for the shares, including stamp for dividends and distributions and carry one vote duty and commissions, was 40,414,000. each.
There are no restrictions concerning the Between the year end and 28 February 2013, transfer of securities in the Company, no special a further 1,907,000 shares have been purchased rights with regard to control attached to securities, which represents approximately 0.33% of the share no agreements between holders of securities capital at an average price of 346.25 pence.
regarding their transfer known to the Company and A resolution to renew the authority to buy back no agreement which the Company is party to that up to 86,235,000 shares will be put to shareholders affects its control following a takeover bid.
Details at the Annual General Meeting Resolution 14.
A of the capital structure can be found in note 19 on resolution to authorise the Directors to allot up to the accounts.
The revenue profits of the Company 28,764,000 shares will also be proposed Resolution including accumulated revenue reserves are 13.
This authority and power provides the Directors available for distribution by way of dividends to the with a degree of flexibility to increase the assets of holders of the ordinary shares.
Upon a windingthe Company by the issue of new shares should any up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the favourable opportunities arise to the advantage of surplus assets would be distributed to shareholders shareholders.
pro rata to their holdings of ordinary shares.
Marketing Buyback and share issue policy The Manager actively promotes investment in the Subject to annual shareholder approval, the Company Companys shares, which are designed for private may buy back its own shares for cancellation at a investors in the UK including retail investors, discount to net asset value per share.
This forms  private clients and institutional 18 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
