Directors Report and Business Review continued are no agreements between the Company and its The appointment is governed by a management Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
agreement, which is terminable upon six months The Company has granted a deed of indemnity to notice given by either party.
Further information on the Directors in respect of liabilities that may attach to this agreement is set out in note 4 on the accounts.
them in the capacity as Directors of the Company.
This Jeremy Tigue acts as Fund Manager the Fund covers any liabilities that may arise to a third party for Manager to the Company, on behalf of F&C, and negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
The deed is responsible and accountable for the entire portfolio of indemnity has been in force throughout the period including North America and private equity.
As at under review and remains in place as at the date of this 28 February 2013 the Fund Manager held 456,696 report.
It is available for inspection at the Companys shares in the Company 31 December 2012: 453,077 registered office during normal business hours and shares.
at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company also maintains directors and officers liability insurance.
Foreign & Colonial and F&C The beneficial interests of the Directors in the Once a subsidiary of Foreign & Colonial, F&C is now ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the owned by FCAM, a large pan-European investment table below: group listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Foreign & Colonial has a long association with F&C, having Directors share interests originally established and developed the business for at 31 December 2012 2011 the purpose of managing its assets as far back as Simon Fraser 36,377 36,246 1953.
The Companys relationship with F&C is fully arms-length with no cross-directorships or common Sarah Arkle 10,000 10,000 share interests.
Sir Roger Bone 26,255 23,660 Part of the legacy is that the names Foreign & Stephen Burley 25,000 25,000 Colonial and F&C are often used synonymously and incorrectly by commentators in the public arena.
Jeffrey Hewitt 13,675 11,407 However, the companies each own their respective Christopher Keljik 60,610 59,289 names and are two distinct and completely Nicholas Moakes holds 16,665 units in the Skandia F&C Investment independent entities.
Fund, a collective investment fund investing solely in the Company.
Since the year end, the following Directors have acquired further ordinary shares: Mr Simon Fraser 37, Sir Roger Bone 443, Mr Jeffrey Hewitt 371 North America portfolio and Mr Christopher Keljik 286.
There have been no changes in any of the other Directors shareholdings detailed above.
No Director held any In the case of the regional equity portfolios, the Fund interests in the issued stocks or shares of the Company other than as stated above.
Manager has the flexibility to recommend to the The Companys register of Directors interests contains full details of Board their delegation to external third party subDirectors shareholdings.
managers when this seems likely to result in better investment performance.
Throughout the period The Managers responsibilities under review there were two sub-managers for the Most investment trusts, including your Company, have North America large and mid-cap equity portfolios, no employees and instead appoint fund management namely Barrow Hanley and T Rowe Price.
companies to manage their investment portfolios and deliver investment performance, as well as to carry Private equity portfolio out the ancillary functions of administration, secretarial, The private equity funds of funds investments are accounting and marketing services.
managed externally by the private equity managers, The Company has appointed F&C as Manager.
Pantheon Ventures Limited Pantheon and F&C is responsible for gearing, asset allocation and HarbourVest Partners LLC HarbourVest.
The sector and stock selection, together with the overall Fund Manager acts as a representative of the risk management of the Companys assets, within Company on the advisory committees of these limits set and regularly monitored by the Board.
Recommendations for further private 20 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
