Information for Shareholders Net asset value and share price Shareholders in doubt as to their CGT position The Companys net asset value is released daily, on should consult their professional advisers.
the working day following the calculation date, to the London Stock Exchange.
The current share price of Income tax Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is shown in the The final dividend of 2.50 pence per share is payable investment trust section of the stock market page in on 1 May 2013.
Individual UK resident shareholders most leading newspapers, usually under For & Col. who are subject to UK income tax at the lower Investors in New Zealand can obtain share prices rate or the basic rate have no further tax liability.
from leading newspapers in that country.
Shareholders not resident in the UK, and any shareholders in doubt as to their tax position, should Performance information consult their professional advisers.
Information on the Companys performance is provided in the half-yearly and final reports which Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP are sent to shareholders in August and March The Company through Computershare Investor respectively and in the interim management statement Services PLC now offers shareholders the announcements.
More up-to-date performance opportunity to purchase further shares through information, including the full list of investments in the the DRIP.
DRIP forms may be obtained from portfolio as at the most recent month end, is available Computershare through their secure website on the Internet at www.
co. uk, or by phoning under Investor Information.
com also provides a monthly update on the Companys geographic spread and largest Association of Investment Companies AIC holdings, along with comments from the Fund Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is a member Manager.
of the AIC, which publishes a monthly statistical information service in respect of member companies.
UK capital gains tax CGT The publication also has details of ISA and other An approved investment trust does not pay tax on investment plans available.
For further details, please capital gains.
UK resident individuals may realise net contact the AIC on 020 7282 5555, or visit the capital gains of up to 10,600 in the tax year ended website: www.
5 April 2013 without incurring any tax liability.
The rate of CGT of 18% will apply where taxable income and gains do not exceed the income tax higher rate threshold 34,370 in 2012-13 tax year.
The higher rate of 28% will apply to those whose income and gains exceed this figure.
For UK investors who acquired Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust stock prior to 31 March 1982, the costs for CGT purposes, based on the price at that date, adjusted for capital changes are as follows: Unit of Market Quotation price Ordinary shares 25p 14.875p 4.25% perpetual debenture stock 100 28.25 64 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
