Directors Report and Business Review continued or failure of the management of the total portfolio The Boards priorities for the year ahead against the performance objectives set by the Board, The overriding priority is to continue to strive for the to assess the sources of positive and negative consistent achievement of relative outperformance: contribution to the portfolio in terms of gearing, asset adding value for shareholders through net asset allocation and stock selection and to assess the value and share price total return: discount performance of each region against its local index and management: dividend growth: low and competitive the risk return characteristics of the portfolio.
ongoing charges: effective marketing following the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review Decision to re-appoint the Manager and effective implementation of the regulatory The annual evaluation took place in January 2013 requirements of the AIFMD.
The outlook for the with presentations from the Fund Manager and the Company is covered in the Chairmans Statement on Head of Investment Trusts.
This covered services page 4. and developments at F&C as well as investment performance.
With regard to performance, the Manager Annual General Meeting had beaten the Companys benchmark over one year Shareholders will have received a separate enclosure and the weighted average of the net asset value total containing the Notice of the Annual General Meeting return of the AIC Global Growth sector over one year.
to be held at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Asset allocation had a negative impact whereas stock Street, London EC2 on Tuesday 23 April 2013 at selection had been positive in all markets apart from 12 noon.
The enclosure explains each resolution and the UK.
Stock selection had been particularly strong in the voting arrangements.
The Manager outperformed the benchmark over three years and had comfortably outperformed it over ten years.
The Board met in closed session following the By order of the Board, presentations and concluded that in their opinion the for and on behalf of F&C Management Limited, continuing appointment of F&C as Manager on the Secretary terms agreed was in the interests of shareholders as 1 March 2013 a whole.
24 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
