equity and unlisted investments remain subject to accounts provides detailed information in relation to approval by the Board.
Safe custody of assets Sub-managers fees The Companys listed investments are held in safe The Manager incurred investment management fees custody by the Custodian.
Operational matters with from the sub-managers appointed to manage the the Custodian are carried out on the Companys North America portfolio.
The Company reimburses behalf by the Manager in accordance with the the Manager for these fees, which in 2012 amounted provisions of the management agreement.
to 1.5 million 2011: 1.3 million see note 4 on the accounts.
Responsible ownership F&C, in the absence of explicit instructions from Private equity managers fees the Board, is empowered to exercise discretion The fees paid to Pantheon and HarbourVest in the use of the Companys voting rights.
All in respect of the private equity funds of funds shareholdings are voted at all meetings worldwide amounted to 6.3m for 2012 2011: 6.1m of which where practicable in accordance with the Managers 0.6m was paid directly and 5.7m was incurred own corporate governance policy, which is to seek indirectly through the funds.
Some of the funds have to maximise shareholder value by constructive use arrangements whereby these private equity managers of votes at company meetings and by endeavouring share in the profits once certain hurdle rates of return to use its influence as an investor with a principled to investors have been achieved.
These arrangements approach to corporate governance.
Environmental are varied and complex, but are on normal commercial factors are, where appropriate, taken into terms within the private equity funds of funds industry.
consideration with regard to investment decisions Fees payable by the underlying funds are negotiated taken on behalf of the Company.
The arrangements F&Cs statement of compliance with The UK also vary from fund to fund, but management fees of Stewardship Code, issued by the Financial Reporting 2% per annum and a 20% carried interest, once an Council in July 2010, has been reviewed and endorsed agreed hurdle rate of return for investors has been by the Board, which encourages and supports the achieved, would be normal.
Manager on its voting policy and its stance towards environmental, social and governance issues.
The Creditor payment policy statement is available on the Managers website at The Companys principal supplier is the Manager, www.
The Board the payment terms for which are set out above.
periodically receives a report on instances where the Other suppliers are paid in accordance with Manager has voted against the recommendation of individually agreed payment terms.
the management on any resolution.
It also expects to At 31 December 2012 the Companys outstanding be informed of any sensitive voting issues involving the trade creditors were equivalent to nil days payments Companys investments.
The Managers fees Performance measurement The Manager receives an annual fee, which for the The Board recognises that it is share price performance year under review was equal to 0.365% of the market that is most important to the Companys shareholders, capitalisation of the Company.
The fee is calculated coupled with an increasing dividend in real terms.
and paid monthly and is subject to a deduction for Underlying share price performance is net asset value amounts earned from investments in other investment performance, for which the Board looks to its Manager.
The amount received The fee payable to the Manager is based on the was 6,228,000 2011: 6,295,000.
Note 4 on the market capitalisation of the Company, thus aligning the Report and Accounts 2012 21
