2 Significant accounting policies continued ii Fixed asset investments and derivative financial instruments As an Investment Trust, the Company measures its fixed asset investments at fair value through profit or loss and treats all transactions on the realisation and revaluation of investments held as fixed assets, as transactions on the Capital Account.
Purchases are recognised on the relevant trade date, inclusive of expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of the investments.
Sales are also recognised on the trade date, after deducting expenses incidental to the sales.
Quoted investments are valued at bid value at the close of business on the relevant date on the exchange on which the investment is listed.
Investments which are not quoted or which are not frequently traded are stated at Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar investment instruments.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated, investments are carried at cost or less any provision for impairment.
With respect specifically to investments in private equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely on unaudited valuations of the underlying unlisted investments as supplied by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the above policies.
Distributions from private equity funds are recognised when the right to distributions is established.
iii Derivative Instruments Derivatives including forward exchange contracts and options are classified as held for trading and are accounted for as financial assets or liabilities.
Where it can be demonstrated that the derivative is connected to the maintenance of the Companys investments, the change in fair value is recognised as capital and shown in the Capital column of the Income Statement.
Where an option is written in the expectation that it will not be exercised, or that any losses on exercise will be outweighed by the value of the premiums received, the premiums are recognised in the Revenue column of the Income Statement.
The value of the premium is usually the options initial fair value and is recognised evenly over the life of the option.
Subsequent changes to fair value are adjusted in the Capital column of the Income Statement such that the total amounts recognised within Revenue and Capital represent the change in fair value of the option.
iv Debt Instruments The Companys debt instruments include the long-term debenture stock included in the Balance Sheet at proceeds received, net of issue costs, and short-term bank borrowings and overdrafts, initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
No debt instruments held during the year required hierarchical classification.
The 11.25% debenture stock was issued in 1989 and 4.25% perpetual debenture stock was issued in 1960.
The fair market value of these debenture stocks is set out in note 18 on the accounts.
Finance charges, including interest, are accrued using the effective interest rate method.
See 2 vii below for allocation of finance charges within the Income Statement.
v Foreign currency Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are expressed in Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Purchases and sales of investment securities, dividend income, interest income and expenses are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the respective dates of such transactions.
Exchange profits and losses on fixed assets investments are included within the changes in fair value in the Capital Account.
Exchange profits and losses on other currency balances are separately credited or charged to the Capital Account except where they relate to revenue items.
vi Income Income from equity shares is brought into the Revenue Account except where, in the opinion of the Directors, its nature indicates it should be recognised as within the Capital Account on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on nonequity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the investment.
Dividends are accounted for in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 16 Current Taxation FRS16 on the basis of income actually receivable, without adjustment for the tax credit attaching to the dividends.
Dividends from overseas companies continue to be shown gross of withholding tax.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash scrip dividends, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in capital reserves.
