Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Annual Performance Bonuses for 2011 12 appropriate to set a formal upper limit on ultimate discretion is in the best interests Remuneration Report explained The work of the Remuneration Committee 2012 was again a year of excellent individual discretionary awards.
This avoids the possible The Corporate Governance statement on pages 36 to 43 contains information regarding the responsibilities of the Committee and its performance for Hargreaves Lansdown.
The the total performance bonus pool to be unintended consequences of using an Remuneration Committee was delighted by distributed is determined by the Committee arbitrary formula.
the strong results of the Company delivered with due regard to the results of the Activities of the Committee Base Salaries for 2012 13 by the CEO and his executive team.
The Company and the growth in EPS.
Secondly, However, we want to provide an additional During the year the Committee held five meetings and discussed the following: strong profits, growth in EPS, increased by individually considering each Directors level of assurance to our shareholders that Base Salary per annum Ian Gorham 450,000 dividends and excellent client service performance against his or her personal there are controls on the levels of annual Meeting What was discussed Tracey Taylor 250,000 achieved in volatile market conditions were objectives, we ensure that payment is Performance Bonuses that may be paid.
August 2011 Approve Remuneration Code staff list and associated disclosure.
proposed only where performance merits With this in mind, with effect from the year Peter Hargreaves 2,000 very pleasing and the Committee felt this Approve the Directors Remuneration Report for 2010 11. warranted an annual performance bonus an award.
Given these controls, the success ended 30th June 2013 the total annual Approve the updated Terms of Reference of the Committee.
As mentioned previously, the base salary comparable to last year.
of the Company in motivating and retaining performance bonus pool will be capped at a maximum of 5% of Profit Before Tax for figures in the above table are the reference Directors and historic restraint in bonus October 2011 Appoint new member of the Remuneration Committee.
base salaries of the Executive Director The Committee believes that any incentive payments, the Committee believes retaining each financial year.
before any salary sacrifice or exchange into compensation awarded should be November 2011 Review feedback received from institutional investors at AGM.
tied to the interests of the Companys Approve revised Remuneration Code Staff list.
The annual performance Performance graphs The following graph shows the Companys performance, measured by Total Receive an update on Directors shareholdings.
Short term incentives bonus pool available for Directors is based Shareholder Return TSR i. e. capital growth and dividends paid, compared with the Review Pillar 3 disclosures.
Annual Performance Bonus on a percentage of profit before tax.
This performance of the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index during the period since flotation.
percentage is not fixed in advance and is Directors may be paid a discretionary February 2012 Receive an update on Directors shareholdings.
Performance Bonus for each financial year determined having taken account of the Total Shareholder Return Initial discussion of changes to remuneration for Directors.
Performance Bonuses for results of the Company, particularly assessed 2011 12 and for 2012 13 are determined against growth in Earnings Per Share EPS.
This graph sho ws the HL TSR value of 100 invested in May 2012 Discussion of changes to remuneration for Directors.
based on performance in the year Due regard is also taken of unusual rises or FTSE 350 Financial Services Index Hargreaves Lansdown plc Review of base salaries.
assessed against a number of key areas of falls in the markets which would artificially shares on 15 May 2007 Initial discussion of anticipated annual Performance Bonus admission to the Official performance.
raise or lower the revenue and hence the List compared to 100 outcomes for 2011 12. profit of the Company in any given year.
invested in the FTSE 350 Annual Performance Bonuses are nonFinancial Services Sector.
Performance Bonuses will Performance Bonus awards may, at the be materially affected if either the Group discretion of the Remuneration Committee, Who may be asked to attend Remuneration services they provide are subject to review or an individual falls short of performance be paid as cash and or as additional Committee meetings?
in accordance with arrangements for expectations.
No Performance Bonus will employer pension contributions.
The total Performance Bonuses awards to Directors, In determining the Directors remuneration provision of such services as described in be paid should the Committee consider it and the remuneration structure for the the report of the Audit Committee inappropriate.
as a percentage of base salary was 217% current financial year, the Committee for the year 2011: 223%.
consulted Peter Hargreaves, Stephen Base Salary Criteria for Annual As the Company was not listed on a stock exchange prior to May 2007, a comparison of TSR prior to 15 May Lansdown and Ian Gorham about its Base salaries are normally reviewed Performance Bonus: Over the previous three years, Bonuses for 2007 has not been possible due to the absence of a quoted share price.
proposals, although no Director was annually and any changes are effective Directors have ranged from nil to 450% The following graph shows the Companys performance measured using earnings per share EPS over the involved in discussions regarding his own from 1 July each year.
Historically Group performance of base salary, and from nil to a value of past ten years.
Executive Directors base salaries have Success in gathering profitable 1,250,000. remuneration.
been set well below the market median.
client assets Growth in EPS Advisers Improving and maintaining longThe numbers shown exclude Peter term profitability Hargreaves.
He is a founder of Hargreaves The Committee appointed and received In reviewing base salaries the advice from: Remuneration Committee takes into Robustness, sustainability and Lansdown and has agreed a low HL EPS account salaries elsewhere across scalability of operations remuneration package with the Company which reflects his existing shareholding.
TLT LLP: legal advice drafting the rules for the Group, relevant market data and Risk management the new executive share option scheme and information on remuneration practice in Compliance His base salary of 15,750 for 2011 12 bonus deferral plan.
They also provided a comparator group of companies in the Client satisfaction distorts the percentage.
employment law advice to the Group.
Personal performance Annual Performance Bonuses for 2012 13 Deloitte LLP: information on regulatory Peter Hargreaves salary was reduced during Setting direction We are proposing that a similar approach developments and market conditions.
2011 12 to reflect reduced working hours.
Executing new initiatives to that described above will be used to Improving and protecting the client determine annual Performance Bonuses Advice on the revisions to the remuneration policy, advice on the design No increases were made to the base base for 2012 2013. of the new executive share option scheme salaries of the Executive Directors as at Cost control Process improvement Cap on annual performance bonus pool for and critique of the wording of the Directors 1 July 2012 and the base salaries of the Remuneration Report.
Deloitte is the Executive Directors for 2012 13 will At least 3 role-specific objectives directors from 2012 2013 Groups external auditor.
00 0 13.10 13.10 19.56 19.56 24.06 24.06 EPS pence EPS pence Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
