Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Notes to the Financial Statements Directors, Company Secretary, Advisers and Shareholder Information 27.
Financial instruments continued EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Ian Gorham Capital management Peter Hargreaves Capital is defined as the total of share capital, share premium, retained earnings and other reserves.
Total capital at 30 June 2012 was Tracey Taylor 157,419,000 2011: 130,867,000 and this capital is managed via the net assets to which it relates.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Regulatory capital is determined in accordance with the requirements of the Capital Requirements Directive prescribed in the UK by the Chris Barling Financial Services Authority FSA, and the Groups regulatory capital is divided into two tiers: Jonathan Bloomer - Tier 1 capital, which is the total of issued share capital, retained earnings and reserves created by appropriations of retained earnings, net Michael Evans of the book value of goodwill and other intangible assets: and Dharmash Mistry Stephen Lansdown - Tier 2 capital, which is unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of equity instruments held as available-for-sale.
Stephen Robertson The Groups objectives when managing capital are i to comply with the regulatory capital requirements set by the FSA: ii to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other COMPANY SECRETARY stakeholders: and iii to maintain a strong capital base to support the development of its business.
Judy Matthews All regulated entities within the Group are required to meet the Pillar 1 regulatory Capital Resources Requirements CRR set out in the AUDITOR Capital Requirements Directive the Directive.
The CRR is the higher of i the fixed overhead requirement and ii the sum of the credit Deloitte LLP, Bristol risk capital requirement and the market risk capital requirement.
The Group is also required to comply with the requirements of the Directive under Pillar 2 Operational Risk and Pillar 3 Disclosure in SOLICITORS respect of the Groups regulatory capital requirements.
The Directive requires continual assessment of the Groups risks in order to ensure Burges Salmon LLP, Bristol that the higher of Pillar 1 and 2 requirements is met, the objective being to ensure that the regulated firms have adequate capital to enable them to manage their risks.
The Group completes its assessment of regulatory capital requirements using its Individual Capital Adequacy PRINCIPAL BANKERS Assessment Process ICAAP under Pillar 2, which is a forward looking exercise that includes stress testing on major risks, such as a Lloyds TSB Bank plc, Bristol significant market downturn, and identifying mitigating action.
The ICAAP covers current as well as projected capital requirements, and is used to manage regulatory capital.
Under the requirements of Pillar 3, the Group is required to disclose regulatory capital information, and BROKERS has done so by making the disclosures available in the Groups website at http: www.
Barclays Numis Securities Limited All of the regulated firms maintained surplus regulated capital throughout the year.
The aggregated regulatory Pillar 1 capital surplus across the four regulated subsidiaries was approximately 22 million at 30 June 2012 2011: 46 million.
The regulated subsidiaries are REGISTRARS limited in the distributions that can be paid up to the parent by their individual capital requirements.
Capital adequacy and the use of Equiniti Limited regulatory capital are monitored by the Groups management.
REGISTERED OFFICE One College Square South Anchor Road Bristol BS1 5HL WEBSITE www.
co. uk COMPANY NUMBER 02122142 90 91 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
