Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Operational Risks Financial Risks Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Errors, breakdowns or security breaches in respect of the High level of resilience built into daily operations.
Liquidity risks Highly cash generative business.
Groups software or information technology systems IT performance, scalability and security are deemed top The Group must remain able to meet liabilities as they become Low working capital requirement.
Serious or prolonged breaches, errors or breakdowns in the priorities by the Board and are included in the IT Strategy.
due and be able to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding Group maintains a substantial surplus above regulatory and Groups software or IT systems must be avoided.
Large, experienced in-house team of IT professionals and as necessary.
Treasury management policy provides for the availability of liquid Internal procedures benchmarked against industry best practice.
Business continuity Critical applications and infrastructure mirrored across Bank default Only use banks with strong financial ratios where we do not The risk of disruption to the business as a result of IT or power primary and two secondary sites.
Given the current economic climate and in particular the believe the Government would allow them to fail.
failure, fire, flood, acts of terrorism, relocation problems and Business Continuity Plan produced in line with best practice unprecedented problems faced by banks, the Group must Deposits spread across several banks, with limits placed on each.
protect against the risk that a bank could fail.
Regular review and challenge of treasury policy by management.
Damage to the Groups reputation High level of internal controls including checks on new staff.
Interest rate risks Access to competitive interest rates due to large value of cash The risk of reputational damage from employee misconduct, Well trained staff.
Risk of decline in earnings due to a decline in interest rates.
failure to manage inside information or conflicts of interest and Strong compliance culture.
Regular fixed high interest cash offers available to clients.
fraud or improper practice must be controlled.
Key personnel risk Succession planning encouraged throughout Group via Key personnel must be recruited and retained to prevent a management and staff objectives.
material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of Success of the Group should attract high calibre candidates.
A continuous programme of SAYE and other share option schemes are in operation to incentivise staff and encourage retention.
Litigation or claims made against the Group High levels of Professional Indemnity Insurance cover.
The Group needs to protect against the risk of litigation Comprehensive internal review procedures for marketing from clients or third parties and actions taken by regulatory literature.
Reliance on third parties Due diligence forms part of the selection process for key Outsourced service providers must meet appropriate standards suppliers.
to protect the Group from the risk of regulatory sanctions and Ongoing review by our internal audit team of key business reputational damage.
Strategic risk Very experienced management team, with a highly successful Management must remain focused on appropriate strategies track record to date.
and implement the Groups strategy effectively.
Management has demonstrated an excellent understanding of the market and continues to monitor this effectively through regular dialogue with clients.
Performance of in-house managed funds Only manage Funds of Funds, divested equity management to Investment performance of the Hargreaves Lansdown Multifocus on core strength.
Manager funds needs to remain good relative to the market or Fund analysis focuses on stock selection skills of manager in absolute terms, or the Group may be vulnerable to outflows rather than basic performance analysis.
in those funds and a consequential reduction in revenues.
Multi-Manager funds well diversified at the underlying fund level as well as by number of funds.
Well established and proven investment process overseen by an Internal Investment Committee.
Our Funds of Funds give investors exposure to a broad range of underlying investments.
They are therefore less vulnerable to sector specific poor performance than specialised or focused funds.
26 27 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
