Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Retirement benefit costs Property, plant and equipment The Group operates a group self-invested personal pension plan for staff.
Payments to the defined contribution retirement benefit Plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is provided, scheme are charged as an expense as they fall due.
where material, on all tangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset evenly using a straight-line method over its estimated useful life as follows: Bonuses payable to employees The Group recognises a liability and an expense for staff bonuses where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice.
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment: Leasehold property tenants fixtures over the life of the lease Provisions Office equipment over 10 years Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will Computer equipment and software over 3 to 4 years be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Motor vehicles: over 4 years Provisions are recognised for future committed property lease payments when the Group receives no benefit from the property through The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the continuing usage and future receipts from any sub-letting arrangements are not in excess of the Groups future committed payments.
carrying value may not be recoverable.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit Leasing for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the Intangible assets excluding goodwill balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred Other intangible assets comprise computer software which is stated at cost less amortisation and any recognised impairment loss.
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary Amortisation is provided, where material, on all intangible fixed assets excluding goodwill at rates calculated to write off the cost or differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset evenly using a straight-line method over its estimated useful life as follows: of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Computer software: over 3 to 4 years Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except The carrying values of computer software are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not carrying value may not be recoverable.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference reverse in the foreseeable future.
between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent Website development design and content development costs are capitalised only to the extent that they lead to the creation of an that it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
enduring asset, which delivers benefits at least as great as the amount capitalised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is Share-based payments tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 July 2005.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
fair value excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups Dividend recognition estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised in the accounting period in which the dividends are declared by use of the BlackScholes model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for and paid, or if earlier, in the accounting period when the dividend is approved by the Companys shareholders at the Annual General the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Prior to 15 May 2007 the Companys shares Meeting.
were not listed on a stock exchange and therefore, in the absence of a readily available market price for the shares, the share price was based on the market value agreed with HM Revenue & Customs and share price volatility was estimated as the average of the volatility Financial instruments applying to a comparable group of listed companies.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
66 67 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
