Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Hargreaves Lansdown plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 whose shares Any gains or losses on sale of the Companys own shares held by the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust EBT are credited are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The address of the registered office is One College Square South, Anchor Road, Bristol directly to the EBT reserve and are treated as undistributable profits.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Business Review.
Non-current assets held for sale These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less Group operates.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the Basis of preparation asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which The consolidated financial statements of Hargreaves Lansdown plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Reporting Standards adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB together IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Companys Goodwill financial statements have been prepared on the same basis and as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no income Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the statement is presented for the Company.
The Companys profit after tax for the year was 109,378,295 2011: 87,897,000. identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate, or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
IFRS 7 amended Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 9 Financial Instruments On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS on 1 July 2005 has been retained IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities prior to 30 June 1997 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 1 amended Presentation of Items in Other Comprehensive Income Revenue recognition IAS 12 amended Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for services IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Revenue is primarily classified as IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements either recurring, transactional or other.
Recurring revenue principally comprises the revenue streams of renewal income, management IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures fees and interest income on client money, while transactional revenue principally comprises initial commission on stockbroking transactions.
Revenue is recognised as follows: Other than to expand certain disclosures within the financial statements, the directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards and interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
Recurring The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
Renewal income is earned from fund management groups and is recognised on an accruals basis calculated according to the level of The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
assets under the administration, or agency, of the Group.
Management fees are paid by clients and are recognised on an accruals basis calculated according to the level of certain assets where fees apply.
The interest income on client money balances is the net interest 2.
Significant accounting policies margin earned by the Group and is accrued on a time basis, according to the client money balances under administration and by reference to the effective interest rate applicable.
Accounting policies as shown below have been consistently applied throughout the current and prior financial year.
Transactional The Groups stockbroking and unit trust management subsidiaries earn initial commission on securities transactions entered into on Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its behalf of clients.
The commission earned is recorded in the accounts on the date of the transaction, as this is the date on which the subsidiaries made up to 30 June 2012.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating service is provided to the client and the Group becomes entitled to the income.
policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The Group also earns initial commission from third party providers on the set up of group pension schemes.
Initial commissions are The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective deemed to be earned at the policy inception date on those policies where there are only negligible ongoing services.
Where ongoing date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
services are provided, an appropriate proportion of the income is deferred over the relevant period.
Where such commission is received on an indemnity basis, a provision is made for clawbacks, if any, which would be due if the policy lapses during the indemnity period.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Other Principally represents the amount of fees receivable from the provision of funds library services, and is recognised on an accruals basis.
The Group and Company financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as discussed on page 46.
Investment revenue recognition Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable Operating profit assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are Operating profit is stated before investment revenue and finance costs.
recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
64 65 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
