Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Revenue Trade receivables Revenue represents commission receivable from financial services provided to clients, interest income on settlement accounts and Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are management fees charged to clients.
It relates to services provided in the UK and is stated net of value added tax.
An analysis of the recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
In accordance with market practice, certain Groups revenue is as follows: balances with clients, Stock Exchange member firms and other counterparties are included as debtors.
Market debtors and creditors Year ended Year ended are presented net where there is a legal right of offset.
30 June 2012 30 June 2011 000 000 Investments Revenue from services:- Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose Recurring income 192,609 161,240 terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, Transactional income 42,479 44,186 including transaction costs.
Other income 3,653 2,478 Total operating income 238,741 207,904 The Groups available-for-sale investments have been included at fair value where a fair value can be reliably calculated, with the Investment revenues note 8 2,229 1,496 revaluation gains and losses reflected in the investment revaluation reserve, as shown in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 60, until sale when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income statement.
If a fair value cannot be reliably Total revenue 240,970 209,400 calculated by reference to a quoted market price or other method of valuation, available-for-sale investments are included at cost where the directors believe that cost is not materially different to fair value, with a fair value adjustment recognised upon disposal of the investment.
Recurring income principally comprises renewal income, management fees and interest income on client money.
Transactional income Investments which are designated as being held at fair value through profit or loss are carried at fair value, being the quoted market principally comprises commission earned from stockbroking transactions.
Other income principally represents the amount of fees price of the listed investment, with any gain or loss reported within the income statement.
An investment is classified in this category if receivable from the provision of funds library services.
The policies adopted for the recognition of each significant revenue stream are it is held principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Cash and cash equivalents In previous periods the Groups revenue was analysed into the categories of fees and commission income, interest and similar Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily income and subscriptions and sundry charges.
This analysis has been changed in the current year to analyse revenue as recurring, convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Included within cash balances are transactional or other.
This change has been made as the directors believe the analysis set out above more appropriately reflects the amounts held on client settlement accounts as shown in note 17. nature of the revenue being earned and the key performance indicators monitored.
The policies for the recognition of each significant revenue stream and the total revenue recognised for each accounting period have not changed as a result of this reclassification.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Segment information equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
The Group is organised into three business segments, namely the Vantage Division, the Discretionary Division and the Third Party Other Trade payables Services Division.
This is based upon the Groups internal organisation and management structure and is the primary way in which the Chief Trade payables are measured at fair value which is equivalent to amortised cost.
In accordance with market practice, certain balances Operating Decision Maker CODM is provided with financial information.
The CODM has been identified as the Board of Executive Directors.
with clients, Stock Exchange member firms and other counterparties are included as creditors.
Market debtors and creditors are presented net where there is a legal right of offset.
The Vantage division represents all activities relating to the Vantage service, our direct to private investor platform.
The Discretionary Managed division is focused on the provision of managed services such as our Portfolio Management Service PMS 3.
Key sources of judgements and estimation uncertainty and range of Multi-Manager funds.
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported The Third Party Other Services division includes activities relating to the broking of third party investments and pensions, certificated amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and share dealing and other niche services such as currency, CFDs and spread betting.
In this division, clients investments are not assumptions, which are based on managements best judgement at the date of preparation of the financial statements, deviate from administered within the Group.
actual circumstances, the original estimates and assumptions will be modified as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
The areas where a higher degree of judgement or complexity arise, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant The Group segment contains items that are shared by the Group as a whole and cannot be reasonably allocated to other operating to the consolidated financial statements, are minimal and discussed below.
Share-based payments Segment expenses are those that are directly attributable to a segment together with the relevant portion of other expenses that can In determining the fair value of equity-settled share-based awards and the related charge to the income statement, the Group makes reasonably be allocated to the segment.
Gains or losses on the disposal of available-for-sale investments, investment income, interest assumptions about the future events and market conditions.
In particular, judgement must be formed as to the likely number of shares payable and tax are not allocated by segment.
that will vest, and the fair value of each award granted.
The fair value is determined using a valuation model which is dependent on future estimates, including the Groups future dividend policy, the timing with which the options will be exercised and the future Segment assets and liabilities include items that are directly attributable to a segment plus an allocation on a reasonable basis of volatility in the price of the Groups shares.
Different assumptions about these factors to those made by the Group could materially shared items.
Corporate assets and liabilities are not included in business segments and are thus unallocated.
At 30 June 2012 and affect the reported value of share-based payments.
2011, these comprise cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, tax-related and other assets or liabilities.
Consolidation adjustments relate to the elimination of inter-segment revenues, balances and investments in group subsidiaries required on consolidation.
68 69 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
