stAteMent oF DIReCtoRs ResPonsIBILItIes The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for the keeping of adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors have delegated responsibility to the Manager for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys page of the Managers website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The work carried out by the Auditor does not involve any consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed within the Directors, Manager and Advisers section confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and net return of the Company: and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board Julian Cazalet 27 February 2013 Notes The following notes relate to financial statements published on a website and are not included in the printed version of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: The maintenance and integrity of the Herald Investment Management Limited website is the responsibility of Herald Investment Management Limited: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdiction.
