Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited We have audited the Group financial statements the financial Opinion on Financial Statements statements of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited the In our opinion the financial statements: Company for the year ended 31 March 2012 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders at 31 March 2012 and of the Groups profit for the year then Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related ended: notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
Standards as adopted by the EU: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. in accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we Matters on which we are required to report might state to the Companys members those matters we are by exception required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and where the Companies Guernsey Law 2008 requires us to report the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this to you if, in our opinion: report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Company has not kept proper accounting records, or Respective Responsibilities of Directors the financial statements are not in agreement with the and Auditor accounting records: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors we have not received all the information and explanations, Responsibilities set out on page 52, the directors are which to the best of our knowledge and belief are necessary responsible for the preparation of the financial statements for the purpose of our audit.
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial We have nothing to report with respect to the following: statements in accordance with applicable law and International Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Standards for Auditors.
Governance Code specified for our review.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Steven D. Stormonth Statements For and on behalf of KPMG Channel Islands Limited Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 20 New Street and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give St Peter Port reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Guernsey from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Channel Islands error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting GY1 4AN policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: 22 May 2012 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
62 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
