Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Report Directors Responsibility Statement and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and regulations.
The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 requires the Directors to the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair law they have elected to prepare the financial statements in view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards loss of the Company and Group included in the consolidation as adopted by the EU and applicable law.
as a whole: and the Chairmans Statement and Report of the Directors The financial statements are required by law to give a true include a fair review of the development and performance and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of of the business and the position of the Company and Group the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
included in the consolidation taken as a whole together In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties required to: that it faces.
Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: Disclosure of Information to the Auditors Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this prudent: Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys State whether applicable accounting standards have been auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware explained in the financial statements: and of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Auditors The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting KPMG Channel Islands Limited have expressed their willingness records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time to continue in ofce as auditors and a resolution proposing their the financial position of the Company and to enable them to re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
They have a general responsibility for By order of the Board taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard Authorised signatory the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and Dexion Capital Guernsey Ltd other irregularities.
Company Secretary 22 May 2012 Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Registered Ofce: responsible for preparing a Directors Report and Corporate 1 Le Truchot Governance Statement that comply with Company law and St Peter Port regulations.
Guernsey Channel Islands GY1 1WD 52 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
