Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 1.
Reporting Entity HICL Infrastructure Company Limited the Company is a The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely company domiciled in Guernsey, Channel Islands, whose to affect its future development, performance and position are shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The set out in the Investment Advisers Report on pages 15 to 24. consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity the year ended 31 March 2012 comprise the Company and its position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial subsidiaries together referred to as the Consolidated Group.
In addition, Notes 1 to 4 and 21 to The Consolidated Group invests in infrastructure projects in the 22 of the financial statements include the Groups objectives, UK, Canada and Europe.
policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments Of the Consolidated Groups portfolio of 70 investments at and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and 31 March 2012, 50 have been accounted for as investments liquidity risk.
the Entity Investments in accordance with the accounting policies set out in parts b and d of Note 2.
The 20 remaining The Group has considerable financial resources together with investments are deemed to be subsidiaries of the Company the long - term contracts with various public sector customers Operating Subsidiaries, and are therefore treated as business and suppliers across a range of infrastructure projects.
As a combinations as described in parts b and c of Note 2.
Certain consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed items of the accounting policies apply only to the Operating to manage its business risks successfully despite the continuing Subsidiaries.
Where applicable, this is noted in the relevant uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence 2.
Key Accounting Policies for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the a Basis of Preparation going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 22 May 2012.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are The consolidated financial statements which give a true and recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the fair view have been prepared in compliance with the Companies revision affects only that year or in the period of the revision Guernsey Law 2008 and in accordance with International and future periods if the revision affects both current and future Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the periods.
Note 3 shows critical accounting judgements, estimates European Union EU using the historical cost basis, except and assumptions.
that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair values: derivative financial instruments and financial Supplementary information has been provided analysing the instruments classied at fair value through profit or loss.
income statement between those items of a revenue nature The accounting policies have been applied consistently.
The and those of a capital nature, in order to better reect the consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, Consolidated Groups activities as an investment company.
which is the Companys functional currency.
Those items of income and expenditure which relate to the interest and dividend yield of investments and annual operating The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS and interest expenditure are shown as revenue.
Those items as adopted by the EU, requires the Directors and advisers to of income and expenditure which arise from changes in the fair make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the value of investments, foreign exchange movements, finance application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and receivables and derivative financial instruments are recognised liabilities, income and expense.
The estimates and associated as capital.
assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the Standards adopted early by the Consolidated Group circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the During the year and the prior year no new standards were judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that adopted early by the Consolidated Group.
are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 67 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Key Accounting Policies continued New standards effective for the current year The following standards which have been applied in this years Associates are those entities over which the Company has financial statements are: significant inuence as dened in IAS 28 Investments in Associates.
By virtue of the Companys status as an investment Amendments to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based fund and the exemption provided by IAS 28.1, investments Payment Transactions claries accounting for group cashin such entities are designated upon initial recognition to be settled share-based payment transactions.
accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures the revised Joint ventures are those entities over which the Company has standard has simplied the denition of a related party and joint control as dened by IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
By virtue of the Companys status as an investment fund and the exemption provided by IAS 31.1, investments in such entities are IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity designated upon initial recognition to be accounted for at fair Instruments addresses the accounting by an entity when the value through profit or loss.
terms of a financial liability are renegotiated and result in the entity issuing equity instruments to a creditor to extinguish Intra-Group receivables, liabilities, revenue and expenses are all or part of the financial liability.
eliminated in their entirety when preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Gains that arise from intra-group Improvements to IFRSs 2010 the IASB published transactions and that are unrealised from the standpoint of the amendments to various standards with various effective dates Consolidated Group on the balance sheet date are eliminated on 6 May 2010.
The amendments are effective for annual in their entirety.
Unrealised losses on intra-group transactions periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010 or 1 January 2012. are also eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, to the The 2010 improvements contains eleven amendments to six extent that the loss does not correspond to an impairment loss.
standards and to one interpretation and is the result of the IASBs third annual improvements project AIP.
c Acquisition of Subsidiaries Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition Standards not yet applied method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which As at 31 March 2012 there were no standards applicable to control is transferred to the Consolidated Group.
Control is the the Consolidated Group, which have not been applied in this power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity financial information, were in issue and endorsed by the EU but so as to obtain benets from its activities.
In assessing control, not yet effective.
the Consolidated Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that currently are exercisable.
b Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements of the Consolidated The Consolidated Group measures goodwill at the acquisition Group include the financial statements of the Company and its date as: subsidiaries up to 31 March 2012.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from the acquiree: plus if the business combination is achieved its activities as dened in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the Financial Statements.
The financial statements of subsidiaries acquiree: less are included in the consolidated financial statements on a line by line basis from the date that control commences until the date the net recognised amount generally fair value of the control ceases.
Sixteen of the twenty Operating Subsidiaries identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
have a different statutory financial reporting date to the Company, being 31 December.
Their results for the year to 31 The consideration transferred does not include amounts related March are included by reference to management accounts.
to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are generally recognised in the profit and loss.
68 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated methodology, with changes recognised in the income statement with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Consolidated as gains loss on finance receivables as a capital item.
Group incurs in conjunction with a business combination are Finance receivables are designated at fair value through expensed as incurred.
profit or loss because it eliminates or signicantly reduces d Financial Instruments the accounting mismatch that would result from fair value movements in interest rate swaps.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Consolidated Groups balance sheet when the group becomes a Loans and borrowings party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value of the assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash consideration received, less transaction costs.
Subsequent ows from the instrument expire or the asset is transferred and to initial recognition, borrowings are stated at amortised cost the transfer qualies for derecognition in accordance with IAS 39 with any difference between cost and redemption value being Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
recognised in the income statement over the period of the i Non-derivative financial instruments borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in Other equity and debt securities, finance receivables, trade and other Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings amortised cost using the effective interest method less any and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at ii Derivative financial instruments fair value including directly attributable transaction costs, except for financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or The Operating Subsidiaries hold derivative financial instruments loss.
Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative financial to mitigate their interest rate risk and ination rate risk instruments are measured as described below.
All derivatives are recognised initially at fair value with attributable transaction costs recognised in the income Investments in equity and debt securities statement as incurred.
Thereafter, derivatives are measured Entity Investments investments in the equity and loanstock at fair value with changes recognised in the income statement of entities engaged in infrastructure activities which are as part of finance costs or income.
Fair value is based on price not classied as subsidiaries of the Consolidated Group quotations from financial institutions active in the relevant are designated at fair value through profit or loss since the market.
The Consolidated Group has not used hedge accounting.
Consolidated Group manages these investments and makes iii Fair values purchase and sale decisions based on their fair value.
The fair values are determined using the income approach, The initial difference between the transaction price and the except for derivative financial instruments, which discounts the fair value, derived from using the discounted cash ows expected cash ows attributable to each asset at an appropriate methodology at the date of acquisition, is recognised only when rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the appropriate observable market data indicates there is a change in a factor discount rate, regard is had to risk free rates, the specic risks of that market participants would consider in setting the price of each investment and the evidence of recent transactions.
After initial recognition, investments at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value with iv Effective interest changes recognised in the income statement.
The effective interest rate is that rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the Finance receivables expected life of the financial instrument to the relevant assets Finance receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, finance receivables are measured at fair value using the discounted cash ows HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 69 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Key Accounting Policies continued e Intangible Assets Intangible assets are recognised as part of a business impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets combination if they are reliably measurable and separable from carrying amount after the reversal does not exceed the amount the acquired entity or give rise to other contractual legal rights.
that would have been determined, net of applicable depreciation, Only one category of intangible asset has been recognised as if no impairment loss had been recognised.
part of a business combination to date, being the fair value of g Share Capital and Share Premium service concessions in Operating Subsidiaries as at the date of Ordinary and C Shares are classied as equity.
These assets are being amortised over the life of the attributable to the issue of new shares or associated with the concessions concerned on a straight-line basis.
establishment of the Company that would otherwise have The accounting policies for intangible assets arising under IFRIC been avoided are written-off against the balance of the share 12 are disclosed in part k of this Note.
f Impairment h Cash and Cash Equivalents i Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances, deposits Financial assets, other than those at fair value through profit or held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance investments with original maturities of three months or less.
A financial asset is considered to be impaired if Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand are included as a objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the negative effect on the estimated future cash ows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured i Non-Controlling Interests at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its The interest of non-controlling shareholders is stated at the carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated future non-controlling shareholders proportion of the fair values cash ows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an losses applicable to the non-controlling interest in excess of individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed the carrying value of the non-controlling interest are allocated collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
against the interest of the parent, except to the extent that the All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
non-controlling shareholder has both a binding obligation and An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related the ability to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost the j Revenue reversal is recognised in the income statement.
i Services revenue ii Non-financial assets Services revenue in accordance with IFRIC 12, which relates The carrying amounts of the Consolidated Groups non-financial solely to the Operating Subsidiaries, is comprised of the assets are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether following components: there is any evidence of impairment.
If any such indication exists, revenues from the provision of facilities management services the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss to Private Finance Initiative or Public Private Partnerships is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying PFI PPP projects calculated as the fair value of services amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
provided see Note k i : The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its net the fair value of the consideration receivable on construction selling price and its value in use.
The value in use is determined and upgrade services: as the net present value of the future cash ows expected to be derived from the asset, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate availability fees and usage fees on PFI PPP projects where the that reects current market assessments of the time value of principal asset is accounted for as an intangible asset see money and the risks specic to the asset.
Note k ii : and An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in third party revenues on PFI PPP projects calculated as the the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An fair value of services provided.
70 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ii Gains on finance receivables Fees and other operating income are recognised when the Consolidated Groups rights to receive payment have been Gains on finance receivables relate solely to the Operating established.
Capital Revenue Gains on investments included in the capital category arise Gains on finance receivables included in the revenue category from the movement in the fair value of the Entity Investments includes interest, dividends and other operating income relating excluding the movements shown as revenue above.
to finance receivables designated at fair value through profit or loss.
k Service Concessions Interest income arising on finance receivables at fair value In accordance with IFRIC 12 and the various provisions of through profit or loss is recognised in the income statement IFRS, the Consolidated Group has determined the appropriate as it accrues, using the effective interest rate of the instrument treatment of the principal assets of, and income streams from, concerned.
PPP and similar contracts within the Operating Subsidiaries.
Results of all service concessions which fall within the scope Dividends are recognised when the Consolidated Groups rights of IFRIC 12 conform to the following policies depending on the to receive payment have been established.
That part of the rights to consideration under the service concessions: dividend which has already been recognised in the fair value of finance receivable is deducted from the carrying amount of the i Service concessions treated as financial assets relevant finance receivable.
Service concessions are determined to give rise to finance receivables where the Consolidated Group, as operator, has Fees and other operating income are recognised when the an unconditional contractual right to receive cash or another Consolidated Groups rights to receive payment have been financial asset from or at the direction of the grantor.
Revenue is recognised by allocating a proportion of total cash Capital receivable to construction income and service income.
The Gains on finance receivables included in the capital category consideration received will be allocated by reference to the arise from the movement in the fair value of the finance relative fair value of the services delivered, when the amounts receivables excluding the movements shown as revenue above.
iii Gains on investments During the construction phase, revenue is recognised at cost, Gains on investments relates solely to the Entity Investments.
plus attributable profit to the extent that this is reasonably certain, in accordance with IAS 11.
Costs for this purpose include Revenue valuation of all work done by subcontractors whether certied or Gains on investments included in the revenue category not, and all overheads other than those relating to the general includes interest, dividends and other operating income relating administration of the relevant companies.
During the operational stage, cash received in respect of the Interest income arising on Entity Investments is recognised in service concessions is allocated to services revenue see part the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest j i of this Note based on its fair value, with the remainder being rate of the instrument concerned as calculated at the acquisition allocated between capital repayment and interest income using or origination date.
the effective interest method see part j ii of this Note.
Dividends are recognised when the Consolidated Groups rights The finance receivables are designated as at fair value through to receive payment have been established.
That part of the profit or loss in accordance with part d of this Note.
The fair dividend which has already been recognised in the fair value values of the finance receivables are determined in a similar of investments is deducted from the carrying amount of the manner to that described in part d i, with changes recognised relevant investment.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 71 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 2.
Key Accounting Policies continued k Service Concessions continued ii Service concessions treated as intangible assets Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to the temporary differences when they reverse, based Service concessions are determined to give rise to intangible on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at assets to the extent the Consolidated Group, as operator, has the reporting date.
For the UK Operating Subsidiaries deferred a contractual right to charge users of the public services.
The tax is measured at UK tax rates.
intangible asset represents the construction cost of assets which give rise to the contractual right to charge.
The intangible asset A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is is amortised to estimated residual value over the remaining life probable that future taxable profits will be available against of the service concession and tested each year for impairment.
which temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the Revenue arising in respect of these service concessions is extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit recognised when the services are delivered.
l Borrowing Costs n Foreign Exchange Gains and Losses Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying Transactions entered into by group entities in a currency other assets are capitalised during the period of time that is required than their functional currency are recorded at the rates ruling to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use.
Other when the transactions occur.
Foreign currency monetary borrowing costs are expensed.
assets and liabilities are translated at the rates ruling at m Income Tax the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of unsettled monetary assets and liabilities are Under the current system of taxation in Guernsey, the Company recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement itself is exempt from paying taxes on income, profits or capital as capital amounts.
The Companys Operating Subsidiaries are UK based and are therefore subject to UK tax legislation.
Dividend and interest o Segmental Reporting income received by the Consolidated Group may be subject to The Chief Operating Decision Maker the CODM is of the withholding tax imposed in the country of origin of such income, opinion that the Group is engaged in a single segment of but all such tax is currently recoverable.
business, being investment in infrastructure which is currently Income tax on the profit for the year of the Operating predominately in private finance initiatives and public private Subsidiaries comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is partnership companies in one geographical area, the the tax payable on the taxable income for the year.
is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method on The financial information used by the CODM to allocate temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets resources and manage the group presents the business as a and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts single segment and is prepared on an Investment basis.
The used for taxation purposes, except for differences arising on: Investment basis deconsolidates the subsidiary investments.
the initial recognition of goodwill: A reconciliation of the consolidated financial statements to pro-forma statements on an Investment basis is shown within the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction the Financial Results of the annual report.
which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting or taxable profit: and p Expenses All expenses and the profit share of the General Partner are investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities accounted for on an accruals basis.
The Consolidated Groups where the group is able to control the timing of the reversal investment management and administration fees, finance of the difference and it is probable that the difference will not costs including interest on long-term borrowings and all reverse in the foreseeable future.
other expenses are charged through the consolidated income statement.
72 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 q Dividends Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable.
By virtue of the Companys status as an investment fund and In the case of interim dividends, this is when declared by the the exemption provided by IAS 28.1 and IAS 31.1, investments directors.
In the case of final dividends, this is when approved in associates and joint ventures are designated upon initial by the shareholders at the AGM.
For scrip dividends where the recognition to be accounted for at fair value through profit Company issues shares with an equal value to the cash dividend or loss.
amount as an alternative to the cash dividend a credit to equity Fair values for those investments for which a market quote is recognised when the shares are issued.
is not available are determined using the income approach r Provisions which discounts the expected cash ows at the appropriate rate.
In determining the discount rate, regard is had to risk free Provisions are recognised when the Consolidated Group has a rates, specic risks and the evidence of recent transactions.
present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable The Directors have satisfied themselves that the PFI PPP P3 that the Consolidated Group will be required to settle that investments share the same investment characteristics obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best and as such constitute a single asset class for IFRS 7 estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation disclosure purposes.
at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
The carrying amount of the PFI PPP P3 investments would be an estimated 13.1 million higher or 12.7 million lower 2011: s Statement of Compliance 11.2 million higher or 10.8 million lower if the discount rate Pursuant to the Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey used in the discounted cash ow analysis were to differ by 25 Law, 1987 the Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended basis points from that used in the fair value calculation.
As an authorised scheme, the Company is weighted average discount rate for the PFI PPP P3 portfolio subject to certain ongoing obligations to the Guernsey Financial as at 31 March 2012 was 8.6% 2011: 8.7%.
The carrying amount of the PFI PPP P3 investments would be an estimated 9.0 million higher or 8.3 million lower 2011: 3.
Critical accounting judgements, 6.8 million higher or 6.5 million lower if the ination rate estimates and assumptions used in the discounted cash ow analysis were to differ by 25 basis points from that used in the fair value calculation.
The UK The preparation of financial statements in accordance with ination rate assumed from 31 March 2012 is 2.75% IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates 2011: 2.75%.
and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect reported amounts.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions that have The carrying amount of the PFI PPP P3 investments would be a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying an estimated 3.6 million higher or 3.6 million lower 2011: amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year 2.8 million higher or 2.7 million lower if the deposit rates are outlined below.
used in the discounted cash ow analysis were to differ by 25 basis points from that used in the fair value calculation.
The i Investments at fair value through profit or loss UK deposit rates assumed for all future periods from 31 March The Consolidated Group has a greater than 50% shareholding 2012 were 1% to March 2015 and 3.75% thereafter 2011: 1% to in certain entities see Note 15, where in the opinion of the March 2013 and 4% thereafter.
Directors it is unable to govern the financial and operating policies of the entities by virtue of agreements with the other ii Finance at fair value through profit or loss shareholder s. These entities are consequently not treated as Fair values are determined using the income approach which subsidiaries, and instead they are accounted for as financial discounts the expected cash ows at the appropriate rate.
In assets at fair value through profit or loss, as set out in determining the discount rate, regard is had to risk free rates, Note 2 b. specic risks and the evidence of recent transactions.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 3.
Financial Instruments estimates and assumptions continued Financial Risk Management Financial risk is managed by the group on an investment basis, ii Finance at fair value through profit or loss continued so for the purposes of this Note, the group comprises the The carrying amount of finance receivables would be an Company, its two wholly-owned Luxembourg subsidiaries HICL estimated 42.9 million higher or 41.3 million lower 2011: Infrastructure 1 SARL and HICL Infrastructure 2 SARL and the 17.4 million higher or 16.8 million lower if the discount rate English Limited Partnership Infrastructure Investments Limited used in the discounted cash ow analysis were to differ by 25 Partnership IILP, and is referred to as the Investment basis points from that used in the fair value calculation.
The objective of the Investment Groups financial risk discount rates at 31 March 2012 were between 4.2% and 7.5% management is to manage and control the risk exposures of 2011: between 5.2% and 6.6%.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for overseeing the management of financial risks, iii IFRIC 12 however the review and management of financial risks are Service concessions fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 where the delegated to the Investment Adviser and the Operator of the grantor controls or regulates what services the operator must group which has documented procedures designed to identify, provide with the infrastructure, to whom it must provide them, monitor and manage the financial risks to which the Investment and the price: and the grantor controls, through ownership, Group is exposed.
This Note presents information about the beneficial entitlement or otherwise, any significant residual groups exposure to financial risks, its objectives, policies and interest in the infrastructure at the end of the service agreement.
processes for managing risk and the groups management of its Each subsidiary has been assessed to determine whether they financial resources.
fall within the scope of IFRIC 12.
Following this review it was determined that all twenty subsidiaries controlled at the year The Investment Group owns a portfolio of investments end fall within this scope.
Service concessions are determined predominantly in the subordinated loanstock and ordinary to be finance receivables where the operator has a contractual equity of project finance companies.
These companies are right to receive cash or another financial asset from or at the structured at the outset to minimise financial risks where direction of the grantor.
Alternatively, service concessions are possible, and the Investment Adviser and Operator primarily determined to be intangible assets to the extent the operator focus their risk management on the direct financial risks of has a contractual right to charge users of the public services.
acquiring and holding the portfolio but continue to monitor the indirect financial risks of the underlying projects through iv Intangible assets representation, where appropriate, on the Boards of the project Intangible assets represent fair value of service concessions for companies and the receipt of regular financial and operational operating subsidiary projects recognised on acquisition, which performance reports.
are primarily attributable to the service portion of the project contracts, and intangible assets recognised under IFRIC 12.
Interest Rate Risk Fair values are determined using the income approach which The Investment Group invests in subordinated loanstock of discounts the expected cash ows attributable to the services project companies, usually with xed interest rate coupons.
portion of the service concessions acquired at an appropriate Where oating rate debt is owned the primary risk is that the rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the appropriate Consolidated Groups cash ows will be subject to variation discount rate, regard is had to risk free rates depending upon changes to base interest rates.
The portfolios and the specic risks of each project.
cash ows are continually monitored and reforecasted both over the near future five year time horizon and the long-term over whole period of projects concessions to analyse the cash ow returns from investments.
The Investment Group has made limited use of borrowings to finance the acquisition of investments and the forecasts are used to monitor the impact of changes in borrowing rates against cash ow returns from investments as increases in borrowing rates will reduce net interest margins.
74 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 The groups policy is to ensure that interest rates are sufciently movements in interest rates, market prices and the competition hedged to protect the groups net interest margins from for such assets.
significant uctuations when entering into material medium Currency Risk long term borrowings.
This includes engaging in interest rate swaps or other interest rate derivative contracts.
The projects in which the group invests all conduct their business and pay interest, dividends and principal in sterling other than its The Investment Group has an indirect exposure to changes in investments in Dutch High Speed Rail, Cork School of Music and interest rates through its investment in project companies, Irish Grouped Schools projects comprising 10% of the portfolio which are nanced by senior debt.
Senior debt nancing of by value, which conducts its business and pays its interest, project companies is generally either through oating rate dividends and principal in Euros and its investments in North debt, xed rate bonds or index linked bonds.
Where senior West Anthony Henday P3 and Kicking Horse Canyon P3 projects debt is oating rate, the projects typically have concession comprising 3% of the portfolio by value, which conduct their length hedging arrangements in place, which are monitored by business and pay interest, dividends and principal in Canadian the project companies managers, finance parties and boards dollars.
The group monitors its foreign exchange exposures of directors.
Floating rate debt is hedged using xed oating using its near term and long-term cash ow forecasts.
Its policy interest rate swaps.
is to use foreign exchange hedging to provide protection to the level of sterling distributions that the Investment Group aims to The finance costs in the income statement would be an pay over the medium term, where considered appropriate.
This estimated 18.5 million higher or 18.5 million lower 2011: may involve the use of forward exchange and other currency 8.4 million higher or 8.4 million lower if the interest rates hedging contracts, as well as the use of Euro, Canadian and other used in the fair value calculation of the interest rate swaps were currency denominated borrowings.
The Investment Group at 31 to differ by 25 basis points.
March 2012 hedged its currency exposure through borrowing Euros and Canadian dollars.
Ination Risk The groups project companies are generally structured so that Credit Risk contractual income and costs are either wholly or partially Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty of the group will be linked to specic ination where possible to minimise the risks unable or unwilling to meet a commitment that it has entered of mismatch between income and costs due to movements in into with the group.
The Investment Groups overall cashows are estimated to partially vary with ination and consequently the The groups key direct counterparties are the project companies portfolio valuation will vary with ination.
The effects of these in which it makes investments.
The Investment Groups near ination changes do not always immediately ow through to term cash ow forecasts are used to monitor the timing of the Investment Groups cashows, particularly where a projects cash receipts from project counterparties.
Underlying the cash loanstock debt carries a xed coupon and the ination changes ow forecast are project company cash ow models, which ow through by way of changes to dividends in future periods.
are regularly updated by project companies and provided to The sensitivity of the portfolio valuation is shown in Note 3 i. the Operator, for the purposes of demonstrating the projects ability to pay interest and dividends based on a set of detailed The finance costs in the income statement would be an assumptions.
Many of the Investment Groups investment and estimated 14.9 million higher or 14.9 million lower 2011: subsidiary entities generally receive revenue from government 6.4 million higher or 6.4 million lower if the RPI rates used in departments, and public sector or local authority clients.
the fair value calculation of the ination swaps were to differ by Therefore a significant portion of the groups investments 25 basis points.
revenue is with counterparties of good financial standing.
Market Risk The group is also reliant on the projects subcontractors Returns from the Investment Groups investments are affected continuing to perform their service delivery obligations such that by the price at which they are acquired.
The value of these revenues to projects are not disrupted.
The Investment Adviser investments will be a function of the discounted value of their has a subcontractor counterparty monitoring procedure in place.
expected future cash ows, and as such will vary with, inter alia, HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 75 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 4.
Financial Instruments continued Credit Risk continued Liquidity Risk The credit standing of subcontractors is reviewed, and the risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet of default estimated for each significant counterparty position.
its financial obligations as these fall due.
The groups approach Monitoring is ongoing, and period end positions are reported to to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will the Board on a quarterly basis.
The Investment Groups largest have sufficient financial resources and liquidity to meets its credit risk exposure to a project at 31 March 2012 was to the liabilities when due.
The group ensures it maintains adequate Home Ofce project 10% of portfolio by value and the largest reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities by subcontractor counterparty risk exposure was to subsidiaries continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash ows and of the Bouygues group which provided facilities management matching the maturity proles of financial assets and liabilities.
services in respect of 17% of the portfolio by value.
The Investment Groups investments are predominantly funded by share capital and medium term debt funding.
The Consolidated Group is subject to credit risk on its loans, receivables, cash and deposits.
The Consolidated Groups cash The Investment Groups investments are generally in private and deposits are held with a variety of well known banks.
The companies in which there is no listed market and therefore such credit quality of loans and receivables within the investment investment would take time to realise and there is no assurance portfolio is based on the financial performance of the individual that the valuations placed on the investments would be achieved portfolio companies.
For those assets that are not past due, from any such sale process.
it is believed that the risk of default is small and capital The Investment Groups investments have borrowings which repayments and interest payments will be made in accordance rank senior to the Investment Groups own investments into with the agreed terms and conditions of the investment.
This senior debt is structured such that, value adjustments, or loan impairments, are made when the under normal operating conditions, it will be repaid within the net present value of the future cash ows predicted to arise expected life of the projects.
Debt raised by the investment from the asset, discounted using the effective interest rate companies from third parties is without recourse to the method, implies non-recovery of all or part of the Groups loan Investment Group.
In these cases a loan impairment is recorded equal to the valuation shortfall.
The Investment Groups investments may include obligations to make future investment amounts.
These obligations will As at 31 March 2012, the ageing of trade receivables past due typically be supported by standby letters of credit, issued by but not impaired were as follows: the Investment Groups bankers in favour of the senior lenders to the investment companies.
Such subscription obligations are 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 met from the Investment Groups cash resources when they fall million million due.
Such obligations totalled Nil 2011: 47.0 million at the 3 to 6 months due 0.4 - year end.
Over 6 months due 0.6 0.5 At 31 March 2012 the Investment Group currently had a 1.0 0.5 committed 200 million five year revolving bank facility expiring in December 2012 which was secured over all assets of the At 31 March 2012 there were no loans and other receivables Consolidated Group.
The Investment Group negotiated and signed a new 150 million bank facility on 28 February 2012 to considered past due or impaired 2011: Nil for the ensure the Investment Group can meet its foreseeable funding Consolidated Group.
requirements, and to provide significant headroom available to The Consolidated Groups maximum exposure to credit risk support acquisitions, should suitable opportunities be identied over financial assets is the carrying value of those assets in and executed.
Included within the Consolidated Groups balance the balance sheet.
The Consolidated Group does not hold any sheet as at 31 March 2012 are capitalised arrangement fees of collateral as security.
76 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 The table below analyses the Consolidated Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts in the table are the contracted undiscounted cashows including the impact of netting agreements.
Less than 1 year Between 1 and 2 years Between 2 and 5 years More than 5 years 31 March 2012 million million million million Bank borrowings 165.3 21.4 70.0 649.2 Trade and other payables 48.1 - - - Interest on bank borrowings 42.3 40.9 119.6 386.1 Other loans and borrowings 19.8 18.6 72.4 752.5 Interest on other loans and borrowings 19.4 19.2 60.3 234.0 Other financial liabilities 31.9 30.6 59.3 163.9 Total 326.8 130.7 381.6 2,185.7 Less than 1 year Between 1 and 2 years Between 2 and 5 years More than 5 years 31 March 2011 million million million million Bank borrowings 17.7 17.4 45.4 289.1 Trade and other payables 28.9 - - - Interest on bank borrowings 22.9 21.8 59.2 172.1 Other loans and borrowings 11.8 10.7 35.1 220.6 Interest on other loans and borrowings 13.6 13.4 38.7 132.1 Other financial liabilities 16.7 13.2 18.5 66.6 Total 111.6 76.5 196.9 880.5 Capital Management The Investment Group utilised a 200 million revolving acquisition facility of which 58.7 million was undrawn at year The Investment Group makes prudent use of its leverage.
Further equity raisings are considered when debt drawings the Articles the Investment Groups outstanding borrowings, are at an appropriate level.
The proceeds from the share including any financial guarantees to support outstanding issues are used to repay debt and to fund future investment subscription obligations but excluding internal Investment commitments.
In March the Company raised 250 million before Group borrowings of the Investment Groups underlying costs in a C Share equity capital raising, the net proceeds of investments, are limited to 50% of the Adjusted Gross Asset which were on deposit at year end prior to repayment of the Value of its investments and cash balances at any time.
Investment Groups 200 million revolving facility in April 2012.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 77 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 4.
Financial Instruments continued Capital Management continued The ratio of the Investment Groups debt to Adjusted Gross Asset Value at the end of the year was as follows: 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Outstanding drawings Bank borrowings 141.3 - Letter of credit facility - 46.7 141.3 46.7 Adjusted Gross Asset Value Portfolio valuation 902.0 673.1 Cash and cash equivalents 267.9 54.7 1,169.9 727.8 Borrowing concentration 12.1% 6.4% Non-Derivative Financial Instruments From time to time the Company issues its own shares to the The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is market: the timing of these purchases depends on market based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in In order to assist in the narrowing of any discount to the Net an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
Asset Value at which the Ordinary Shares may trade from time The Consolidated Group uses the income approach which to time, the Company may, at the sole discretion discounts the expected cash ows attributable to each asset at of the Directors: an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the discount rate, regard is had to risk free rates, the specic risks of make market purchases of up to 14.99% per annum of its each investment and the evidence of recent transactions.
issued Ordinary Shares: and Derivative Financial Instruments make tender offers for the Ordinary Shares.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
There were no changes in the Investment Groups approach to The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the capital management during the year.
Consolidated Group is the current bid price.
Note 2 discloses Fair Value Estimation the methods used in determining fair values on a specic asset liability basis.
Where applicable, further information about the The following summarises the significant methods and assumptions used in determining fair value is disclosed in the assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial Notes specic to that asset or liability.
instruments: 78 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Classication of Financial Instruments 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Financial assets Designated at fair value through profit or loss Investment in Entity Investments 524.3 426.0 Operating Subsidiaries financial assets 1,770.6 779.1 Financial assets at fair value 2,294.9 1,205.1 Loans and receivables Trade and other receivables 29.2 15.7 Cash and cash equivalents 373.7 114.9 Financial assets at amortised cost 402.9 130.6 Financial liabilities Designated at fair value through profit or loss Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives 259.9 82.8 Financial liabilities at fair value 259.9 82.8 At amortised cost Trade and other payables Loans and borrowings 48.1 28.9 1,601.3 647.7 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 1,649.4 676.6 Fair Value Hierarchy The Directors believe that the carrying values of all financial The fair value hierarchy is dened as follows: instruments, except the xed rate and RPI-linked borrowings, Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for are not materially different to their fair values.
See Note 21 for identical assets or liabilities the comparison between fair values and the carrying values of the xed rate and RPI-linked borrowings.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly Secured loans and borrowings totalling 1,576.6 million 2011: i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices 623.6 million are secured by xed and or oating charges over the Consolidated Groups financial assets.
The terms of these Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on charges are generally of a form that are usual and customary to observable market data unobservable inputs.
project finance borrowing and lending activities.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 4.
Financial Instruments continued Fair Value Hierarchy continued 31 March 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total million million million million Investments at fair value through profit or loss Note 15 - - 524.3 524.3 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss Note 17 - - 1,770.6 1,770.6 - 2,294.9 2,294.9 Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives Note 22 - 259.9 - 259.9 259.9 - 259.9 - 31 March 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total million million million million Investments at fair value through profit or loss Note 15 29.7 - 396.3 426.0 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss Note 17 - - 779.1 779.1 29.7 - 1,175.4 1,205.1 Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives Note 22 - 82.8 - 82.8 - 82.8 - 82.8 There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 during the year.
year are disclosed in Notes 15 and 17 respectively.
Sensitivity analyses disclosing the effect of different economic assumptions Reconciliations of Level 3 assets from beginning balances to on the fair value of the Level 3 assets are disclosed in Note 3. the ending balances, disclosing separately changes during the 5.
Services Revenue For year ended For year ended 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Service revenue 140.7 89.2 Construction revenue 8.5 31.2 Other revenue 0.7 0.8 149.9 121.2 80 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Revenue from 3 customers which each represent more than All services revenue is derived from customers domiciled in the 10% of the Consolidated Groups total revenues provide United Kingdom.
approximately 62.9 million of revenue 2011: 101.2 million Construction revenue includes 7.7 million 2011: 27.7 million from 5 customers each representing more than 10% of the of capital variations funded by the Ministry of Defence Consolidated Groups total revenues.
The Consolidated Group and shareholders on the Helicopter Training project.
has treated each Government entity and or department as a separate customer.
Gains on Investments For year ended 31 March 2012 For year ended 31 March 2011 Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total million million million million million million Interest from investments 21.2 21.2 18.8 - 18.8 Dividend income from investments 6.7 - 6.7 5.8 - 5.8 Fees and other operating income 1.4 - 1.4 1.5 - 1.5 Gains on valuation Note 15 - 20.8 20.8 - 9.7 9.7 29.3 20.8 50.1 26.1 9.7 35.8 Included within the gain on valuation is an unrealised exchange Canadian borrowings 2011: Nil.
The following exchange rates gain of 0.2 million on the Consolidated Groups Euro and were used at the year end: 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Euro 0.83 0.89 Canadian 0.63 0.64 7.
Services Costs For year ended For year ended 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Service and construction costs 110.6 93.6 Amortisation of intangibles see Note 14 13.5 8.6 Other costs 5.9 3.6 130.0 105.8 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 8.
Administrative Expenses For year ended For year ended 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Fees payable to the Consolidated Groups auditors for the audit of the 0.1 0.1 Consolidated Group accounts Fees payable to the Consolidated Groups auditors and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys Operating Subsidiaries and other audit related services 0.2 0.2 Taxation advisory and non-audit services 0.1 0.1 Management fees 2.6 1.1 Operator fees Note 24 8.6 6.5 Investment fees Note 24 2.5 1.6 Directors fees Note 24 0.2 0.2 Professional fees 0.9 0.6 Project bid costs 0.7 0.3 Other costs 1.5 1.1 17.4 11.8 Investments and therefore not included within consolidated In addition to the above an amount of 0.3 million 2011: 0.2 million was paid to associates of the Consolidated Groups administrative expenses.
The Consolidated Group had no auditors in respect of audit and tax services provided to Entity employees during the year.
Net Finance Costs For year ended 31 March 2012 For year ended 31 March 2011 Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total million million million million million million Interest expense: Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 40.4 - 40.4 26.8 - 26.8 Interest and indexation on other loans 39.1 - 39.1 21.6 - 21.6 Other finance costs 2.9 4.7 7.6 2.7 - 2.7 Change in fair value of interest - 64.8 64.8 - - - and ination rate swaps Total finance costs 82.4 69.5 151.9 51.1 - 51.1 Interest income: Interest on bank deposits 0.9 - 0.9 0.4 - 0.4 Other finance income - 4.8 4.8 - 0.7 0.7 Change in fair value of interest - - - - 1.7 1.7 and ination rate swaps Total finance income 0.9 4.8 5.7 0.4 2.4 2.8 Net finance costs income 81.5 64.7 146.2 50.7 2.4 48.3 82 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 10.
Income Tax Under the current system of taxation in Guernsey, the Company Changes in Overseas Tax Rates itself is exempt from paying taxes on income, profits or capital Under the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968, a resolution gains.
Therefore, income from investments is not subject to any was passed on 26 March 2012 to amend the UK corporation tax further tax in Guernsey, although these investments will bear tax rate to 24% with effect from 1 April 2012.
In addition, the UK in the individual jurisdictions in which they operate.
Government announced further reductions of the rate to 23% and 22% by 1 April 2013 and 1 April 2014 respectively.
The Companys Operating Subsidiaries are UK based and as a consequence are bound by UK tax legislation.
Operating Other than the change to 24%, the effects of the announced Subsidiaries in the UK have provided for UK corporation changes are not reected in the financial statements for the tax at the rate of 26% for current tax liabilities 2011: 28% year ended 31 March 2012 as they have not yet been enacted and 24% for deferred tax assets and liabilities 2011: 26%.
however the impact would be a reduction in deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Income Tax Expense For year ended For year ended 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Foreign current tax: Foreign corporation tax on profits for the year 0.3 0.8 Total current tax expense 0.3 0.8 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences Note 10d 0.9 9.1 Total income tax credit in the consolidated income statement Note 10b 0.6 8.3 10b.
Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate For year ended For year ended 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million profit before taxation 84.2 38.3 Expected tax on profit at 0% 2011: 0% -- Different tax rates applied in overseas jurisdictions 1.7 7.5 Tax losses utilised recognised 1.1 0.8 Total income tax credit for the year 0.6 8.3 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 10b.
Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate continued The income tax credit in the year of 0.6 million 2011: asset and liability.
The effect has resulted in a reduction in the 8.3 million is due to movements in deferred tax.
The main deferred tax asset and liability and a corresponding tax credit.
component of the deferred tax movement arises from a Further analysis of deferred tax movements recognised in the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 24% which has led consolidated income statement is detailed in Note 10d.
to a re-measurement of the Consolidated Groups deferred tax 10c.
Recognised Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following For year ended 31 March 2012 For year ended 31 March 2011 Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net million million million million million million Finance receivables at fair value 0.9 85.7 84.8 0.5 22.4 21.9 through profit or loss Intangible assets - 91.0 91.0 - 43.2 43.2 Subordinated debt 15.0 1.3 13.7 8.2 0.6 7.6 Other financial liabilities 77.7 12.3 65.4 20.9 12.6 8.3 fair value of derivatives Tax losses 16.1 - 16.1 4.6 - 4.6 Carrying value of finance receivable on acquisition where there is no - 48.4 48.4 - 26.1 26.1 available tax deduction Other - - - 0.1 - 0.1 Net assets liabilities 109.7 238.7 129.0 34.3 104.9 70.6 10d.
Deferred Tax Movements For year ended 31 March 2012 Acquired in business Recognised Opening balance combination in profit Closing balance million million million million Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 21.9 39.6 23.3 84.8 Intangible assets 43.2 56.7 8.9 91.0 Subordinated debt 7.6 6.0 0.1 13.7 Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives 8.3 44.5 12.6 65.4 Tax losses 4.6 12.6 1.1 16.1 Carrying value of finance receivable on acquisition where there 26.1 26.1 3.8 48.4 is no available tax deduction Other 0.1 - 0.1 - 70.6 59.3 0.9 129.0 84 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 For year ended 31 March 2011 Acquired in business Recognised Opening balance combination in profit Closing balance million million million million Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 21.1 0.8 21.9 Intangible assets 49.0 - 5.8 43.2 Subordinated debt 8.6 - 1.0 7.6 Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives 7.3 - 1.0 8.3 Tax losses 3.8 - 0.8 4.6 Carrying value of finance receivable on acquisition where there 29.5 - 3.4 26.1 is no available tax deduction Other 0.2 - 0.1 0.1 79.7 - 9.1 70.6 11.
Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue the profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by during the year.
2012 2011 profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 82.8 million 45.2 million Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 633.4 million 504.5 million Basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share 13.1 pence 9.0 pence The Company issued C Shares on 30 March 2012 which has a dilutive effect.
Further details of shares issued in the year are set out in Note 23.
Basic Diluted Basic and diluted 2012 2012 2011 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue In millions of shares Issued Ordinary Shares at 1 April 595.1 595.1 454.3 Effect of Ordinary Shares issued as a scrip dividend alternative 2.2 2.2 0.6 Effect of Ordinary Shares issued under the block listing 36.1 36.1 30.1 Effect of Ordinary Shares issued under the Placing - - 19.5 and Offer for Subscription of C Shares Effect of C Shares issued under the Placing - 0.6 - and Offer for Subscription of C Shares Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares at 31 March 633.4 634.0 504.5 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 12.
Dividends For year ended For year ended 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders during the year: Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011 of 3.425p 2010: 3.35p per share 20.4 15.2 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012 of 3.35p 2011: 3.275p per share 21.5 16.3 41.9 31.5 Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012 of 3.5p 2011: 3.425p per share 23.3 20.4 The second interim dividend was approved by the Board on 12 The dividend has not been included as a liability at 31 March 2012.
April 2012 and is payable on 29 June 2012 to shareholders on The 2011 second interim dividend and the first 2012 interim the register as at 20 April 2012.
The second interim dividend is dividend are included in the statement of changes in payable to shareholders as a cash payment or alternatively as a shareholder equity.
For year ended For year ended 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Interim dividend for the period ended September 3.35p 3.275p Interim dividend for the period ended March 3.50p 3.425p 6.85p 6.7p 13.
Net Assets million and 665.4 million 2011: 595.1 million Ordinary Shares and The calculation of net assets per share is based on shareholders 250.0 million C Shares in issue at that date.
Intangible Assets 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Cost Opening balance 189.5 189.5 Acquisition through business combinations 226.7 - Balance as at 31 March 416.2 189.5 Amortisation Opening balance 27.5 18.9 Amortisation for the year 13.5 8.6 Balance as at 31 March 41.0 27.5 Carrying amounts At 31 March 375.2 162.0 86 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Intangible assets represent the fair value of customer contracts on a straight line basis over the forecast remaining life of the for operating subsidiary projects recognised on acquisition, concessions concerned on acquisition of the subsidiaries range which are primarily attributable to the service portion of the from between 11.5 and 30.5 years.
Amortisation of 13.5 project contracts, and intangible assets recognised under IFRIC million 2011: 8.6 million is included within service cost 12.
See Note 3 iv for the methods and assumptions used in expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Investments at Fair Value through profit or Loss 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Opening balance 426.0 307.4 Investments in the year 236.6 106.3 Accrued interest 6.7 2.3 Repayments in the year 37.8 6.5 Subscription obligations 46.7 8.0 Gains on valuation 21.9 10.9 Investments consolidated during the year 161.6 - Other movements 0.8 2.4 Carrying amount at year end 524.3 426.0 This is represented by: Less than one year - 29.7 Greater than one year 524.3 396.3 Carrying amount at year end 524.3 426.0 Gains on valuation as above 21.9 10.9 Less: transaction costs incurred 1.1 1.2 Gains on investments 20.8 9.7 The gains on investment have been included in Gains on obtained an independent opinion from a third party, with investments presented in the consolidated income statement as considerable expertise in valuing these type of investments, capital items.
supporting the reasonableness of the valuation.
All investments in PFI PPP P3 projects are valued using a discounted cashow The Investment Adviser has carried out fair market valuations methodology.
The valuation techniques and methodologies have of the investments as at 31 March 2012.
The Directors have been applied consistently with the prior year.
Discount rates satisfied themselves as to the methodology used, the discount applied range from 8.2% to 11.0% weighed average of 8.6% rates applied, and the valuation.
The Directors have also 2011: 8.4% to 10.0% weighed average of 8.7%.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 15.
Investments at Fair Value through profit or Loss continued The following economic assumptions were used in the discounted cashow valuations: UK ination rates 2.75% Holland, Ireland and Canada ination rates 2.0% UK deposit interest rates 1% to March 2015 and 3.75% thereafter UK corporation tax rate 24% Euro Sterling exchange rate 0.83 for all future periods Can$ Sterling exchange rate 0.63 for all future periods The economic assumptions for the year ended 31 March 2011 were as follows: UK ination rates 2.75% UK deposit interest rates 1% for 2 years to March 2013 and 4% thereafter UK corporation tax rate 26% Euro Sterling exchange rate 0.89 for all future periods Can$ Sterling exchange rate 0.64 for all future periods Investments are generally restricted on their ability to transfer funds to the Group under the terms of their senior funding arrangements for that investment.
significant restrictions include: Historic and projected debt service and loan life cover ratios exceed a given threshold: Required cash reserve account levels are met: Senior lenders have agreed the current financial model that forecasts the economic performance of the project company: Project company is in compliance with the terms of its senior funding arrangements: and Senior lenders have approved the annual budget for the company.
Investments at Fair Value through profit or Loss continued Percentage Holding Percentage Holding 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Subordinated Mezzanine Subordinated Mezzanine Investments project name Equity loanstock debt Equity loanstock debt Newcastle Libraries 50.0% 50.0% - 50.0% 50.0% - Newport Schools 80.0% 80.0% - - - - Newton Abbot Hospital 50.0% 100.0% - - - - North Tyneside Schools 50.0% 50.0% - 50.0% 50.0% - 6 North West Anthony Henday P3 50.0% 50.0% - 50.0% 50.0% - Norwich Schools 75.0% 75.0% - - - - Oldham Library 50.0% 50.0% - - - - Oldham Schools 75.0% 75.0% - - - - Oxford Churchill Oncology 40.0% 40.0% - - - - 1 Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital - - - 89.9% 100.0% - Oxford Nufeld Hospital 25.0% 25.0% - - - - Pontefract & Pinderelds Hospitals 50.0% 50.0% - - - - 1 Queen Alexandra Hospital - - - 89.9% 100.0% - Renfrewshire Schools 30.0% 30.0% - 30.0% 30.0% - Romford Hospital 50.0% 50.0% - 50.0% 50.0% - Shefeld Hospital 75.0% 75.0% - - - - Shefeld Schools 37.5% 37.5% - - - - Sussex Custodial Centre 89.9% 100.0% - 89.9% 100.0% - Swindon Police 80.0% 80.0% - - - - Willesden Hospital 50.0% 50.0% - - - - Wooldale Centre 50.0% 50.0% - 50.0% 50.0% - 1 Incremental acquisitions of additional stakes during the year have resulted in these investments being deemed subsidiaries of the Company see Note 16 and 28.
2 The company is incorporated in Ireland.
3 The company is incorporated in the Netherlands.
4 The Consolidated Groups share of the projects capital commitments is 11.8 million.
5 The Consolidated Groups economic interest in the Helicopter Training project includes the above investment in CAE Aircrew Training Services Plc Op Co and the controlling interest in CVS Leasing Limited Asset Co see Note 28.
6 The company is incorporated in Canada.
There are no other future loanstock or capital commitments on other investments at fair value through the profit or loss.
90 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 16a.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries Year ended 31 March 2012 a.
Consideration Investments which become subsidiaries through the acquisition million of an additional equity interest are held as investments at Cash 15.8 fair value and therefore there is no gain or loss as a result of re-measuring to fair value the interests held prior to the acquisitions.
Fair values were determined using the income b. Identiable Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed approach which discounts the expected cash ows attributable million to each asset at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
Intangibles 23.4 Intangible assets represent the fair value of customer contracts Finance receivables at fair value for operating subsidiary projects recognised on acquisition, 83.2 through profit or loss which are primarily attributable to the service portion of the Deferred tax assets 3.9 project contracts, and intangible assets recognised under IFRIC 12.
Intangibles are amortised on a straight line basis over the Cash and cash equivalents 2.2 remaining life of the concessions concerned.
Other current assets 1.4 Current liabilities 2.2 South Ayrshire Schools Project SAS Deferred tax liabilities 5.9 On 10 June 2011 the Group obtained control of SAS, by Other non-current liabilities 90.2 acquiring 100.0% of the equity and loanstock in the project.
The 15.8 transaction costs were 0.1 million and have been expensed to administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
c. Goodwill The project involved the nancing, design and construction and subsequent operation of three new primary schools, two million new secondary schools and a new performing arts annex at an Total consideration transferred 15.8 existing secondary school.
All the schools became operational Less fair value of net identiable assets 15.8 between January 2008 and January 2010.
- In the nine months to 31 March 2012 the acquisition contributed income of 8.9 million and losses of 9.4 million.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2011, management estimates that consolidated revenue for the Group would have been 380.8 million, and consolidated profit for the year for the Group would have been 83.3 million.
The results for the nine months to 31 March 2012 are materially impacted by movements in gilt rates between acquisition and year end.
Therefore, it is not possible to extrapolate the results from the nine months to get an indicative operating result for the subsidiary for the year.
This is relevant for all subsidiaries acquired in the year.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 16a.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries continued The Hospital Company QAH Limited QAH a.
Consideration On 23 June 2011 the Group obtained control of QAH, by million acquiring 10.1% of the equity in the project.
As a result, the Cash 2.8 Groups equity interest increased from 89.9% to 100.0%.
The transaction cost was fide minimus.
b. Identiable Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed This project is a concession to design and construct a new hospital and retained estates work in Portsmouth, which million became operational in 2010.
Intangibles 35.8 Finance receivables at fair value 345.4 through profit or loss Deferred tax assets 14.2 Cash and cash equivalents 17.9 Other current assets 9.6 Current liabilities 7.0 Deferred tax liabilities 25.1 Other non-current liabilities 324.3 66.5 c. Goodwill million Total consideration transferred 2.8 Fair value of previous interest in acquiree 63.7 Less fair value of net identiable assets 66.5 - In the nine months to 31 March 2012 the acquisition contributed income of 62.6 million and profits of 16.6 million.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2011, management estimates that consolidated revenue for the Group would have been 398.7 million, and consolidated profit for the year for the Group would have been 86.8 million.
92 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 The Hospital Company OJR Limited OJR a.
Consideration On 23 June 2011 the Group obtained control of OJR, by acquiring million 10.1% of the equity in the project.
As a result, the Groups equity Cash 1.2 interest increased from 89.9% to 100.0%.
b. Identiable Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed This project is a concession to design, construct, manage, finance, operate and maintain a new wing adjacent to the million former Radcliffe Inrmary.
Construction was completed Intangibles 70.5 ahead of schedule in March 2001.
Finance receivables at fair value through 150.3 profit or loss Deferred tax assets 19.4 Cash and cash equivalents 10.4 Other current assets 3.1 Current liabilities 4.6 Deferred tax liabilities 24.4 Other non-current liabilities 191.6 33.1 c. Goodwill million Total consideration transferred 1.2 Fair value of previous interest in acquiree 31.9 Less fair value of net identiable assets 33.1 - In the nine months to 31 March 2012 the acquisition contributed income of 31.4 million and losses of 2.4 million.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2011, management estimates that consolidated revenue for the Group would have been 388.3 million, and consolidated profit for the year for the Group would have been 85.0 million.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 16a.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries continued Blackburn Hospital a.
Consideration On 10 November 2011 the Group obtained control of Blackburn million Hospital, by acquiring 50.0% of the equity in the project.
As Cash 13.8 a result, the Groups equity interest increased from 50.0% to 100.0%.
The Group also acquired the remaining 50.0% of the loanstock.
b. Identiable Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed The project involved the design, construction, nancing and million maintenance of new facilities at the Queens Park Hospital in Intangibles 38.2 Blackburn for the East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust.
Finance receivables at fair value through The new facilities have been operational since 2003.
170.9 profit or loss Deferred tax assets 12.7 Cash and cash equivalents 9.3 Other current assets 2.5 Current liabilities 3.4 Deferred tax liabilities 48.7 Other non-current liabilities 155.5 26.0 c. Goodwill million Total consideration transferred 13.8 Fair value of previous interest in acquiree 12.2 Less fair value of net identiable assets 26.0 - In the six months to 31 March 2012 the acquisition contributed income of 11.4 million and profits of 2.8 million.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2011, management estimates that consolidated revenue would have been 389.2 million, and consolidated profit for the year would have been 83.4 million.
94 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Portfolio acquisition a.
Consideration On 19 December the Group acquired a portfolio of 26 PFI PPP million projects from two infrastructure funds managed by Barclays Cash 143.4 Infrastructure Funds Management Limited.
Of the 26, 5 have been treated as subsidiaries and 21 have been treated as investments in associates or joint ventures.
Transaction costs b. Identiable Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed of 0.2 million relating to the subsidiaries have been expensed million to administrative expenses in the consolidated income Intangibles 58.9 statement and 0.7 million relating to the other projects have been capitalised.
Finance receivables at fair value through 159.1 profit or loss All of the 26 projects are operational and, apart from two Deferred tax assets 108.1 investments in The Republic of Ireland the Cork School of Music and Irish Grouped schools project all are based in the UK.
Cash and cash equivalents 12.6 Other current assets 13.8 Current liabilities 1.4 Deferred tax liabilities 5.9 Other non-current liabilities 18.9 143.4 c. Goodwill million Total consideration transferred 140.4 Deferred consideration 3.0 Less fair value of net identiable assets 143.4 - The deferred consideration of 3.0 million relates to five outstanding construction and operation matters on one project.
As and when these are resolved satisfactorily, portions of the consideration will be released.
Any deferred consideration not paid by June 2013 will remain with the Group.
In the three months to 31 March 2012 the acquisition contributed negative income of 0.5 million and losses of 0.4 million.
If the acquisition occurred on 1 April 2011, management estimates that consolidated revenue would have been 376.2 million, and consolidated profit for the year would have been 72.3 million.
Year ended 31 March 2011 There were no acquisitions of subsidiaries during the year ended 31 March 2011.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 16b.
Acquisition of Other Investments Year ended 31 March 2012 Year ended 31 March 2011 The Consolidated Group has acquired a greater than 50% In June 2010, the Group acquired a 74.9% interest in the equity shareholding in certain entities see Note 15, where in the and loanstock of The Hospital Company QAH Limited through opinion of the Directors it is unable to govern the financial and the acquisition of a 74.9% interest in the investment holding operating policies of the entities by virtue of agreements with company, The Hospital Company QAH Holdings Limited.
The the other shareholder s. These entities are consequently not total consideration paid in cash for the interest in this project treated as subsidiaries, and instead they are accounted for as was 46.4 million.
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, as set out In September 2010, the Group acquired a further 7.55% equity in Note 2 b. interest and 17.65% loan note interest in the Sussex Custodial Services Limited, taking its total equity interest in the project to In May 2011 the Group and Kajima Partnerships Limited 89.9% and loan note interest to 100%.
The total consideration established a new joint venture holding company, Redwood paid in cash for these interests was 1.1 million.
The Group has a 75% shareholding in RPV2L.
In November and December 2010, the Group acquired interests In May 2011 the Group through RPV2L completed the acquisition in two UK PFI and two Canadian P3 projects.
The consideration of equity investments in three UK PFI schools for 17.2 million.
was 65.9 million, including deferred investment obligations of The three projects acquired by RPV2L were: approximately 46.1 million at October 2010 exchange rates.
The four interests are: a 100% interest in the Norwich Area Schools PFI Project: a 100% interest in the Oldham Secondary Schools PFI a 50.0% interest in the equity and loanstock of Kent Project: and Education Partnership Limited through the acquisition of a 50.0% interest in the investment holding company, Kent a 50% interest in the Shefeld Schools PFI Project.
Education Partnership Holdings Limited, In May 2011 the Group completed the acquisition of a 75.0% a 41.6% indirect interest in the equity and loanstock of equity investment in Brentwood Community Hospital for 4.6 Highway Management Scotland Limited, currently under million through RPV2L.
construction in Scotland, through the acquisition of a 41.6% interest in the investment holding company, Highway In June 2011 the Group completed the acquisition of an indirect Management M80 Investment Management Limited.
Through 50.0% equity investment in Pontefract and Pinderelds the future exercise of options rights over the holdings of the Hospitals and a further small equity interest in the Medium other shareholders, this interest will increase to 49.9%, Support Helicopter Aircrew Training Facility for 28.8 million in aggregate.
a 50.0% interest in the North West Connect General Partnership, currently in construction in Alberta, Canada, In November 2011 the Group completed the acquisition of 75.0% through the acquisition of a 50.0% interest in the investment of the equity and loan note interests in Shefeld Hospital for holding company, North West Connect Holdings Inc, and 5.2 million through RPV2L.
a 50.0% interest in the Transpark Highway General In February 2012 the Group acquired a further 33.5% of the Partnership in British Columbia, Canada, part of the Transequity and loan note interests in Dorset Fire and Rescue for Canada Highway through the acquisition of a 50.0% interest 3.8 million.
in the investment holding company, Transpark Highway Holding Inc.
The Directors have analysed the shareholder rights of these projects and are of the opinion that they should be treated as investments in joint ventures in accordance with IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
96 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 In October 2010, the Group acquired a further 15.0% equity the project to 89.9% and loan note interest to 100%.
The total interest and 25.1% loan note interest in The Hospital Company consideration paid in cash for the incremental interest in this QAH Limited, taking its total equity interest in the project to project was 13.9 million.
89.9% and loan note interest to 100%.
The total consideration In March 2011, the Group acquired a further 5.49% equity and paid in cash for the incremental interest in this project was loan note interest in Infraspeed BV, the Dutch High Speed Rail 13.4 million.
PPP project, taking its total equity and loan note interests in the In October 2010, the Group acquired a further 39.9% equity project to 42.99%.
The total consideration paid in cash for the interest and 50% loan note interest in The Hospital Company incremental interest in this project was 11.6 million Oxford John Radcliffe Limited, taking its total equity interest in 10.3 million.
Finance Receivables at Fair Value through profit or Loss 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Opening balance 779.1 788.6 Acquisition of subsidiaries 908.8 - Gain loss on valuation 107.2 6.6 Repayments in the year 25.3 17.4 Other movements 0.8 1.3 Carrying amount at year end 1,770.6 779.1 This is represented by: Less than one year 31.2 17.5 Greater than one year 1,739.4 761.6 Carrying amount at year end 1,770.6 779.1 The Operating Subsidiaries concession contracts with public reporting date is the fair value of the financial assets in the sector bodies are considered as financial assets.
Gain in fair balance sheet.
values of financial assets of 107.2 million for the year ended 31 March 2012 2011: 6.6 million gain, are separately disclosed Interest income in relation to finance receivables of 70.6 million in the consolidated income statement as a capital amount.
See has been recognised in the consolidated income statement for Note 3 ii for the methods and assumptions used in determining the year ended 31 March 2012 as a revenue amount 2011: 40.6 million.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 18.
Trade and Other Receivables 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Trade receivables 14.8 9.8 Other debtors 2.1 1.0 Prepayments and accrued income 12.3 4.9 29.2 15.7 19.
Cash and Cash Equivalents 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Bank balances 56.3 34.5 Call deposits 317.4 80.4 Cash and cash equivalents 373.7 114.9 The effective interest rate on call deposits was between 0.1% and 2.4% 2011: between 0.3% and 1.0%.
The deposits had a maturity of between 1 and 367 days 2011: between 7 and 338 days.
Trade and Other Payables 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Trade payables 11.8 7.6 Accruals 28.6 15.7 Other payables 7.7 5.6 48.1 28.9 21.
Loans and Borrowings 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Non-current liabilities Libor borrowings 755.2 350.1 Subordinated debt 24.3 23.4 RPI-linked borrowings 529.0 157.6 Fixed rate borrowings 101.4 85.2 1,409.9 616.3 Current liabilities Libor borrowings 168.6 19.4 Subordinated debt 0.4 0.7 RPI-linked borrowings 21.4 11.3 Fixed rate borrowings 1.0 - 191.4 31.4 Total loans and borrowings 1,601.3 647.7 98 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Terms and Debt Repayment Schedule The terms and conditions of outstanding loans are as follows: Carrying amount Carrying amount Weighted average Average year 2012 2011 effective interest rate of maturity million million Secured libor borrowings Operating 4.6% 2031 785.3 369.5 Subsidiaries Secured libor borrowings Partnership 5.2% 2012 138.5 - Subordinated debt 12.8% 2020 24.7 24.1 RPI-linked borrowings 3.2% 2036 550.4 168.9 Fixed rate borrowings 5.7% 2031 102.4 85.2 1,601.3 647.7 The interest rate for secured libor borrowings varies with borrowings are indexed annually and semi-annually using changes in libor.
This debt is hedged using xed to oating published RPI gures.
The index ratio uses a base index gure interest rate swaps.
The interest rate on RPI-linked borrowings ranging from 173.3 to 178.2 and a numerator index gure that is varies with ination whereas xed rate borrowings have xed published by the Ofce for National Statistics.
The fair value of all borrowings is deemed to reect their RPI-linked and xed rate borrowings include bonds which are carrying value, except xed rate and RPI-linked borrowings.
guaranteed by FSA UK Limited and Ambac Assurance UK An analysis of fair values and carrying values of these Limited and are secured by a xed and oating charge over the borrowings is detailed below: assets of the respective subsidiary companies.
The index-linked 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value million million million million RPI-linked borrowings 550.4 646.1 168.9 190.8 Fixed rate borrowings 102.4 112.9 85.2 94.1 652.8 759.0 254.1 284.9 The fair value of xed rate and RPI-linked bonds has been The currency prole of the Consolidated Groups loans and determined on a market quote basis.
borrowings is as follows: 2012 2011 million million Pound Sterling 1,494.6 647.7 Euro 79.1 - Canadian Dollar 27.6 - 1,601.3 647.7 The exchange rate used as at 31 March 2012 to convert the Euro loan was 0.83 and 0.63 for the Canadian Dollar loan.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 21.
Loans and Borrowings continued The Consolidated Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities at 31 March: 2012 2011 Floating rate: million million Secured - expiring within one year 58.7 - - expiring between 1 and 2 years 50.0 153.3 - expiring between 2 and 5 years 100.0 - - expiring after 5 years 16.7 8.0 225.4 161.3 The Operating Subsidiaries are required to meet certain The Group was also required to meet certain bank covenants bank covenants on its debt, the most significant of which on its 200 million five year revolving bank facility, the most are maintaining debt service cover ratios annual cash ows significant of which were maintaining a Forward and Historic available for debt service as a ratio of debt servicing amounts Interest Cover Ratio above 1.15 and Gearing Ratio not greater above 1.05 and Loan Life Cover Ratio above 1.05.
There were no than 1:1. material events of non-compliance in the Operating Subsidiaries in the year.
Other Financial Liabilities Fair Value of Derivatives 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Non-current liabilities Interest rate swaps 206.9 56.4 Ination swap 53.0 26.1 Forward foreign exchange contract - 0.3 259.9 82.8 Financial liabilities have been fair valued in accordance with Note contracts at 31 March 2012 was 794.4 million 2011: 444.7 2 d. The loss in fair value of interest and ination rate swaps million.
As at 31 March 2012, the xed interest rates on the of 64.8 million for the year ended 31 March 2012 2011: Gain swaps range from 1.73% to 6.48% 2011: 4.53% to 6.51% and 1.7 million is disclosed within finance costs in the consolidated maturities range from 2016 to 2038 2011: 2012 to 2036.
The income statement as a capital amount see Note 9. notional amount of the outstanding ination rate swap contracts at 31 March 2012 was 11.8 million 2011: 1.4 million.
As at In order to manage exposure to movements in interest rates, 31 March 2012, the xed ination rates on the swaps range from project companies nanced by oating rate debt swap their 2.53% to 2.96% 2011: 2.12% to 2.77% and maturities range oating rate exposure for xed rates using interest rate swaps.
The notional amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap 100 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 23.
Capital and Reserves Ordinary Shares C Shares 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million million million Issued at 1 April 595.1 454.3 - - Issued for cash 65.9 139.0 250.0 - Issued as a scrip dividend alternative 4.4 1.8 - - Issued at 31 March fully paid 665.4 595.1 250.0 - The holders of the 665,422,215 Ordinary Shares are entitled The 2 Management Shares of 0.01p each carry one vote each to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are on a poll, do not carry any right to dividends and, in windingentitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company up, rank only for a return of the amount of the paid-up capital 2011: 595,139,454. on such shares after return of capital on Ordinary Shares and Nominal Shares.
The Management Shares are not redeemable 250,000,000 C Shares were issued by the Company at a price of and are accrued for and on behalf of a Guernsey charitable trust.
The holders of C Shares are entitled to one vote per share at any general meetings of the Company.
Ordinary Share Capital and Share Premium 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Opening balance 390.7 234.0 Premium arising on issue of equity shares 80.9 159.0 Expenses of issue of equity shares 0.7 2.3 Balance at 31 March 470.9 390.7 Share capital is 66.5 thousand 2011: 59.5 thousand.
C Share Capital and Share Premium 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million Opening balance -- Premium arising on issue of C Shares 250.0 - Expenses of issue of C Shares 3.2 - Balance at 31 March 246.8 - C Share capital is 25.0 thousand 2011: Nil each fully paid in the Company were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the interim dividend in respect of For the year ended 31 March 2012 the year ending 31 March 2012.
On 30 June 2011 1.9 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01 p In the year ending 31 March 2012 65.9 million new Ordinary each fully paid in the Company were issued as a scrip dividend Shares were issued to various institutional investors at an issue alternative in lieu of cash for the second interim dividend in price per share before expenses ranging between 115.0 p and respect of the year ending 31 March 2011.
117.0 p. On 31 December 2011 2.5 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 23.
Related Party Transactions The Investment Adviser to the Company and the Operator For the year ended 31 March 2012 continued of a limited partnership through which the group holds its On 28 March 2012, the Company announced the results of its investments is InfraRed Capital Partners Limited IRCP.
Placing, Open Offer and Offer for Subscription of C Shares.
The Company raised 250.0 million before expenses through the IRCPs appointment as Investment Adviser is governed by an issue of 250,000,000 C Shares at a price of 1.00 per C Share, Investment Advisory Agreement which may be terminated by of which 82,685,943 C Shares were issued pursuant to the either party giving one years written notice.
The appointment Open Offer, 10,029,500 C Shares were issued pursuant may also be terminated if IRCPs appointment as Operator is to the Offer for Subscription and 157,284,557 C Shares were terminated.
The Investment Adviser is entitled to a fee of 0.1 issued by way of the Placing.
The C Shares were admitted to million per annum disclosed within investment fees in Note 8 trading on the London Stock Exchange on 30 March 2012.
2011: 0.1 million, payable half-yearly in arrears and which is subject to review, from time to time, by the Company.
For the year ended 31 March 2011 On 30 June 2010 0.3 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01 p IRCP has been appointed as the Operator of Infrastructure each fully paid in the Company were issued as a scrip dividend Investments Limited Partnership by the General Partner of the alternative in lieu of cash for the second interim dividend in Partnership, Infrastructure Investments General Partner Limited, respect of the year ending 31 March 2010. a sister subsidiary of IRCP.
The Operator and the General Partner may each terminate the appointment of the Operator by either On 31 December 2010 1.5 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p party giving one years written notice.
Either the Operator or the each fully paid in the Company were issued as a scrip dividend General Partner may terminate the appointment of the Operator alternative in lieu of cash for the interim dividend in respect of by written notice if the Investment Advisory Agreement is the year ending 31 March 2011. terminated in accordance with its terms.
The General Partners appointment does not have a xed term, however if IRCP ceases On 13 December 2010 the Company announced the results to be the Operator, the Company has the option to buy the of its Placing and Offer for Subscription of C Shares.
The entire share capital of the General Partner and IRCP Group has Company raised 110.0 m before expenses through the issue the option to sell the entire share capital of the General Partner of 110,000,000 C Shares at a price of 1.00 per C Share, of to the Company, in both cases for nominal consideration.
The which 56,739,235 C Shares were issued pursuant to the Open Directors consider the value of the option to be insignicant.
Offer, 2,769,811 C Shares were issued pursuant to the Offer for Subscription and 50,490,954 C Shares were issued by way In aggregate IRCP and the General Partner are entitled to fees of the Placing.
The C Shares were converted to 97,350,000 and or profit share equal to: i 1.1 per cent per annum of the Ordinary Shares and admitted to trading on the London Stock adjusted gross asset value of all investments of the group that Exchange on 17 January 2011. are not in either their construction or ramp-up phases up to 750 million and 1.0 per cent per annum for the incremental In the year ending 31 March 2011 41.7 million new Ordinary value in excess of 750 million: ii 1.5 per cent per annum of Shares were issued to various institutional investors at an issue investments of the group that are in either their construction price per share before expenses ranging between 112.5 p and or ramp-up phases, excluding investments acquired with the 115.0 p. acquisition of the initial portfolio the ramp-up phase of an investment means the period following completion of a projects Retained Reserves construction phase during which it is building up to be fully Retained reserves comprise retained earnings and the operational with full service provision : and iii 1.0 per cent of balance of the share premium account, as detailed the value of new portfolio investments, that are not sourced from in the consolidated statements of changes in entities, funds or holdings managed by the IRCP Group.
102 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 The total Operator fees charged to the Consolidated Income Statement was 8.6 million 2011: 6.5 million of which 4.6 million remained payable at year end 2011: 3.6 million.
The total charge for new portfolio investments disclosed within investment fees in Note 8 was 2.4 million 2011: 1.5 million of which 1.7 million remained payable at year end 2011: 1.0 million.
Transactions during the year The following summarises the transactions between the Consolidated Group and its associates in the year: Transactions Balance Year ended Year ended 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million million million million Loanstock investments 120.5 66.1 285.4 285.2 Loanstock repayments 5.5 2.5 - - Equity investments 100.5 47.0 189.8 152.9 Equity repayments 2.3 4.0 - - Outstanding subscription obligations ---- Loanstock interest 21.2 18.8 19.6 10.8 Dividends received 6.7 5.8 - - Fees and other income 1.4 1.5 0.6 - The Directors of the Company, who are considered to be key management, received fees for their services.
Further details are provided in the Report of the Directors on page 49.
Total fees for Directors for the year were 161,500 2011: 155,000.
Directors expenses of 7,646 2011: 10,634 were also paid in the year.
One Director also receives fees of 5,000 2011: 5,000 for serving as director of the two Luxembourg subsidiaries.
All of the above transactions were undertaken on an arms length basis.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 25.
Events after Balance Sheet Date As at 31 March 2012 the Consolidated Group had Nil 250,000,000 C Shares were converted to 218,050,000 Ordinary commitments for future project investments 2011: 47.0 Shares on 27 April 2012 at a conversion rate of 0.8722 Ordinary million and 11.8 million in capital commitments Shares for each C Share.
On 24 April, the 200 million five year revolving bank facility used by the Investment Group was fully repaid and duly cancelled.
On 4 May 2012 the Company completed an incremental acquisition in RMPA Holdings Limited Colchester Garrison for a consideration of 15.0 million taking its shareholding to 56%.
On 18 May 2012 the Company completed an acquisition of 30% in Consort Healthcare Birmingham Holdings Limited Birmingham Hospital for a consideration of 34.6 million.
On 21 May 2012 the Company completed an acquisition of 19.5% in Citylink Telecommunications Holdings Limited Connect PFI for a consideration of 39.0 million.
There were no other events after the balance sheet date, which are required to be disclosed.
104 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 27.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements The group holds investments in 70 service concession The rights of both the concession provider and concession arrangements in the Accommodation, Education, Health, operator are stated within the specic project agreement.
Transport and Law and Order sectors.
The concessions vary The standard rights of the provider to terminate the project on the required obligations but typically require the nancing include poor performance and in the event of force majeure.
The and operation of an asset during the concession period.
As operators rights to terminate include the failure of the provider at 31 March 2012, 69 of the service concessions were fully to make payment under the agreement, a material breach of operational.
contract and relevant changes of law which would render it impossible for the service company to full its requirements.
Start End Number Project Key Project Short description of concession arrangements date date of years Capex subcontractors A249 Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain the 2006 2034 28 79m Carillion section from Lwade Bypass to Queensborough of the A249 road for the Secretary of State for Transport.
A92 Design, construct, finance and operate the upgraded 2006 2035 29 54m Ringway A92 shadow toll road between Dundee and Arbroath for Transport for Scotland.
Barking & Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain the 2005 2030 25 47m Bouygues Dagenham Schools Eastbury Comprehensive and Jo Richardson Community Schools for London Borough of Barking & Dagenham.
Barnet Design, construct, operate and maintain the re-building 1999 2032 33 65m Bouygues Hospital of Barnet General Hospital in North London for the Siemens Wellhouse National Health Service Trust.
Medirest ISS Bishop Auckland Design, construct, finance, service and maintain 1999 2062 60 with break 66m Hospital a redevelopment of Bishop Auckland General clause option by Grantor at Hospital, County Durham for South Durham Health Year 30, 40 Care NHS Trust.
& 50 Blackburn Design, construct, finance and maintain new facilities 2003 2041 38 100m Balfour Hospital at the Queens Park Hospital in Blackburn for the East Siemens Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust.
Boldon School Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2006 2031 25 18m Mitie Boldon School for the Borough of South Tyneside.
Bradford Schools Design, construct, finance and maintain four secondary 2009 2036 27 175m Amey schools for Bradford Metropolitan District Council.
Brentwood Design, construct, finance and maintain a new 2006 2038 32 30m Integral Community community hospital for South West Essex Hospital Primary Care Trust.
Central Middlesex Design, construct, finance and maintain new hospital 2003 2036 33 75m Bouygues Hospital facilities, and to refurbish some existing facilities, for the Brent Emergency Care and Diagnostic Centre on the Central Middlesex Hospital site in North West London.
Cleveland and Durham Construction of a state of the art rearms and tactical 2000 2026 26 6m John Laing Police Tactical training centre at Urlay Nook in the North of England.
Training Centre HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 27.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements continued Start End Number Project Key Project Short description of concession arrangements date date of years Capex subcontractors Colchester Design, construct, finance and maintain a new garrison 2004 2039 35 550m Sodexo Garrison facility at Colchester, Essex for The Secretary of State for Defence.
Conwy Schools Design, build, operate and maintain three schools for 2003 2030 27 40m Sodexo Conwy County Borough Council in North Wales.
Cork School Design, construct, finance and operate a new school of 2007 2032 25 43m Bilnger Berger of Music music in Cork to accommodate 130 academic staff, 400 full time and 2,000 part-time students for the Minister of Education and Science Republic of Ireland.
Croydon Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a 2006 2035 29 20m Vinci School secondary school and community library in Croydon for the London Borough of Croydon.
Darlington Darlington Schools is a four-school education PFI 2004 2031 27 31m Mitie Schools project consisting of an Education Village which brought together three existing schools and one primary school.
Defence 6th Design, build, operate, finance and maintain a new 2003 2033 30 40m Pearson Form College residential sixth form college for the Secretary of Interserve State for Defence.
Derby Schools Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain three 2006 2031 25 40m Vinci primary schools and two secondary schools in Derby for Derby City Council.
Doncaster Mental Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a 2005 2032 27 15m Royal BAM Health Hospital service accommodation for an elderly mental health unit in Doncaster for the Rotherham Doncaster and South Humber Mental NHS Foundation Trust.
Doncaster Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain two 2008 2033 25 49m Vinci Schools new secondary schools in Doncaster for the Doncaster Metropolitan Borough Council.
Dorset Fire Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain the 2009 2034 25 49m Cofely & Rescue re and police facilities at three sites in Dorset for the Dorset Fire Authority & Dorset Police Authority.
Dorset Police Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2001 2031 30 16m Sodexo a new divisional headquarters and section stations at Bridport and East Weymouth for the Dorset Police Authority.
Dutch High Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2001 2031 30 625m Siemens Speed Rail power, track and signalling for the high speed Royal BAM railway between Schiphol Airport and Belgian Fluor border in the Netherlands.
106 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Start End Number Project Key Project Short description of concession arrangements date date of years Capex subcontractors Ealing Care Homes Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain four 2009 2036 27 22m Viridian care homes for the elderly in the London Borough of Ealing for the London Borough of Ealing.
Ealing Schools Ealing Schools is a four-school education PFI 2004 2031 27 31m Mitie project consisting of one secondary school and three primary schools in the London Borough of Ealing.
Exeter Crown Build and service a new crown and county court 2002 2034 32 20m Sodexo Court building in Exeter.
Fife Schools The facility involved the construction of 3 new 2001 2028 27 40m Sodexo schools and a sports hall.
Glasgow Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2009 2039 30 178m Parsons Hospital two new ambulatory care and diagnostic hospitals in Glasgow for the Greater Glasgow and Clyde Health Board.
GMPA Police Construction of 17 police stations on 16 sites around 2002 2030 28 82m John Laing Stations Greater Manchester.
Haverstock School Haverstock is a single school education PFI project 2003 2030 27 21m Mitie consisting of a new secondary school on an existing school site on Haverstock Hill, Camden.
Health & Safety HSE Merseyside HQ is an accommodation PFI project.
2002 2035 30 62m Honeywell Merseyside HQ It is a four-storey ofce building that serves as the Reliance HSE s operational headquarters and houses 1,500 employees.
Health & Safety Building of new workshops and ofces in Buxton 2002 2035 33 60m Interserve Laboratory and the disposal of old facilities at Shefeld.
Helicopter Design, construction, management, operation and 1997 2037 40 with break 100m Serco Training Facility nancing of STET simulators based training facility clause by Vega for RAF helicopter pilots.
Grantor at Rockwell Collins Year 20 Highland Schools Design, construction and operate eleven urban 2006 2037 30 143m Morrison and rural schools.
Home Ofce HQ Build, finance, operate and maintain a new 2002 2032 29 200m Bouygues headquarters building to replace the Home Ofces existing London ofce accommodation with purpose-built serviced ofces.
Irish Grouped Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain five 2002 2027 25 34m Bilnger Berger Schools secondary schools in the Republic of Ireland for the Department of Education and Skills.
Kicking Horse Upgrade, operate and maintain a section of 2008 2030 22 CAD$ HMC Services Canyon highway in British Columbia.
127m HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 27.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements continued Start End Number Project Key Project Short description of concession arrangements date date of years Capex subcontractors Kent Schools Design, build, funding and partial operation of 2007 2035 26 95m Mitie six schools in Kent under the UK Governments PFI programme.
Lewisham Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a 2006 2036 30 58m Carillion Hospital new wing in Lewisham Hospital for the Department of Health.
M80 Motorway Design, build, finance and operate a section of the 2011 2041 30 275m Bear M80 motorway in Scotland.
Bilnger Berger Manchester Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2007 2032 25 29m Hochtief School the Wright Robinson College in Manchester for Manchester City Council.
Medway Police Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2006 2034 28 21m Vinci a divisional police headquarters for Kent Police Authority.
MPA Specialist Construction of a rearms and public order 2001 2028 27 40m John Laing Training Centre training facility in Gravesend, Kent for the Metropolitan Police Authority.
MPA SEL Police Construction of 4 police stations in South East 2001 2029 28 80m John Laing Stations London for the Metropolitan Police Authority.
Newcastle Finance, develop, construct and operate a new 2007 2034 27 30m Integral Libraries city centre library in Newcastle and an additional satellite library in High Heaton, both in the North East of the UK.
Newport Schools Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2009 2034 25 16m Vinci a nursery, infant and junior school for Newport City Council.
Newton Abbot Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2008 2038 30 20m Rydon Hospital a community hospital for Teignbridge Primary Care Trust.
North Tyneside North Tyneside Schools is a four-school education PFI 2002 2034 32 30m Mitie Schools project consisting of one secondary school Burnside and three primary schools Western, Marine, Coquet in North Tyneside.
North West Financing, building, maintaining and rehabilitating the 2011 2041 30 CAD$ Carmacks Anthony Henday northwest leg of the Anthony Henday Drive ring road in 995m the City of Edmonton, Alberta.
Norwich Schools Design, construct, finance and operate five primary 2006 2032 26 43m Kier schools and one secondary school: all new build with the exception of a small element of retained estate at the secondary school for the Norwich City Council.
108 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Start End Number Project Key Project Short description of concession arrangements date date of years Capex subcontractors Oldham Library Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain the 2006 2031 25 15m Kier Oldham Library and Lifelong Learning Centre for Oldham Metropolitan Borough Council.
Oldham Schools Design, construct, finance and operate two secondary 2006 2033 27 54m Kier schools for Oldham Metropolitan Borough Council.
Oxford Churchill Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a 2009 2038 29 124mG4S Oncology 100 bed oncology unit, including provision of medical equipment for Oxford Radcliffe Hospitals NHS Trust.
Oxford John Design, construction, management, nancing, 2003 2036 33 161m Carillion Radcliffe Hospital operation and maintenance of a new wing adjacent to the former Radcliffe Inrmary.
Oxford Nufeld Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a 2008 2036 28 42m G4S Hospital new orthopaedic hospital for the Secretary of State for Health.
Pontefract & Design, construction, management, nancing and 2007 2042 35 311m Balfour Beatty Pinderelds operate a new 708 bed acute hospital in Pindereld, Hospitals West Yorks and a new diagnostic and treatment hospital in Pontefract, West Yorks for the Mid Yorkshire NHS Trust.
Portsmouth Design and construction of a new hospital and retained 2005 2040 35 255m Carillion Hospital estates work in Portsmouth.
Renfrewshire Design, construction, management, nancing, 2005 2037 32 100m Amey Schools operation and maintenance of six primary and four secondary schools in Renfrewshire, Scotland.
Rhondda Schools Design, construction, management, nancing and 2006 2030 24 30m Vinci operate a primary school, secondary school, a day nursery and an adult learning centre in South Wales for Rhondda Cynon Taf Authority.
Romford Hospital Design, construction, management, nancing, 2004 2040 36 211m Sodexo operation and maintenance of a new hospital Bovis Lend Lease in Romford.
Siemens Shefeld Hospital Design, construction, nancing and management of a 2004 2036 32 26m Dalkia new 168 bed wing at the Shefeld Northern General Hospital for the Shefeld Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Shefeld Schools Design, construct, finance and operate two primary 2005 2031 26 53m Kier schools and two secondary schools for Shefeld City Council.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2012 27.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements continued Start End Number Project Key Project Short description of concession arrangements date date of years Capex subcontractors South Ayrshire Design, construct, finance and operate of three primary 2006 2039 33 76m Mitie Schools schools, two secondary academy schools and a new performing arts annex at an existing academy for South Ayrshire Schools.
Stoke Mandeville Design, finance, construct, refurbish, operate and 2004 2036 30 40m Sodexo Hospital maintain a new hospital facility for the Buckingham Hospitals NHS Trust.
Sussex Custodial Build and service three custody centres in Sussex for 2001 2031 30 20m Reliance Centre Sussex Police Authority.
The centres are at Worthing, Chichester and Brighton.
A fourth centre at Eastbourne was subsequently contracted for as a variation.
Swindon Police Design, construction, management, nancing and 2005 2035 30 20m Vinci operate a new divisional headquarters for the Wiltshire Police Authority.
Tyne & Wear Fire Design, construct, manage, finance and operate seven 2006 2029 23 30m John Laing Stations re station facilities and a headquarters building in Tyne and Wear for the Tyne and Wear Fire and Civil Defence Authority.
West Middlesex Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2001 2036 35 60m Bouygues Hospital a new 228 bed hospital for West Middlesex University Hospital NHS Trust.
Willesden Hospital Design, construct, manage and finance a community 2005 2035 30 24m Accuro hospital in north London for NHS Brent.
Wooldale Centre Wooldale Centre for Learning is an education PFI 2003 2029 26 24m Mitie for Learning project consisting of a Centre for Learning CfL comprising a secondary school with sixth form, public library, primary school and nursery on a large site in Northamptonshire.
110 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 28.
Principal Subsidiaries Name Country Ownership interest HICL Infrastructure 1 SARL Luxembourg 100.0% HICL Infrastructure 2 SARL Luxembourg 100.0% Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership United Kingdom 100.0% Infrastructure Investments Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100.0% United Kingdom 2003 Schools Services Limited 100.0% Ashburton Services Limited United Kingdom 100.0% AGP 2 Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Annes Gate Property PLC United Kingdom 100.0% Boldon School Limited United Kingdom 100.0% ByCentral Limited United Kingdom 100.0% ByWest Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Consort Healthcare Blackburn Funding Plc United Kingdom 100.0% Consort Healthcare Blackburn Limited United Kingdom 100.0% CVS Leasing Limited United Kingdom 87.6% Education 4 Ayrshire Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Enterprise Civic Buildings Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Enterprise Education Conwy Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Enterprise Healthcare Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Metier Healthcare Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Ravensbourne Health Services Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Services Support Cleveland Limited United Kingdom 72.9% Services Support Gravesend Limited United Kingdom 72.9% Services Support Manchester Limited United Kingdom 72.9% THC OJR Limited United Kingdom 100.0% THC QAH Limited United Kingdom 100.0% TW Accommodation Services Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Reporting date 31 December Reporting date 30 September All the consolidated revenues and the material net assets of the subsidiaries above are derived from the United Kingdom.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 111 Directors and Advisers Directors Financial PR Graham Picken Chairman Tulchan Communications LLP Sarah Evans 85 Fleet Street John Hallam London Chris Russell EC4Y 1AE Registrar UK Transfer Agent Capita Registrars Guernsey Limited Capita Registrars Mont Crevelt House The Registry Bulwer Avenue 34 Beckenham Road St. Sampson Beckenham Guernsey Kent GY2 4LH BR3 4TU Helpline: 0871 664 0300 Administrator to Company, Company Secretary and Registered Ofce Auditors Dexion Capital Guernsey Limited KPMG Channel Islands Limited 1, Le Truchot 20 New Street St Peter Port St Peter Port Guernsey Guernsey GY1 1WD GY1 4AN Investment Adviser Broker and Operator Canaccord Genuity Limited Infrared Capital Partners Limited 9th Floor 12 Charles II Street 88 Wood Street London London SW1Y 4QU EC2V 7QR 112 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 1 Le Truchot St Peter Port GY1 3SZ Guernsey t 44 0 1481 743 940 e info@hicl.
com Registered Ofce: 1 Le Truchot St Peter Port Guernsey.
