Information on the scrip dividend scheme and currencies in which shareholders may elect to have the cash dividend paid will be sent to shareholders on or about 3 April 2013.
Interim dividends for 2013 The Board has adopted a policy of paying quarterly interim dividends on the ordinary shares.
Under this policy it is intended to have a pattern of three equal interim dividends with a variable fourth interim dividend.
It is envisaged that the first interim dividend in respect of 2013 will be US$0.10 per ordinary share.
Dividends are declared in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a combination of, US dollars, sterling and Hong Kong dollars, or, subject to the Boards determination that a scrip dividend is to be offered in respect of that dividend, may be satisfied in whole or in part by the issue of new shares in lieu of a cash dividend.
G Morgan ceased to be a Director from the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
2 A Vote Withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes For and Against the resolution.
517 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued IMS and Interim Results Shareholder enquiries and communications Stock symbols Investor relations Interim Management Statements and Interim Results Interim Management Statements are expected to be issued on or around 7 May 2013 and 4 November 2013.
The Interim Results for the six months to 30 June 2013 are expected to be issued on 5 August 2013.
Shareholder enquiries and communications Enquiries Any enquiries relating to shareholdings on the share register, for example transfers of shares, change of name or address, lost share certificates or dividend cheques, should be sent to the Registrars at the address given below.
The Registrars offer an online facility, Investor Centre, which enables shareholders to manage their shareholding electronically.
Principal Register: Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register: Bermuda Overseas Branch Register: Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Hong Kong Investor Investors Relations Team The Pavilions Services Limited HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited th Bridgwater Road Rooms 1712-1716, 17 Floor 6 Front Street Bristol BS99 6ZZ Hopewell Centre Hamilton HM 11 United Kingdom 183 Queens Road East Bermuda Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0137 Hong Kong Telephone: 1 441 299 6737 Email via website: Telephone: 852 2862 8555 Email: www.
co. uk contactus Email: hsbc.
bm Investor Centre: Investor Centre: Investor Centre: www.
com investor bm Any enquiries relating to ADSs should be sent to the depositary: The Bank of New York Mellon Depositary Receipts PO Box 43006 Providence, RI 02940-3006 USA Telephone US : 1 877 283 5786 Telephone International : 1 201 680 6825 Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com shareowner Any enquiries relating to shares held through Euroclear France, the settlement and central depositary system for NYSE Euronext Paris, should be sent to the paying agent: HSBC France 103, avenue des Champs Elyses 75419 Paris Cedex 08 France Telephone: 33 1 40 70 22 56 Email: .
fr If you have been nominated to receive general shareholder communications directly from HSBC Holdings, it is important to remember that your main contact for all matters relating to your investment remains the registered shareholder, or perhaps custodian or broker, who administers the investment on your behalf.
Therefore any changes or queries relating to your personal details and holding including any administration thereof must continue to be directed to your existing contact at your investment manager or custodian.
HSBC Holdings cannot guarantee dealing with matters directed to it in error.
518 Further copies of this Annual Report and Accounts 2012 may be obtained by writing to the following departments: For those in Europe, the Middle East For those in Asia-Pacific: For those in the Americas: and Africa: Global Communications Communications Asia Global Publishing Services HSBC Holdings plc The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking HSBC North America 8 Canada Square Corporation Limited 26525 N Riverwoods Boulevard London E14 5HQ 1 Queens Road Central Mettawa, Illinois 60045 United Kingdom Hong Kong USA Electronic communications Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or to receive a notification of their availability on HSBCs website.
To receive future notifications of the availability of a corporate communication on HSBCs website by email, or revoke or amend an instruction to receive such notifications by email, go to www.
If you provide an email address to receive electronic communications from HSBC, we will also send notifications of your dividend entitlements by email.
If you received a notification of the availability of this document on HSBCs website and would like to receive a printed copy of it, or if you would like to receive future corporate communications in printed form, please write or send an email to the appropriate Registrars at the address given above.
Printed copies will be provided without charge.
Chinese translation A Chinese translation of this Annual Report and Accounts 2012 is available upon request after 3 April 2013 from the Registrars: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited Computershare Investor Services PLC th Rooms 1712-1716, 17 Floor The Pavilions Hopewell Centre Bridgwater Road 183 Queens Road East Bristol BS99 6ZZ Hong Kong United Kingdom Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents or if you have received a Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive such translations in future.
Stock symbols HSBC Holdings ordinary shares trade under the following stock symbols: London Stock Exchange HSBA Euronext Paris HSB Hong Kong Stock Exchange 5 Bermuda Stock Exchange HSBC New York Stock Exchange ADS HBC Investor relations Enquiries relating to HSBCs strategy or operations may be directed to: Manager Investor Relations SVP Investor Relations Head of Investor Relations, Asia-Pacific HSBC Holdings plc HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 8 Canada Square 26525 N Riverwoods Boulevard Corporation Limited London E14 5HQ Mettawa, Illinois 60045 1 Queens Road Central United Kingdom USA Hong Kong Telephone: 44 020 7991 8041 1 224 880 8008 852 2822 4908 Facsimile: 44 0845 587 0225 1 847 383 3331 852 3418 4469 Email: investorrelations@hsbc.
hk 519 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Information Organisation chart Where more information about HSBC is available This Annual Report and Accounts 2012, and other information on HSBC, may be viewed on HSBCs website: www.
Reports, statements and information that HSBC Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available at www.
Investors can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing to the SEC at the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N. E. Washington, DC 20549-0123 or by emailing PublicInfo@sec.
Investors should call the Commission at 202 551 8090 if they require further assistance.
Investors may also obtain the reports and other information that HSBC Holdings files at www.
520 521 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Taxation of shares and dividends Taxation of shares and dividends most cases no amount of the tax credit is, in practice, repayable.
Taxation UK residents Information on the taxation consequences of the The following is a summary, under current law, of HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the certain UK tax considerations that are likely to be 2011 fourth interim dividend and the first, second material to the ownership and disposition of and third interim dividends for 2012 was set out in shares.
The summary does not purport to be the Secretarys letters to shareholders of 27 March, a comprehensive description of all the tax 29 May, 29 August and 7 November 2012.
In no considerations that may be relevant to a holder of case, was the difference between the cash dividend shares.
In particular, the summary deals principally foregone and the market value of the scrip dividend with shareholders who are resident solely in the UK in excess of 15% of the market value.
Accordingly, for UK tax purposes and only with holders who hold the amount of the dividend income chargeable to the shares as investments and who are the beneficial tax, and, the acquisition price of HSBC Holdings owners of the shares, and does not address the tax US$0.50 ordinary shares the shares for UK treatment of certain classes of holders such as capital gains tax purposes, was the cash dividend dealers in securities.
purchasers should consult their own advisers regarding the tax consequences of an investment Taxation of capital gains in shares in light of their particular circumstances, The computation of the capital gains tax liability including the effect of any national, state or local arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings laws.
by shareholders subject to UK tax on capital gains can be complex, partly depending on whether, for Taxation of dividends example, the shares were purchased since April Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by 1991, acquired in 1991 in exchange for shares in HSBC Holdings.
However, dividends are paid with The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation an associated tax credit which is available for set-off Limited, or acquired subsequent to 1991 in exchange by certain shareholders against any liability they for shares in other companies.
Currently, the For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition associated tax credit is equivalent to 10% of the cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account combined cash dividend and tax credit, i. e. one-ninth of subsequent rights and capitalisation issues.
capital gain arising on a disposal by a UK company For individual shareholders who are resident in the may also be adjusted to take account of indexation UK for taxation purposes and liable to UK income allowance.
If in doubt, shareholders are tax at the basic rate, no further UK income tax recommended to consult their professional advisers.
liability arises on the receipt of a dividend from HSBC Holdings.
Individual shareholders who Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax are liable to UK income tax at the higher rate or Transfers of shares by a written instrument of additional rate are taxed on the combined amount transfer generally will be subject to UK stamp duty of the dividend and the tax credit at the dividend at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration paid for the upper rate currently 32.5% and the dividend transfer, and such stamp duty is generally payable additional rate currently 42.5%, respectively.
UK Government has announced that the dividend additional rate will be reduced from 42.5% to 37.5%, An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest with effect on and after 6 April 2013.
The tax credit therein, normally will give rise to a charge to stamp is available for set-off against the dividend upper duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the rate and the dividend additional rate liability.
However, provided an instrument Individual UK resident shareholders are not entitled of transfer of the shares is executed pursuant to the to any tax credit repayment.
agreement and duly stamped before the date on which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, Although non-UK resident shareholders are under the current practice of UK HM Revenue and generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax Customs it will not be necessary to pay the stamp credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be such shareholders may be so entitled under the cancelled.
Stamp duty reserve tax is generally provisions of a double taxation agreement between payable by the transferee.
their country of residence and the UK.
However, in 522 Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the Any US federal tax advice included in this UKs paperless share transfer system, are liable to Annual Report and Accounts is for informational stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the purposes only: it was not intended or written to be consideration.
In CREST transactions, the tax used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of is calculated and payment made automatically.
avoiding US federal tax penalties.
Deposits of shares into CREST generally will not be subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless the transfer Taxation of dividends into CREST is itself for consideration.
Following the Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by case HSBC pursued before the European Court of HSBC Holdings.
A US holder must include cash Justice Case C-569 07 HSBC Holdings plc and dividends paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary Vidacos Nominees Ltd v The Commissioners for income on the date that such holder or the ADS HM Revenue & Customs and a subsequent case in depositary receives them, translating dividends paid relation to depositary receipts, HMRC now accepts in UK pounds sterling into US dollars using the that the charge to stamp duty reserve tax at 1.5% on exchange rate in effect on the date of receipt.
A US the issue of shares to a depositary receipt issuer or a holder that elects to receive shares in lieu of a cash clearance service is prohibited.
dividend must include in ordinary income the fair market value of such shares on the dividend payment Taxation US residents date, and the tax basis of those shares will equal such The following is a summary, under current law, fair market value.
of the principal UK tax and US federal income tax Subject to certain exceptions for positions that considerations that are likely to be material to the are held for less than 61 days or are hedged, and ownership and disposition of shares or American subject to a foreign corporation being considered a Depositary Shares ADSs by a holder that is a qualified foreign corporation which includes not resident of the US for US federal income tax being classified for US federal income tax purposes purposes a US holder and who is not resident as a passive foreign investment company, certain while it remains relevant to the charge to UK capital dividends qualified dividends received by an gains tax ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax individual US holder generally will be subject to US purposes.
Holders and prospective purchasers should taxation at maximum rates.
Based on the companys note that the UK Government has announced that audited financial statements and relevant market and ordinary residence will cease to be relevant to the shareholder data, HSBC Holdings does not charge to UK capital gains tax for the tax year anticipate being classified as a passive foreign 2013-14 and subsequent tax years.
Accordingly, dividends paid The summary does not purport to be a on the shares or ADSs generally should be treated as comprehensive description of all of the tax qualified dividends.
considerations that may be relevant to a holder of shares or ADSs.
In particular, the summary deals Taxation of capital gains only with US holders that hold shares or ADSs as Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other capital assets, and does not address the tax treatment disposition of shares or ADSs normally will not be of holders that are subject to special tax rules, such subject to UK taxation unless at the time of the sale as banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, or other disposition the holder carries on a trade, dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or shares or ADSs as part of an integrated investment agency or permanent establishment and the shares or including a straddle comprised of a share or ADS ADSs are or have been used, held or acquired for the and one or more other positions, and persons that purposes of such trade, profession, vocation, branch own, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the or agency or permanent establishment.
Such gains voting stock of HSBC Holdings.
This discussion will be included in income for US tax purposes, and is based on laws, treaties, judicial decisions and will be long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs regulatory interpretations in effect on the date were held for more than one year.
A long-term hereof, all of which are subject to change.
capital gain realised by an individual holder Holders and prospective purchasers should generally will be subject to US tax at preferential consult their own advisers regarding the tax rates.
consequences of an investment in shares or ADSs in light of their particular circumstances, including the effect of any national, state or local laws.
523 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Taxation of shares and dividends Cautionary statement Inheritance tax The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose paid in connection with the same transfer.
domicile is determined to be the US for the purposes of the United States-United Kingdom Double No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not for such the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or purposes a national of the UK will not, provided written agreement to transfer remain at all times any US federal estate or gift tax chargeable has outside the UK, and provided further that any such been paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the transfer or written agreement to transfer is not individuals death or on a lifetime transfer of shares executed in the UK.
No stamp duty reserve tax will or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares or be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, ADSs i are comprised in a settlement unless, at the an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.
time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the US and was not a national of the UK, ii is US backup withholding tax and information part of the business property of a UK permanent reporting establishment of an enterprise, or iii pertains to Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds a UK fixed base of an individual used for the from the sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within performance of independent personal services.
In the US, or through certain financial intermediaries to such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally provides US holders, are subject to information reporting and a credit against US federal tax liability for the may be subject to a US backup withholding tax amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the unless, in general, the US holder complies with shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance certain certification procedures or is a corporation or tax and to US federal estate or gift tax.
other person exempt from such withholding.
Holders that are not US persons generally are not subject to Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax information reporting or backup withholding tax, ADSs but may be required to comply with applicable If shares are transferred to a clearance service or certification procedures to establish that they are not American Depositary Receipt ADR issuer which US persons in order to avoid the application of such will include a transfer of shares to the Depositary information reporting requirements or backup under the current HMRC practice UK stamp duty withholding tax to payments received within the and or stamp duty reserve tax will be payable.
The US or through certain financial intermediaries.
stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable on the consideration for the transfer and is payable at the aggregate rate of 1.5%.
