HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued HSBC Values Business and operating models Ensuring our conduct matches our values Customer due diligence We are applying a globally consistent approach to the In line with our ambition to be recognised as the knowledge needed to accept or retain a customer relationship.
When any customer or potential customer is considered an worlds leading international bank, we aspire to unacceptable reputational risk or otherwise does not meet lead the industry in our standards of conduct.
As our standards that determination will be applied globally.
international markets become more interconnected Affiliates due diligence and complex and, as threats to the global financial We are building a single central repository holding all required system grow, we are strengthening further the due diligence information on each of our afliates in order to facilitate seamlessly cross-border transactions on behalf of our policies and practices which govern how we do clients.
Bearer shares Like any business, we greatly value our Shares not registered to any owner, but beneficially owned reputation.
HSBCs success over the years is due in by the person who has physical possession of the share certicates, carry inherent risks relating to money laundering no small part to our reputation for trustworthiness and tax evasion.
We have set out minimum, highly restrictive and integrity.
In April 2012, as part of this effort, we standards, applicable in all markets, for dealing with customers committed to adopting and enforcing the highest who utilise bearer shares.
Doing so will help us to achieve three key objectives: We are also reinforcing the status of compliance and standards as an important element of how we strengthen our capabilities to combat the assess and reward senior executives, and rolling out ongoing threat of financial crime: communication, training and assurance programmes make consistent and therefore simplify to ensure that our staff understand and meet their how we monitor and enforce high standards responsibilities.
at HSBC: and We have adopted the UK Code of Practice for ensure that we consistently apply our values the Taxation of Banks and seeks to apply the spirit so as to serve positively the customers and as well as the letter of the law in all the territories in societies who entrust their financial needs to which it operates.
We deal with tax authorities in an HSBC.
We are strengthening our policies and controls with the objective of ensuring Under the supervision of HSBCs Global our services are not used by clients seeking to evade Standards Steering Committee, co-chaired by our their tax obligations.
Group Chief Risk officer and our Chief Legal officer, we are already strengthening policies in A new committee of the HSBC Holdings Board, a number of important areas, described below.
the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, will provide governance, oversight and policy guidance Global standards execution framework priority over the framework of controls and procedures areas designed to identify areas where HSBC may become Financial crime filter exposed and through that exposure, expose the Under the Groups strategy described on page 17, we analyse different markets against five financial lters to help financial system more broadly to financial crime or us determine where to do business and the type of business we system abuse.
can do in line with our values and financial return objectives.
In 2012, we added a sixth lter under which we also analyse Business and operating models all new and existing business to limit activity and client acquisition in jurisdictions with a high risk of financial crime.
Our business model is based on an Tax transparency international network connecting fasterWe are strengthening our policies and controls with the objective of ensuring that HSBCs services are not used by growing and developed markets.
clients seeking to evade their tax obligations.
Our businesses are organised to serve a cohesive Sanctions portfolio of markets, as tabulated below.
We have expanded our application of financial sanctions to ensure that the most demanding standards are enforced for all currencies and in all jurisdictions.
Through application of these Business model standards, we screen clients and all cross-border payments to prevent the use of HSBCs banking services for the benefit of We take deposits from our customers and use these blacklisted countries, companies and individuals.
funds to make loans, either directly or through the Information sharing capital markets.
Our direct lending includes residential and commercial mortgages and overdrafts, We are extending the sharing of key compliance information between different parts of HSBC, to the extent permitted by and term loan facilities.
We finance importers and law, for the purpose of managing our exposure to financial exporters engaged in international trade and provide crime.
14 advances to companies secured on amounts owed to net trading income income from trading them by their customers.
In addition, we offer a wide activities primarily conducted in Global variety of products and financial services including Markets, including Foreign Exchange, Credit, broking, asset management, financial advisory, life Rates and Equities trading.
insurance manufacturing, corporate finance, markets, At our Investor Day in May 2012, we outlined securities services and alternative investments.
We our geographical priorities where we expect future provide these products for clients ranging from growth opportunities to be concentrated.
We have governments to large and mid-market corporates, defined the UK and Hong Kong as our home small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs, high markets, and a further 20 countries as priority net worth individuals and retail customers.
These 22 markets accounted for over 90% of our profit before tax in 2012, and will Our operating income is primarily derived from: be the primary focus of capital deployment.
Network net interest income interest income we earn markets are markets with strong international on customer loans and advances and on our relevance which serve to complement our surplus funds, less interest expense we pay on international network, operating mainly through interest-bearing customer accounts and debt CMB and GB&M.
Our combination of home, securities in issue: priority growth and network markets covers around net fee income fee income we earn from the 85-90% of all international trade and financial flows.
provision of financial services and products to The final category, small markets, includes customers: and those where our operations are of sufficient scale to operate profitably, or markets where we maintain representative offices.
This structure is illustrated below.
HSBCs market structure Hong Kong Middle East and North Latin and Rest of Europe North Africa America America Asia-Pacific Home Hong Kong UK markets Australia France Egypt Canada Argentina Mainland China Germany Saudi Arabia USA Brazil India Switzerland UAE Mexico Priority Indonesia Turkey growth Malaysia markets Singapore Taiwan Vietnam Operations primarily focused on international clients and businesses of CMB and GB&M Network markets Together with home and priority markets these cover 85-90% of international trade and capital flows Markets where HSBC has profitable scale and focused operations Small Representative Offices markets Operating model Holding company HSBC has a matrix management structure which HSBC Holdings plc, the holding company of the includes global businesses, geographical regions and Group, is listed in London, Hong Kong, New York, global functions.
Global businesses are responsible Paris and Bermuda.
HSBC Holdings is the primary for setting globally consistent business strategies provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and and operating models.
Geographical regions execute provides non-equity capital to them when necessary.
business strategies set by the global businesses.
Under authority delegated by the Board of Global functions, including HSBC Technology and HSBC Holdings, the Group Management Board Services, support and facilitate the execution of the GMB is responsible for management and day-tostrategy.
15 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Business and operating models Strategic direction day running of the Group, within the risk appetite set Global businesses by the Board.
The Board, through the GMB, works Our four global businesses are responsible for to ensure that there are sufficient cash resources to developing, implementing and managing their pay dividends to shareholders, interest to business propositions consistently across the Group, bondholders, expenses and taxes.
focusing on profitability and efficiency.
They set HSBC Holdings does not provide core funding their strategies within the confines of the Group to any subsidiary, nor is a lender of last resort and strategy in liaison with the geographical regions, does not carry out any banking business in its are responsible for issuing planning guidance own right.
HSBC has a legal entity-based Group regarding their businesses, are accountable for structure, with subsidiaries operating under their their profit and loss performance, and manage their own boards of directors as separately capitalised, headcount.
ring-fenced entities, implementing Group strategy The main business activities of our global and delivering Group products and services, in most businesses are summarised below.
Further details cases in the country or territory in which they are are provided on page 60. domiciled.
Main business activities by global business Global RBWM CMB GB&M GPB businesses Deposits Deposits Deposits Deposits Account services Payments and cash Payments and cash Account services Liability management management driven Balance sheet management Credit and lending Credit and lending Credit and lending Credit and lending Asset Trade and receivables Asset and trade finance driven finance 13 15 Asset management Commercial insurance Corporate finance Asset management and investments 14 16 Wealth solutions and Markets Financial advisory financial planning 12 Fee driven Securities services Broking 12 Broking and other Corporate finance via 13 Life insurance GB&M manufacturing 17 Alternative investments For footnotes, see page 120.
Geographical regions Global functions The geographical regions share responsibility for Our global functions are Communications, Company executing the strategies set by the global businesses.
Secretaries, Corporate Sustainability, Finance, They represent the Group to clients, regulators, Human Resources, Internal Audit, Legal, Risk employee groups and other stakeholders: allocate including Compliance, Strategy and Planning, capital: manage risk appetite, liquidity and funding Marketing, and HSBC Technology and Services, by legal entity: and are accountable for profit and our global service delivery organisation.
The loss performance in line with global business plans.
global functions establish and manage all policies, processes and delivery platforms relevant to their Within the geographical regions, the Group is activities, are fully accountable for their costs structured as a network of regional banks and locally globally and are responsible for managing their incorporated regulated banking entities.
separately capitalised in accordance with applicable prudential requirements and is required to consider its risk and maintain a capital buffer consistent with the Groups risk appetite for the relevant country or region.
The banking entities manage their own funding and liquidity within parameters set centrally.
