Corporate Governance Responsibility of Directors The Directors consider that they have pursued the actions Directors responsibilities in relation necessary to meet their responsibilities as set out in this statement.
to the financial statements Directors declaration in relation to The following statement sets out the responsibilities of the Directors in relation to the financial statements of both the Group and the relevant audit information Company.
The reports of the independent auditors for the Group Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys and the Company set out their responsibilities in relation to those auditors, each of the Directors confirms that: financial statements.
to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of unaware: and affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial he or she has taken all steps that a Director might reasonably be year and of the profit or loss of the Group and the Company for expected to have taken in order to make himself or herself aware the financial year.
In preparing those financial statements, the of relevant audit information and to establish that the Directors are required to: Companys auditors are aware of that information.
select appropriate accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Directors responsibility statement state whether applicable accounting standards have been The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge and belief that: followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the explained: and applicable accounting standards identified above, give a true prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit unless they consider that to be inappropriate.
or loss of the Company and the Group: and The applicable accounting standards referred to above are: a the Directors report which incorporates the Business review United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK includes a fair review of the development and performance of GAAP for the Company: and b International Financial Reporting the business and the position of the Group and the Company, Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and together with a description of the principal risks and implemented in the UK for the Group.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps The names of the Directors are listed in this Directors report and sufficient accounting records to disclose with reasonable accuracy their details appear on the Board of Directors page.
the financial position of the Company and the Group and to Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to any enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply person in relation to this Annual Report except to the extent that with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any liability and that the Company financial statements and the Directors to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the with section 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. assets of the Company and the Group and, in that context, having The responsibility statement was approved by the Board of proper regard to the establishment of appropriate systems of internal control with a view to the prevention and detection of Directors on 27 February 2013 and signed on its behalf by: fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements and to Richard Burrows provide the auditors with every opportunity to take whatever Chairman steps and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their Ben Stevens audit report.
Finance Director and CIO The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on www.
com in accordance with the UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
106 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012
