Financial Statements Notes on the accounts the advice of independent valuation experts where appropriate.
1 Accounting policies The relevant transactions for 2012 are described in note 26: and Basis of Accounting the exemptions taken under IFRS 1 on the first time adoption of The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance IFRS at 1 January 2004 and, in particular, those relating to with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted goodwill on business combinations which are explained in the by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act accounting policies below.
2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience The financial statements have been prepared under the historical and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the cost convention except as described in the accounting policy below circumstances and constitute managements best judgment at the on financial instruments.
date of the financial statements.
In the future, actual experience may The Group has not adopted any new and amended IFRSs and IFRIC deviate from these estimates and assumptions, which could affect interpretations with effect from 1 January 2012 that have had any the financial statements as the original estimates and assumptions are significant effect on reported profit or equity or on the disclosures in modified, as appropriate, in the year in which the circumstances change.
Basis of consolidation The preparation of the Group financial statements requires The consolidated financial information includes the financial management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and its subsidiary reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the undertakings, together with the Groups share of the results of its disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
The key estimates and assumptions are set out in the accounting A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group, where control is policies below, together with the related notes to the accounts.
the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the The most significant items include: entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
the review of asset values, especially goodwill and impairment Associates and joint ventures comprise investments in undertakings, testing.
The key assumptions used in respect of goodwill and which are not subsidiary undertakings, where the Groups interest in impairment testing are the determination of cash-generating the equity capital is long term and over whose operating and units, the long-term growth rate for cash flow projections and the financial policies the Group exercises a significant influence and, in rate used to discount the cash flow projections.
These are the case of joint ventures, has joint control.
They are accounted for described in note 9: using the equity method.
the estimation of and accounting for retirement benefit costs.
The The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period are determination of the carrying value of assets and liabilities, as well included from the date of acquisition of a controlling interest at which as the charge for the year, and amounts recognised in other date, for the purposes of consolidation, the purchase consideration is comprehensive income, involves judgments made in conjunction allocated between the underlying net assets acquired, including with independent actuaries.
These involve estimates about intangible assets other than goodwill, on the basis of their fair value.
uncertain future events based on the environment in different Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Similarly, the results countries, including life expectancy of scheme members, salary of associates and joint ventures are included from the date of acquiring and pension increases, inflation and expected returns on assets, as significant influence or, in the case of joint ventures, joint control.
well as discount rates and asset values at the year-end.
The The results of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures assumptions used by the Group and sensitivity analysis are which have been sold during the year are included up to the date of described in note 12: disposal.
The profit or loss on sale is calculated by reference to the the estimation of amounts to be recognised in respect of taxation net asset value at the date of disposal, adjusted for purchased and legal matters, and the estimation of other provisions for goodwill previously consolidated in the balance sheet.
liabilities and charges are subject to uncertain future events, may Inter-company balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains extend over several years and so the amount and or timing may arising from inter-company transactions, are eliminated in preparing differ from current assumptions.
The accounting policy for taxation the consolidated financial statements.
is explained below and the recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities, together with a note of unrecognised amounts, are Foreign currencies shown in note 6 b and note 13.
Other provisions for liabilities and The functional currency of the Parent Company is sterling and this is charges are as set out in note 22.
The accounting policy on also the presentation currency of the Group.
The income and cash contingent liabilities, which are not provided for, is set out below flow statements of Group undertakings expressed in currencies and the contingent liabilities of the Group are explained in note 30: other than sterling are translated to sterling using exchange rates the definition of adjusting items, which are separately disclosed as applicable to the dates of the underlying transactions.
Average rates memorandum information, is explained below and the impact of of exchange in each year are used where the average rate these on the calculation of adjusted earnings is described in note 7: approximates the relevant exchange rate at the date of the underlying transactions.
Assets and liabilities of Group undertakings the estimation of the fair values of acquired net assets arising in a are translated at the applicable rates of exchange at the end of each business combination and the allocation of the purchase year.
For hyperinflationary countries, the financial statements in local consideration between the underlying net assets acquired, currency are adjusted to reflect the impact of local inflation prior to including intangible assets other than goodwill, on the basis of translation into sterling.
These estimates are prepared in conjunction with 114 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements For defined benefit schemes, the actuarial cost charged to profit 1 Accounting policies continued from operations consists of current service cost, interest cost, The differences between retained profits of overseas subsidiary expected return on plan assets, past service cost and the impact of undertakings, associates and joint ventures translated at average any settlements or curtailments.
and closing rates of exchange are taken to reserves, as are differences arising on the retranslation to sterling using closing rates Some benefits are provided through defined contribution schemes of exchange of overseas net assets at the beginning of the year.
Any and payments to these are charged as an expense as they fall due.
differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004 are presented as a separate component of equity.
As permitted under IFRS 1, any Share-based payments differences prior to that date are not included in this separate The Group has equity-settled and cash-settled share-based component of equity.
Where a disposal of an investment in a Group undertaking results in Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the a loss of control of a subsidiary undertaking, the loss of significant date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equityinfluence over an associated company or the loss of joint control settled share-based payments is expensed over the vesting period, over a joint venture, the cumulative amount of the related foreign based on the Groups estimate of awards that will eventually vest.
For exchange differences deferred in the separate component of equity plans where vesting conditions are based on total shareholder returns, are recognised in the income statement when the gain or loss on the fair value at date of grant reflects these conditions, whereas earnings disposal is recognised.
These related exchange differences comprise per share vesting conditions are reflected in the calculation of awards the exchange differences on all amounts deemed to be part of the that will eventually vest over the vesting period.
For cash-settled sharenet investment in the undertaking, which are recycled to the income based payments, a liability equal to the portion of the services received is statement when a disposal occurs.
For partial disposals of subsidiary recognised at its current fair value determined at each balance sheet undertakings the related exchange differences are reclassified within date.
Fair value is measured by the use of the Black-Scholes option equity.
For all other partial disposals the proportional share of the pricing model, except where vesting is dependent on market conditions related exchange differences is recycled to the income statement.
when the Monte-Carlo option pricing model is used.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best Foreign currency transactions are initially recognised in the functional estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and currency of each entity in the Group using the exchange rate ruling at behavioural considerations.
the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of Research and development foreign currency assets and liabilities at year-end rates of exchange are Research expenditure is charged to income in the year in which it is recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to income in the year qualifying cash flow hedges, on inter-company net investment loans it is incurred, unless it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38 and qualifying net investment hedges.
Foreign exchange gains or losses Intangible Assets.
recognised in the income statement are included in profit from operations or net finance costs depending on the underlying Taxation transactions that gave rise to these exchange differences.
Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, together with deferred taxation.
Revenue The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax laws Revenue principally comprises sales of cigarettes, cigars, leaf and enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date in the other tobacco products to external customers.
Revenue excludes countries where the Groups subsidiaries, associates and joint duty, excise and other taxes and is after deducting rebates, returns ventures operate and generate taxable income.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to a third party.
Deferred taxation is provided in full using the liability method for temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and Retirement benefit costs liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amount used for The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary schemes.
The net deficit or surplus for each defined benefit pension differences arising on investments in Group undertakings, except scheme is calculated in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is based on the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the controlled by the Group and it is probable that it will not reverse in balance sheet date less the fair value of the scheme assets adjusted, the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the where appropriate, for any surplus restrictions or the effect of extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available minimum funding requirements.
against which the asset can be utilised.
As required under IAS 12 Income Taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Actuarial gains and losses, changes in unrecognised scheme surpluses and minimum funding requirements are recognised in full Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been through other comprehensive income.
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or Past service costs resulting from enhanced benefits are expensed deferred tax liability is settled.
over the period to vesting and if they vest immediately, then they are recognised at that time in the income statement.
The Group also has certain post-retirement healthcare schemes and they are accounted for on a similar basis to the defined benefit pension schemes.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 115 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued of the operating companies in the Group.
These assets are amortised on 1 Accounting policies continued a straight-line basis over periods not exceeding ten years.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or The investments in associates and joint ventures shown in the directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other Group balance sheet include trademarks arising from the comprehensive income or changes in equity.
combination of Brown & Williamson B&W and R J Reynolds RJR in 2004 to form Reynolds American Inc. RAI, as well as those The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery of a arising on the acquisition of Conwood by RAI in 2006.
Liabilities or assets for these payments or recoveries combination of B&W and RJR for the Group involved the partial are recognised at such time as an outcome becomes probable and when the amount can reasonably be estimated.
disposal of B&W and an investment in RAI, fair values were assigned to trademarks formerly owned by RJR but not to those formerly Goodwill owned by B&W.
Most of the carrying value of the trademarks relates Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is considered to to trademarks which are deemed to have indefinite lives and each have an indefinite life subject to impairment reviews.
Any trademark is subject to an annual impairment test.
Certain minor impairment of goodwill is recognised immediately in the income trademarks are being amortised over their remaining lives.
statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Property, plant and equipment Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated subsidiary, associate or joint venture over the Groups share of the depreciation and impairment.
Depreciation is calculated on a fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill is stated at straight-line basis to write off the assets over their useful economic cost net of accumulated impairment losses and recognised life.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets classified amortisation prior to 1 January 2004. as held for sale.
Freehold and leasehold property are depreciated at The Groups policy up to and including 1997 was to eliminate rates between 2.5% and 4% per annum, and plant and equipment goodwill against reserves.
Goodwill acquired from 1998 to 31 at rates between 7% and 25% per annum.
December 2003 was capitalised and amortised over its useful Capitalised interest economic life.
Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, As permitted under IFRS 1, in respect of acquisitions prior to 1 construction or production of intangible assets or property, plant January 2004, the classification and accounting treatment of and equipment that takes a substantial period of time to get ready business combinations was not amended on transition to IFRS.
for its intended use or sale, and for which the commencement date Goodwill previously written off direct to reserves is not recycled to for capitalisation was on or after 1 January 2009, are capitalised as the income statement on the disposal of the subsidiary, associate or part of the cost of the asset, in accordance with IAS 23 Borrowing joint venture to which it relates.
The Groups previous policy was to expense such borrowing Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
In costs as they were incurred.
respect of associates and joint ventures, goodwill is included in the Leased assets carrying value of the investment in the associated company or joint Assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of venture.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases and are attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of included as part of property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease the profit or loss on disposal.
assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of Intangible assets other than goodwill their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease The intangible assets shown on the Group balance sheet consist payments at inception of the lease, then depreciated over the mainly of trademarks and similar intangibles, including certain shorter of the lease term and their estimated useful lives.
Leasing intellectual property, acquired by the Groups subsidiary payments consist of capital and finance charge elements and the undertakings and computer software.
finance element is charged to the income statement.
Acquired trademarks and similar assets are carried at cost less Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the income accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Trademarks with statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
indefinite lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for Where arrangements are entered into which, while they are not in impairment.
Intangible assets other than goodwill classified as heldthe legal form of a lease, are in substance a lease under IFRIC 4, then for-sale are not amortised.
Other trademarks and similar assets are they are recognised on the same basis as the leased assets above.
amortised on a straight-line basis over their remaining useful lives, consistent with the pattern of economic benefits expected to be Impairment of non-financial assets received, which do not exceed 20 years.
Any impairments of Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events indicate that trademarks are recognised in the income statement but increases in the carrying amount of a cash-generating unit may not be trademark values are not recognised.
In addition, assets that have indefinite useful lives are tested annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised to Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and the extent that the carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets impairment, and, with the exception of global software solutions, is fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
amortised on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from three years to seven years.
Global software solutions are software assets designed to be implemented on a global basis and used as a standard solution by all 116 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements payment or significant overdue balances.
For interest-bearing assets, 1 Accounting policies continued their carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Available-forA cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets sale investments are stated at fair value, with changes in fair value that generates cash flows which are largely independent of the cash being recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
When flows from other assets or groups of assets.
At the acquisition date, such investments are derecognised e. g. through disposal or any goodwill acquired is allocated to the relevant cash-generating become impaired, the accumulated gains and losses, previously unit or group of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the recognised in other comprehensive income, are reclassified to the acquisition for the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill.
income statement within finance income.
Dividend and interest Impairment of financial assets income on available-for-sale investments are included within finance Financial assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date, or whenever income when the Groups right to receive payments is established.
events indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
In the Fair values for quoted investments are based on observable market case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prices.
If there is no active market for a financial asset, the fair value is prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost is established by using valuation techniques principally involving considered as an indicator that the investment is impaired.
Inventories Non-derivative financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For borrowings, their carrying value includes Cost is based on the weighted average cost incurred in acquiring accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
inventories and bringing them to their existing location and Derivative financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, and condition, which will include raw materials, direct labour and subsequently measured, at fair value, which includes accrued overheads, where appropriate.
Net realisable value is the estimated interest receivable and payable where relevant.
Changes in their fair selling price less costs to completion and sale.
Tobacco inventories values are recognised as follows: which have an operating cycle that exceeds 12 months are classified for derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, the as current assets, consistent with recognised industry practice.
changes in their fair values are recognised directly in other Financial instruments comprehensive income, to the extent that they are effective, with Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the the ineffective portion being recognised in the income statement.
Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant Where the hedged item results in a non-financial asset, the instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised in other provisions.
Such assets and liabilities are classified as current if they comprehensive income, are included in the initial carrying value of the asset basis adjustment and recognised in the income are expected to be realised or settled within 12 months after the statement in the same periods as the hedged item.
Where the balance sheet date.
If not, they are classified as non-current.
underlying transaction does not result in such an asset, the Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair accumulated gains and losses are reclassified to the income value, plus directly attributable transaction costs where applicable, statement in the same periods as the hedged item: with subsequent measurement as set out below.
for derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges, the carrying Non-derivative financial assets are classified on initial recognition as value of the hedged item is adjusted for the fair value changes available-for-sale investments, loans and receivables or cash and attributable to the risk being hedged, with the corresponding entry cash equivalents as follows: being made in the income statement.
The changes in fair value of these derivatives are also recognised in the income statement: Available-for-sale investments: available-for-sale investments are those non-derivative financial assets that cannot be classified as for derivatives that are designated as hedges of net investments in loans and receivables or cash and cash equivalents.
foreign operations, the changes in their fair values are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, to the extent that they Loans and receivables: these are non-derivative financial assets with are effective, with the ineffective portion being recognised in the fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Where non-derivatives such as foreign Cash and cash equivalents: cash and cash equivalents include cash currency borrowings are designated as net investment hedges, in hand and deposits held on call, together with other short-term the relevant exchange differences are similarly recognised.
The highly liquid investments including investments in certain money accumulated gains and losses are reclassified to the income market funds.
Cash equivalents normally comprise instruments with statement when the foreign operation is disposed of: and maturities of three months or less at date of acquisition.
In the cash for derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank designated as hedges, the changes in their fair values are recognised overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings in the liabilities in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
section on the balance sheet.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to Apart from available-for-sale investments, non-derivative financial document prospectively the relationship between the item being assets are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged amounts.
These estimates for irrecoverable amounts are recognised item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will when there is objective evidence that the full amount receivable will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is not be collected according to the original terms of the asset.
Such reperformed periodically to ensure that the hedge has remained, and evidence might include financial difficulties of the debtor, defaults of is expected to remain, highly effective.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 117 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued Provisions 1 Accounting policies continued Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument is obligation as a result of a past event exists at the balance sheet date, derecognised e. g. through expiry or disposal, or no longer it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required qualifies for hedge accounting.
Where the hedged item is a highly to settle the obligation and a reasonable estimate can be made of probable forecast transaction, the related gains and losses remain in the amount of the obligation.
equity until the transaction takes place, when they are reclassified to the income statement in the same manner as for cash flow hedges Contingent liabilities and contingent assets as described above.
When a hedged future transaction is no longer Subsidiaries and associates and joint ventures companies are expected to occur, any related gains and losses, previously defendants in tobacco-related and other litigation.
Provision for this recognised in other comprehensive income, are immediately litigation would be made at such time as an unfavourable outcome reclassified to the income statement.
became probable and the amount could be reasonably estimated.
Derivative fair value changes recognised in the income statement are Contingent assets are possible assets whose existence will only be either reflected in arriving at profit from operations if the hedged confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of the item is similarly reflected or in finance costs.
entity and are not recognised as assets until the realisation of income is virtually certain.
Dividends Final dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are The Group records its external legal fees and other external defence recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the costs for tobacco-related and other litigation as these costs are incurred.
period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, while interim dividend Repurchase of share capital distributions are recognised in the period in which the dividends are When share capital is repurchased the amount of consideration paid, declared and paid.
including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares Segmental analysis purchased for the employee share ownership trusts, are classified as The Group is organised and managed on the basis of its geographic treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
These are the reportable segments for the Group as they form the focus of the Groups internal reporting systems and are the Future changes to accounting policies basis used by the chief operating decision maker, identified as the Certain changes to IFRS will be applicable to the Group financial Management Board, for assessing performance and allocating statements in future years.
Set out below are those which are resources.
considered to affect the Group.
The Group is primarily a single product business providing IAS 19 Employee Benefits has been revised and has mandatory cigarettes and other tobacco products.
While the Group has clearly application from 1 January 2013.
The new standard does not differentiated brands, global segmentation between a wide portfolio substantially change the values of retirement benefit assets and of brands is not part of the regular internally reported financial liabilities on the balance sheet, but does change the amounts information.
The results of next-generation products are not recognised in the income statement and in other comprehensive currently material to the Group.
The expected return on plan assets and the interest cost on liabilities are replaced by a new component of the income statement The prices agreed between Group companies for intra-group sales charge interest on the net retirement benefit asset liability.
In of materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, addition, past service costs will no longer be deferred and will be commissions, services and fees, are based on normal commercial recognised immediately.
The revised standard has retrospective practices which would apply between independent businesses.
Had the standard been applied to the 2012 results, Royalty income, less related expenditure, is included in the region in profit for the year would have been approximately 47 million lower which the licensor is based.
2011: 54 million lower, with a compensating credit in other comprehensive income.
Adjusting items Adjusting items are significant items in the profit from operations, An amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements has net finance costs, taxation and the Groups share of the post-tax been issued.
This amendment changes the disclosure of items results of associates and joint ventures which individually or, if of a presented in other comprehensive income grouping them into similar type, in aggregate, are relevant to an understanding of the items which recycle to profit and loss and items which will not.
While the disclosure of Apart from the change in disclosure, this amendment will have little adjusting items is not required by IFRS, these items are separately impact on the Group financial statements.
Mandatory application is disclosed either as memorandum information on the face of the for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012. income statement and in the segmental analyses, or in the notes to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements the accounts as appropriate.
and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities have been issued The Group believes that these items are useful to users of the Group along with revised versions of IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements financial statements in helping them to understand the underlying and IAS 28 Associates: additionally IAS 31 Joint Ventures has business performance and are used to derive the Groups principal been withdrawn.
These standards form a single package of non-GAAP measure which is adjusted diluted earnings per share.
proposals with mandatory application in the EU from 1 January 2014.
The aim of these standards is to improve the quality 118 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies continued of reporting in relation to the consolidation of subsidiaries, special purpose vehicles and accounting for joint arrangements.
The Group intends to early adopt these new and revised standards with effect from 1 January 2013.
While the requirements of IFRS 12 will potentially lengthen certain disclosures in respect of Group entities, the requirements of these standards are not expected to materially affect the Group in its present form.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement has been issued.
This standard aims to provide a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRS.
The implementation of IFRS 13 does not change where fair value is or is not applied under IFRS and will not require a restatement of historical transactions.
Mandatory application is from 1 January 2013.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments has been issued.
This standard represented the first phase of the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and has mandatory application for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
In its current form, it sets out the classification and measurement criteria for financial assets and financial liabilities.
It requires all financial assets, including assets currently classified under IAS 39 as available-for-sale, to be measured at fair value through profit and loss unless the assets can be classified as held at amortised cost.
Qualifying equity investments held at fair value may have their fair value changes taken through other comprehensive income by election.
Where the fair value option for certain financial liabilities is applied, the portion of fair value changes representing own credit risk would be recognised through other comprehensive income rather than the income statement.
The Group does not use the fair value option for financial liabilities.
The effect of applying the standard in its current form is not considered to have a material impact on the Groups reported profit or equity.
The impact on the Group of further changes to IFRS 9 and the impact of the second and third phases of the project, covering impairment and hedge accounting respectively, will be assessed when the IASB has finalised the proposed requirements.
IFRS 9 has not been endorsed by the EU and will only become applicable once that endorsement has occurred.
In addition, a number of other interpretations and revisions to existing standards have been issued which will be applicable to the Group financial statements in future years and which will have no material effect on reported profit or equity or on the disclosures in the financial statements.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 119 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 2 Segmental analyses As the chief operating decision maker, the Management Board reviews external revenues and adjusted profit from operations to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources.
Interest income, interest expense and taxation are centrally managed and accordingly such items are not presented by segment as they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability.
The four geographic regions are the reportable segments for the Group as they form the focus of the Groups internal reporting systems and are the basis used by the Management Board for assessing performance and allocating resources.
The results of next-generation products are not currently material to the Group and are included within the Western Europe region.
The Management Board reviews current and prior year segmental revenue, adjusted profit from operations of subsidiaries and adjusted post-tax results of associates and joint ventures at constant rates of exchange.
The constant rate comparison provided for reporting segment information is based on a retranslation, at prior year exchange rates, of the current year results of the Groups overseas entities but, other than in exceptional circumstances, does not adjust for transactional gains and losses in operations which are generated by movements in exchange rates.
As a result, the 2012 segmental results were translated using the 2011 rates of exchange.
The 2011 figures are also stated at the 2011 rates of exchange.
The analyses of revenue for the 12 months to 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, based on location of sales, are as follows: 2012 2011 Revenue Revenue Translation Constant Current rates exchange rates Revenue m m m m Asia-Pacific 4,224 10 4,214 4,251 Americas 3,742 282 3,460 3,558 Western Europe 3,682 240 3,442 3,600 EEMEA 4,351 277 4,074 3,990 Revenue 15,999 809 15,190 15,399 The analyses of profit from operations and the Groups share of the post-tax results of associates and joint ventures, reconciled to profit before taxation, are as follows: 2012 2011 Adjusted Adjusted segment segment Segment result result result Adjusted Segment Constant Translation Current Adjusting Current Adjusting Segment rates exchange rates items rates Result items result m m m m m m m m Asia-Pacific 1,653 13 1,666 80 1,586 1,539 58 1,481 Americas 1,544 129 1,415 64 1,351 1,441 15 1,426 Western Europe 1,262 76 1,186 99 1,087 1,228 153 1,075 EEMEA 1,511 97 1,414 26 1,388 1,311 298 1,013 5,970 289 5,681 269 5,412 5,519 524 4,995 Fox River 274 274 Profit from operations 5,970 289 5,681 269 5,412 5,519 798 4,721 Net finance costs 456 460 Asia-Pacific 277 32 245 20 265 225 28 253 Americas 445 5 450 25 425 432 17 415 EEMEA 2 2 2 2 2 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 724 27 697 5 692 659 11 670 Profit before taxation 5,648 4,931 The adjustments to profit from operations and the Groups share of the post-tax results of associates and joint ventures are explained in notes 3 e to 3 h and in note 5, respectively.
The Fox River provision made in 2011 see note 3 h and note 30 has not been allocated to a segment or segments as it relates to a 1998 settlement agreement.
It is presented separately from the segmental reporting which is used to evaluate segment performance and to allocate resources.
120 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2 Segmental analyses continued Adjusted profit from operations at constant rates of 5,970 million 2011: 5,519 million excludes certain depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges as explained in notes 3 b and 3 e to 3 g. These are excluded from segmental profit from operations at constant rates as follows: 2012 2011 Adjusted Adjusted Depreciation, depreciation depreciation amortisation Adjusted Depreciation, and and and depreciation amortisation amortisation Translation amortisation Adjusting impairment and Adjusting and Constant rates exchange Current rates items Current rates amortisation items impairment m m m m m m m m Asia-Pacific 90 1 89 22 111 106 31 137 Americas 112 8 104 25 129 127 5 132 Western Europe 98 6 92 34 126 103 55 158 EEMEA 106 5 101 8 109 111 279 390 406 20 386 89 475 447 370 817 External revenue and non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and retirement benefit assets are analysed between the UK and all foreign countries at current rates of exchange as follows: United Kingdom All foreign countries Group 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Revenue is based on location of sale m m m m m m External revenue 139 124 15,051 15,275 15,190 15,399 United Kingdom All foreign countries Group 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m m m Intangible assets 306 173 11,404 11,819 11,710 11,992 Property, plant and equipment 375 188 2,826 2,859 3,201 3,047 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2,330 2,613 2,330 2,613 Included in the external revenue from foreign countries is 1,607 million 2011: 1,732 million attributable to Brazil, being the only subsidiary contributing more than 10% of the Groups external revenue in 2012 and 2011.
The main acquisitions comprising the goodwill balance of 10,793 million 2011: 11,120 million in intangible assets are provided in note 9.
Included in investments in associates and joint ventures are amounts of 1,496 million 2011: 1,831 million attributable to the investment in Reynolds American Inc. and 793 million 2011: 735 million attributable to the investment in ITC Ltd. Further information can be found in note 11.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 121 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 3 Profit from operations a Employee benefit costs 2012 2011 m m Wages and salaries 1,907 2,059 Social security costs 257 247 Other pension and retirement benefit costs note 12 131 98 Share-based payments equity-settled note 27 73 76 Share-based payments cash-settled note 27 18 21 2,386 2,501 b Depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs 2012 2011 m m Intangibles amortisation of trademarks and similar intangibles note 3 f 63 58 amortisation of other intangibles 53 92 impairment 273 Property, plant and equipment depreciation 347 366 impairment 12 28 475 817 Impairment of intangibles is explained in note 3 g. Impairment in respect of certain other intangibles and property, plant and equipment is shown as part of restructuring costs see note 3 e. c Other operating income This represents operating income arising from the Groups activities which falls outside the definition of revenue and includes gains as a result of property disposals, service fees and other shared costs charged to third parties, manufacturing fees and trademark income.
122 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 3 Profit from operations continued d Other operating expenses include: 2012 2011 m m Research and development expenses excluding employee benefit costs and depreciation 93 81 Exchange differences 50 38 Rent of plant and equipment operating leases minimum lease payments 41 42 Rent of property operating leases minimum lease payments 74 85 sublease payments 1 2 Fees payable for audit services pursuant to legislation: fees payable to  LLP for parent company and Group audit 1.8 1.7 fees payable to other  firms and associates for local statutory and Group reporting audits 7.7 8.0 Audit fees payable to  firms and associates 9.5 9.7 Audit fees payable to other firms 0.5 0.4 Total audit fees payable 10.0 10.1 Fees payable to  firms and associates for other services: audit-related assurance services 1.0 0.2 other assurance services 0.2 tax advisory services 2.5 3.8 tax compliance 0.9 1.3 other non-audit services 0.5 0.6 5.1 5.9 The total fees payable to  firms and associates included above are 14.6 million 2011: 15.6 million.
Total research and development costs including employee benefit costs and depreciation were 171 million 2011: 166 million.
In 2011, other operating expenses also include the Fox River provision which was made in that year and is explained in note 30. e Restructuring and integration costs Restructuring costs reflect the costs incurred as a result of initiatives to improve the effectiveness and the efficiency of the Group as a globally integrated enterprise, including the relevant operating costs of implementing the new operating model.
The new operating model includes revised organisation structures, standardised processes and shared back office services underpinned by a global single instance of SAP.
The new organisation structures and processes are currently being implemented and the deployment of the new SAP system started in the third quarter of 2012 and will take around four years to fully roll out.
Other initiatives include a review of the Groups manufacturing operations, supply chain, overheads and indirect costs.
The costs of these initiatives together with the costs of integrating acquired businesses into existing operations, including acquisition costs, are included in profit from operations under the following headings: 2012 2011 m m Employee benefit costs 96 100 Depreciation and impairment costs 26 39 Other operating expenses 100 72 Other operating income 16 18 206 193 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 123 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 3 Profit from operations continued Restructuring and integration costs in 2012 principally relate to the implementation of the new operating model, the continuation of the factory closure and downsizing activities in Australia and the restructuring in Argentina.
The costs also cover the social plan and other activities relating to the Bremen factory closure in Germany, the integration of Productora Tabacalera fide Colombia, S. A. S. Protabaco into existing operations, as well as the write-off of non-compliant products and materials related to the implementation of plain packaging in Australia.
In addition, they also include separation packages in respect of permanent headcount reductions and permanent employee benefit reductions in the Group.
Restructuring and integration costs in 2011 principally related to: factory closure and downsizing activities in Denmark and Australia respectively: a voluntary separation scheme and closure of the printing unit in Argentina: the closure of the Jawornik factory in Poland, the Tire factory in Turkey and the Lecce factory in Italy.
The costs also cover the social plan and other closure activities relating to the Bremen factory closure in Germany and the integration of Productora Tabacalera fide Colombia, S. A. S. Protabaco into existing operations, including acquisition costs, as well as other restructuring initiatives directly related to improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the Group as a globally integrated enterprise.
Other operating income in 2012 includes gains from the sale of land and buildings in the UK and South Africa and the release of deferred income from a disposal in 2007.
In 2011, other operating income also includes gains from sale of surplus land and buildings in Argentina and the release of deferred income from a disposal in 2007. f Amortisation of trademarks and similar intangibles The acquisitions of Protabaco, Bentoel, Tekel, ST and CN Creative Limited see note 26 a resulted in the capitalisation of trademarks and similar intangibles which are amortised over their expected useful lives, which do not exceed 20 years.
The amortisation charge of 63 million 2011: 58 million is included in depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs in profit from operations.
g Goodwill impairment In 2011, the Group impaired the remaining balance of the goodwill in respect of the Tekel acquisition in 2008, amounting to 273 million.
Although cost saving initiatives in the acquisition plan have been delivered successfully, the impairment charge arose as a result of further increases in excise announced by the Turkish government effective from October 2011 and an additional increase effective from January 2013.
The excise increases to date have resulted in the growth of illicit trade and a loss of volumes and market share.
Turkey remains an important strategic market for the Group.
The basis for determining the recoverable amounts of goodwill is explained in note 9. h Fox River In 2011, a provision of 274 million was made for a potential claim under a 1998 settlement agreement entered into by a Group subsidiary in respect of the clean up of sediment in the lower Fox River.
This is explained in more detail in note 30.
124 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 4 Net finance costs 2012 2011 m m Finance costs interest payable bank borrowings 83 82 finance leases 1 1 facility fees 10 8 other 486 476 580 567 fair value changes on derivative financial instruments 71 12 exchange differences on financial liabilities 4 2 505 577 Finance income interest and dividend income gains in respect of available-for-sale investments 1 1 dividend income in respect of available-for-sale investments 2 2 other interest income 81 79 84 82 exchange differences on financial assets 35 35 49 117 Net finance costs 456 460 The Group manages foreign exchange gains and losses and fair value changes on a net basis, as shown below.
The derivatives that generate the fair value changes are detailed in note 16.
Fair value changes cash flow hedges transferred from equity 35 9 fair value hedging instruments exchange related movements 3 4 fair value hedging instruments net interest income 66 62 fair value hedging instruments interest related movements see note i 29 51 fair value changes on hedged items interest related movements see note i 31 39 instruments held-for-trading see note ii 45 73 71 12 Finance costs exchange differences on financial liabilities 4 2 Finance income exchange differences on financial assets 35 35 40 25 Notes: i Hedge ineffectiveness in respect of fair value hedges is a 2 million loss 2011: 12 million gain being the difference between the two items above.
ii IFRS requires derivatives which do not meet the tests for hedge accounting under IAS 39 to be classified as instruments held-for-trading with fair value changes included in the income statement.
These derivatives principally consist of other derivatives shown in note 16 d and forward foreign currency contracts which have not been designated as hedges due to their fair value changes offsetting with other components of net finance costs relating to financial assets and liabilities.
Other interest payable includes interest on the bonds and notes detailed in note 21.
Facility fees principally relate to the Groups central undrawn banking facilities of 2 billion and US$150 million and the Groups 450 million term loan facility which was repaid during 2012 2011: 2 billion and the Groups 450 million term loan facility.
Exchange differences in respect of hedged items subject to fair value hedges and cash flow hedges were a gain of 3 million 2011: 4 million gain and a gain of 28 million 2011: 9 million gain respectively and are included in Finance costs exchange differences in the table above.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 125 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 5 Associates and joint ventures 2012 2011 Groups Groups Total share Total share m m m m Gross turnover including duty, excise and other taxes 12,733 4,798 12,841 4,864 Duty, excise and other taxes 3,927 1,488 4,053 1,541 Revenue 8,806 3,310 8,788 3,323 Profit from operations 2,980 1,113 2,861 1,066 Net finance costs 160 66 149 62 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2,820 1,047 2,712 1,004 Taxation on ordinary activities 936 352 881 331 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 1,884 695 1,831 673 Attributable to: Owners of parent company 692 670 Non-controlling interests 3 3 695 673 Analysed as: adjusted share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 697 659 issue of shares and change in shareholding 66 20 91 28 smoking cessation programme 55 23 gain on disposal of business 51 22 restructuring and integration costs 57 24 9 4 change in post-retirement obligations 58 24 other 59 25 28 12 692 670 Dividends listed investments 476 479 unlisted investments 11 7 487 486 The share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures is after the following adjusting items which are excluded from the calculation of adjusted earnings per share as set out in note 7: In 2012, the Groups interest in ITC decreased from 31.04% to 30.72% as a result of ITC issuing ordinary shares under the companys employee stock option scheme.
The issue of shares and change in the Groups share of ITC resulted in a gain of 20 million, which is treated as a deemed partial disposal and included in the income statement.
During the year, Reynolds American recognised restructuring charges of US$149 million in respect of its overall activities.
The Groups share of these charges is 24 million net of tax.
In addition, Reynolds American amended a post-retirement medical plan that resulted in a gain of US$157 million and the Groups share of this gain is 24 million net of tax.
Reynolds American has also recognised amounts which have been combined in the table of adjusting items and reported in other.
These mainly consist of a charge of US$37 million in respect of a number of Engle progeny lawsuits, the Groups share of these costs is 6 million net of tax and trademark amortisation and impairment of US$86 million, the Groups share of these charges amounts to 16 million net of tax.
126 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 5 Associates and joint ventures continued In 2011, the Groups interest in ITC decreased from 31.43% to 31.04% as a result of ITC issuing ordinary shares under the companys employee stock option scheme.
This resulted in a gain of 28 million, which was treated as a deemed partial disposal and included in the income statement.
During 2011, Reynolds American, along with other tobacco companies, was refused by the US Supreme Court a request to revoke a 2009 order requiring them to finance a US$278 million smoking cessation programme in Louisiana Scott case.
The Groups share of this charge amounted to 23 million net of tax.
In March 2011, Reynolds American sold Lane Limited for US$205 million in cash.
The Groups share of the gain on the disposal of this business amounted to 22 million net of tax.
In addition, during 2011, Reynolds American recognised restructuring charges of US$23 million and the Groups share of these charges amounted to 4 million net of tax.
In the year ended 31 December 2011, Reynolds American recognised amounts which have been combined in the table of adjusting items and reported in other.
These mainly consist of a charge of US$64 million in respect of four Engle progeny lawsuits that have proceeded through the appellate process in the state of Florida, the Groups share of this charge amounted to 10 million net of tax : trademark amortisation and impairment of US$47 million, the Groups share of these charges amounted to 8 million net of tax and US$16 million and US$11 million of tax credits and interest, respectively, the Groups share of these credits amounted to 6 million net of tax.
6 Taxation on ordinary activities a Summary of taxation on ordinary activities 2012 2011 m m UK corporation tax Comprising: current year tax expense 13 14 double taxation relief 13 14 Overseas tax 1,538 1,470 Comprising: current year tax expense 1,556 1,449 adjustments in respect of prior periods 18 21 Total current tax 1,538 1,470 Deferred tax 12 86 Comprising: deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 12 84 deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates 2 1,526 1,556 b Franked Investment Income Group Litigation Order British American Tobacco is the principal test claimant in an action in the United Kingdom against HM Revenue and Customs in the Franked Investment Income Group Litigation Order FII GLO.
There are 25 corporate groups in the FII GLO.
The case concerns the treatment for UK corporate tax purposes of profits earned overseas and distributed to the UK.
The claim was filed in 2003 and the case was heard in the European Court of Justice ECJ in 2005 and a decision of the ECJ received in December 2006.
In July 2008, the case reverted to a trial in the UK High Court for the UK Court to determine how the principles of the ECJ decision should be applied in a UK context.
The High Court judgment in November 2008 concluded, amongst many other things, that dividends received from EU subsidiaries should have been exempt from UK taxation.
It also concluded that certain dividends received before 5 April 1999 from the EU and, in some limited circumstances after 1993 from outside the EU, should have been treated as franked investment income with the consequence that advance corporation tax ACT need not have been paid.
Claims for the repayment of UK tax incurred where the dividends were from the EU were allowed back to 1973.
The tentative conclusion reached by the High Court would, if upheld, produce an estimated receivable of about 1.2 billion for British American Tobacco.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 127 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 6 Taxation on ordinary activities continued The case was heard by the Court of Appeal in October 2009 and the judgment handed down on 23 February 2010.
The Court of Appeal determined that various questions, including which companies in the corporate tree can be included in a claim, should be referred back to the ECJ for further clarification.
In addition, the Court determined that the claim should be restricted to six years and not cover claims dating back to 1973.
The issue of time limits was heard by the Supreme Court in February 2012 and in May 2012 the Supreme Court decided in British American Tobacco Groups favour, that claims submitted before 8 September 2003 can go back to 1973.
A hearing took place in February 2012 at the ECJ on the questions referred from the Court of Appeal.
The ECJ judgment of 13 November 2012 confirms that the UK treatment of EU dividends was discriminatory and produces the same outcome for third country dividends from 1994 in certain circumstances.
The judgment also confirms that the claim can cover dividends from all indirect as well as direct EU subsidiaries and also ACT paid by a superior holding company.
The case will now revert to the UK High Court to apply the ECJ judgment and the date of the trial is awaited.
No potential receipt has been recognised in the current year or the prior year, in the results of the Group, due to the uncertainty of the amounts and eventual outcome.
c Factors affecting the taxation charge The taxation charge differs from the standard 24% 2011: 26% rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The major causes of this difference are listed below: 2012 2011 m % m % Profit before tax 5,648 4,931 Less: share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 692 670 4,956 4,261 Tax at 24% 2011: 26% on the above 1,189 24.0 1,108 26.0 Factors affecting the tax rate: Tax at standard rates other than UK corporation tax rate 129 2.6 80 1.8 Other national tax charges 76 1.5 67 1.6 Permanent differences 24 0.5 155 3.6 Overseas withholding taxes 172 3.5 143 3.4 Double taxation relief on UK profits 13 0.3 14 0.3 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 18 0.3 21 0.5 Net deferred tax credits at other tax rates 33 0.7 4 0.1 1,526 30.8 1,556 36.5 In 2012, the merger of the Groups Colombian companies led to a 11 million reduction in a deferred tax liability that was set up on the acquisition of Protabaco in 2011.
Following the goodwill impairment in Turkey in 2011 as explained in note 3 g and the uncertainty of future taxable profits, the Group wrote off deferred tax assets of 43 million in 2011.
The above have been treated as adjusting items in the adjusted earnings per share calculation as set out in note 7. d Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income 2012 2011 m m Current tax 2 15 Deferred tax 30 5 Credited to other comprehensive income 28 20 The tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income is disclosed in note 20.
128 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 7 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are based on profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders of 3,841 million 2011: 3,095 million and 1,939 million 2011: 1,970 million ordinary shares of 25p each, being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year excluding shares held as treasury shares.
For the calculation of diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares in issue is increased to 1,949 million 2011: 1,982 million to reflect the potential dilutive effect of employee share schemes.
2012 2011 Weighted Weighted average average number of Earnings number of Earnings Earnings shares per share Earnings shares per share m m pence m m pence Basic earnings per share 3,841 1,939 198.1 3,095 1,970 157.1 Share options 10 1.0 12 0.9 Diluted earnings per share 3,841 1,949 197.1 3,095 1,982 156.2 Earnings have been affected by a number of adjusting items, which are described in notes 3, 5 and 6.
To illustrate the impact of these items, an adjusted earnings per share calculation is shown below.
Adjusted earnings per share calculation Diluted Basic 2012 2011 2012 2011 Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share Notes m pence m pence m pence m pence Unadjusted earnings per share 3,841 197.1 3,095 156.2 3,841 198.1 3,095 157.1 Effect of restructuring and integration costs 3 e 206 10.6 193 9.7 206 10.6 193 9.8 Tax and non-controlling interests on restructuring and integration costs 45 2.3 45 2.3 45 2.3 45 2.3 Effect of goodwill impairment 3 g 273 13.8 273 13.9 Tax on goodwill impairment 10 0.5 10 0.5 Effect of deferred tax liability credit 6 c 11 0.6 11 0.6 Effect of deferred tax asset written off 6 c 43 2.2 43 2.2 Effect of amortisation of trademarks and similar intangibles 3 f 63 3.2 58 2.9 63 3.3 58 2.9 Tax on amortisation of trademarks and similar intangibles 15 0.8 13 0.7 15 0.8 13 0.7 Effect of Fox River 3 h 274 13.8 274 13.9 Effect of associates adjusting items 5 5 0.3 11 0.5 5 0.3 11 0.5 4,044 207.5 3,857 194.6 4,044 208.6 3,857 195.8 Adjusted earnings per share British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 129 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 7 Earnings per share continued Headline earnings per share as required by the JSE Limited The presentation of headline earnings per share, as an alternative measure of earnings per share, is mandated under the JSE Listing Requirements.
It is calculated in accordance with Circular 3 2012 Headline Earnings, as issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Circular 3 2012 superceded Circular 3 2009 for periods ending on or after 31 July 2012 and requires the comparative figures to be restated.
The comparative headline earnings per share for 2011, however, remains unchanged when calculated in accordance with the new Circular.
Headline earnings per share are calculated as shown below: Diluted Basic 2012 2011 2012 2011 Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share m pence m pence m pence m pence Unadjusted earnings per share 3,841 197.1 3,095 156.2 3,841 198.1 3,095 157.1 Effect of impairment of intangibles, and property, plant and equipment 12 0.6 301 15.2 12 0.6 301 15.3 Tax and non-controlling interests on impairment of intangibles, and property, plant and equipment 4 0.2 15 0.8 4 0.2 15 0.8 Effect of gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment and held-for-sale assets 15 0.8 15 0.8 15 0.8 15 0.8 Tax and non-controlling interests on disposal of property, plant and equipment and held-for-sale assets 5 0.3 5 0.3 Effect of gains reclassified from the available-forsale reserve 1 0.1 1 0.1 1 0.1 1 0.1 Share of associates trademark and other asset impairments net of tax 15 0.8 7 0.4 15 0.8 7 0.4 Share of associates gains on disposal of assets held-for-sale net of tax 26 1.3 26 1.3 Issue of shares and change in shareholding in associate 20 1.0 28 1.4 20 1.0 28 1.4 Headline earnings per share 3,828 196.4 3,323 167.7 3,828 197.4 3,323 168.7 An alternative measure of headline earnings per share has been presented below to take account of the effect of Fox River note 3 h : this measure is in addition to that mandated by the JSE Listing Requirements.
Headline earnings per share amended for Fox River 3,828 196.4 3,597 181.5 3,828 197.4 3,597 182.6 8 Dividends and other appropriations 2012 2011 Pence Pence per share m per share m Ordinary shares Interim 2012 paid 26 September 2012 42.2 815 2011 paid 28 September 2011 38.1 738 Final 2011 paid 3 May 2012 88.4 1,723 2010 paid 5 May 2011 81.0 1,620 130.6 2,538 119.1 2,358 The Directors have recommended to shareholders a final dividend of 92.7 pence per share for the year ended 31 December 2012.
If approved, this dividend will be paid to shareholders on 8 May 2013.
This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and therefore, in accordance with IAS 10, it has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The total estimated dividend to be paid is 1,789 million, which takes the total dividends declared in respect of 2012 to 2,604 million 2011: 2,461 million representing 134.9 pence per share 2011: 126.5 pence per share.
130 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 9 Intangible assets Trademarks and Assets in Computer similar the course of Goodwill software intangibles development Total m m m m m 1 January 2012 Cost 11,120 617 883 108 12,728 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 478 258 736 Net book value at 1 January 2012 11,120 139 625 108 11,992 Differences on exchange 325 2 13 2 342 Additions internal development 1 116 117 acquisition of subsidiaries note 26 2 40 38 separately acquired 10 5 5 20 Reallocations 54 54 Amortisation charge 52 63 115 31 December 2012 Cost 10,793 659 904 173 12,529 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 509 310 819 Net book value at 31 December 2012 10,793 150 594 173 11,710 1 January 2011 Cost 11,656 551 802 83 13,092 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 417 217 634 Net book value at 1 January 2011 11,656 134 585 83 12,458 Differences on exchange 397 4 30 3 434 Additions internal development 13 97 110 acquisition of subsidiaries note 26 134 121 255 separately acquired 16 6 22 Reallocations 68 1 69 Amortisation charge 88 58 146 Impairment 273 273 31 December 2011 Cost 11,120 617 883 108 12,728 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 478 258 736 Net book value at 31 December 2011 11,120 139 625 108 11,992 Included in computer software and assets in the course of development are internally developed assets with a carrying value of 296 million 2011: 203 million.
The costs of internally developed assets include capitalised expenses of employees working full time on software development projects, third party consultants, as well as software licence fees from third-party suppliers.
Acquisitions of subsidiaries in 2012 relates to the acquisition of CN Creative Limited and in 2011 relates to the acquisition of Protabaco as explained in note 26.
Included in the net book value of trademarks and similar intangibles are trademarks relating to the acquisition of ST 322 million 2011: 367 million, Tekel 41 million 2011: 45 million, Bentoel 60 million 2011: 80 million and Protabaco 112 million 2011: 119 million and intellectual property of 40 million related to the acquisition of CN Creative Limited in 2012 see note 26 a. British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 131 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 9 Intangible assets continued Impairment testing for intangible assets with indefinite lives including goodwill Goodwill of 10,793 million 2011: 11,120 million is included in intangible assets in the balance sheet of which the following are the significant acquisitions: Rothmans Group 4,796 million 2011: 4,947 million : Imperial Tobacco Canada 2,477 million 2011: 2,533 million : ETI Italy 1,337 million 2011: 1,377 million and ST principally Scandinavia 1,004 million 2011: 1,038 million.
The principal allocations of goodwill in the Rothmans acquisition are to the cash-generating units of Eastern Europe, Western Europe and South Africa, with the remainder mainly relating to operations in the domestic and export markets in the United Kingdom and operations in Asia-Pacific.
In 2012 goodwill was allocated for impairment testing purposes to 14 individual cash-generating units 2011: 15 individual cashgenerating units five in Asia-Pacific, five in the Americas, two in Western Europe and two in EEMEA.
In 2011, the goodwill in respect of Turkey was allocated for impairment testing purposes to a third cash-generating unit in EEMEA but was fully impaired during that year see note 3 g. The carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to the cash-generating units of Canada 2,477 million 2011: 2,533 million, Western Europe includes Rothmans and other acquisitions 3,539 million 2011: 3,646 million, Eastern Europe includes Rothmans and other acquisitions 889 million 2011: 914 million, South Africa 803 million 2011: 883 million, Australia includes Rothmans and other acquisitions 856 million 2011: 884 million, Singapore 538 million 2011: 530 million and Malaysia 474 million 2011: 478 million are considered significant in comparison with the total carrying amount of goodwill.
The recoverable amount of all cash-generating units has been determined on a value-in-use basis.
The key assumptions for the recoverable amount of all units are the long-term growth rate and the discount rate.
The long-term growth rate used is purely for the impairment testing of goodwill under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and does not reflect long-term planning assumptions used by the Group for investment proposals or for any other assessments.
The discount rate is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, taking into account the cost of capital and borrowings, to which specific market-related premium adjustments are made.
These adjustments are derived from external sources and are based on the spread between bonds or credit default swaps, or similar indicators issued by the US or comparable governments and by the local government, adjusted for the Groups own credit market risk.
For ease of use and consistency in application, these results are periodically calibrated into bands based on internationally recognised credit ratings.
These assumptions have been applied to the individual cash flows of each unit as compiled by local management in the different markets.
The valuations use cash flows based on detailed financial budgets prepared by management covering a one-year period, with growth in year 2 of 6%.
Cash flows for the years 3 to 10 are extrapolated from year 2 cash flows at 5% per annum, including 2% inflation, whereafter a total growth rate of 2% per annum including 2% inflation has been assumed.
The extrapolated growth rates are considered conservative given the Groups history of profit and cash growth, its well balanced portfolio of brands and the industry in which it operates.
The long-term real growth does not exceed the expected long-term average growth rate for the combined markets in which the cashgenerating units operate.
In some instances, such as recent acquisitions or start-up ventures, the valuation is expanded to reflect the medium-term plan of management, spanning five years or beyond.
Pre-tax discount rates of between 7.2% and 13.9% 2011: 7.2% to 18.0% were used, based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, together with any premium applicable for economic and political risks.
The pre-tax discount rates used for the cash-generating units which are significant in comparison with the total carrying amount of goodwill are 8.6% for Canada 2011: 8.8%, 9.3% for Western Europe 2011: 8.6%, 8.9% for Eastern Europe 2011: 10.0%, 9.3% for South Africa 2011: 10.8%, 8.6% for Australia 2011: 8.6%, 7.2% for Singapore 2011: 7.2% and 8.7% for Malaysia 2011: 9.3%.
If discounted cash flows for cash-generating units should fall by 10%, or the discount rate was increased at a post-tax rate of 1%, there would be no impairment.
132 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 10 Property, plant and equipment Assets in the Freehold Leasehold Plant and course of property property equipment construction Total m m m m m 1 January 2012 Cost 1,069 256 4,588 380 6,293 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 433 116 2,697 3,246 Net book value at 1 January 2012 636 140 1,891 380 3,047 Differences on exchange 25 64 15 104 Additions separately acquired 201 3 106 361 671 Reallocations 22 5 216 243 Depreciation 25 10 304 339 Impairment 1 12 13 Disposals 3 27 30 Net reclassifications as held-for-sale 29 2 31 31 December 2012 Cost 1,138 261 4,453 483 6,335 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 362 123 2,649 3,134 Net book value at 31 December 2012 776 138 1,804 483 3,201 1 January 2011 Cost 1,144 250 4,820 369 6,583 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 467 109 2,890 3,466 Net book value at 1 January 2011 677 141 1,930 369 3,117 Differences on exchange 35 5 120 23 183 Additions separately acquired 16 6 132 348 502 acquisition of subsidiaries note 26 b 22 32 54 314 Reallocations 16 11 287 Depreciation 26 12 316 354 Impairment 8 19 27 Disposals 8 1 32 41 Net reclassifications as held-for-sale 18 3 21 31 December 2011 Cost 1,069 256 4,588 380 6,293 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 433 116 2,697 3,246 Net book value at 31 December 2011 636 140 1,891 380 3,047 Assets held under finance leases 31 December 2012 Cost 18 18 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 15 15 Net book value at 31 December 2012 3 3 31 December 2011 Cost 35 35 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 28 28 Net book value at 31 December 2011 7 7 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 133 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 10 Property, plant and equipment continued The Groups finance lease arrangements relate principally to the lease of vehicles by the Groups Chilean subsidiary.
Assets held under finance leases are secured under finance lease obligations included in note 21.
2012 2011 m m Cost of freehold land within freehold property on which no depreciation is provided 226 84 Leasehold property comprises net book value of long leasehold 105 106 net book value of short leasehold 33 34 138 140 Contracts placed for future expenditure 38 1 Bank borrowings are secured by property, plant and equipment to the value of nil 2011: 6 million.
11 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2012 2011 m m 1 January 2,613 2,666 Differences on exchange 145 109 Differences on exchange reclassified and reported in share of profit after taxation 4 Share of profit after taxation note 5 692 670 Dividends note 5 487 486 Actuarial losses relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits note 20 55 67 Share buy-backs note 25 262 71 Other equity movements 26 14 31 December 2,330 2,613 Non-current assets 3,815 4,119 Current assets 1,957 1,705 Non-current liabilities 2,090 1,656 Current liabilities 1,352 1,555 2,330 2,613 Reynolds American Inc. Groups share of market value 5,925 million 2011: 6,456 million 1,496 1,831 ITC Ltd. Groups share of market value 7,771 million 2011: 5,886 million 793 735 Other listed associates Groups share of market value 109 million 2011: 65 million 13 12 Unlisted 28 35 2,330 2,613 The Groups share of non-current assets above include 1,437 million 2011: 1,503 million of goodwill and 461 million 2011: 493 million of trademarks arising from the Reynolds American transaction in 2004.
In addition, the non-current assets above include 640 million 2011: 669 million of goodwill and 296 million 2011: 310 million of trademarks arising from the acquisition of Conwood by Reynolds American in 2006.
In 2011, as a result of the disposal of the Lane business, 17 million of goodwill arising from the Reynolds transaction in 2004 was accounted for as part of the gain on disposal reported in the income statement.
Details of the Groups contingent liabilities are set out in note 30.
In addition to US litigation involving Group companies, which is covered by the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company RJRT indemnity referred to in note 30, Reynolds American Inc. RAI group companies are named in litigation which does not involve Group companies.
While it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular case or of the amount of any possible adverse verdict, it is not impossible that the results of operations or cash flows of RAI, in particular quarterly or annual periods, could be materially affected by this and by the final outcome of any particular litigation.
However, having regard to the contingent liability disclosures on litigation made by RAI in its public financial reports, the Directors are satisfied with the carrying value included above for RAI.
134 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 11 Investments in associates and joint ventures continued The Groups share of the RAI results for the year to 31 December 2012 includes 41 million 2011: 42 million in respect of external legal fees and other external product liability defence costs.
Additional information on associates is provided in the principal associate undertaking sections to the Annual Report.
12 Retirement benefit schemes The Groups subsidiary undertakings operate around 180 retirement benefit arrangements worldwide.
These arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned.
The majority of scheme members belong to defined benefit schemes, most of which are funded externally and many of which are closed to new entrants.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution schemes.
The liabilities arising in the defined benefit schemes are determined in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualified actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
All schemes are formally valued at least every three years.
The principal pension schemes are in the UK, Germany, Canada, the Netherlands and Switzerland.
Together these schemes account for over 85% of the total obligations of the Groups defined benefit schemes.
In addition, the Group operates significant schemes in Canada which provide employees with certain other retirement benefits, such as healthcare.
The liabilities in respect of these benefits are also assessed by qualified independent actuaries, applying the projected unit credit method.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m m m Present value of funded scheme liabilities 6,196 5,652 21 23 6,217 5,675 Fair value of funded scheme assets 5,547 5,184 16 16 5,563 5,200 649 468 5 7 654 475 Minimum funding obligations 2 2 Unrecognised funded scheme surpluses 15 75 15 75 664 545 5 7 669 552 Present value of unfunded scheme liabilities 224 197 154 149 378 346 888 742 159 156 1,047 898 The above net liability is recognised in the balance sheet as follows: retirement benefit scheme liabilities 993 847 159 156 1,152 1,003 retirement benefit scheme assets 105 105 105 105 888 742 159 156 1,047 898 The total accumulated net actuarial losses taken through other comprehensive income at 31 December 2012 were 1,570 million 2011: 1,155 million for subsidiaries, and 472 million 2011: 417 million net of tax for associates and joint ventures.
In Jamaica, the pension schemes hold shares in Carreras Group Ltd a Group subsidiary with a fair value of 3 million 2011: 6 million.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 135 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m m m Defined benefit schemes current service cost 80 71 2 1 82 72 interest cost 271 285 8 11 279 296 expected return on scheme assets 283 316 1 2 284 318 past service cost 13 9 13 9 settlements and curtailments 2 3 2 3 83 46 9 10 92 56 Defined contribution schemes 39 42 39 42 Total amount recognised in the income statement note 3 a 122 88 9 10 131 98 The above charges are recognised within employee benefit costs in 2012 and 2011 in note 3 a and include a charge of 14 million in 2012 2011: 7 million charge in respect of pension costs reported as part of the restructuring costs charged in arriving at profit from operations see note 3 e. The movements in scheme liabilities are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m m m Present value at 1 January 5,849 5,512 172 190 6,021 5,702 Differences on exchange 120 89 5 7 125 96 Current service cost 81 72 1 1 82 73 Interest cost 268 281 8 10 276 291 Past service costs vested 13 8 13 8 Contributions by scheme members 3 3 3 3 Benefits paid 339 336 8 9 347 345 Settlements and curtailments 3 5 3 5 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 Actuarial losses gains 668 402 7 13 675 389 Present value at 31 December 6,420 5,849 175 172 6,595 6,021 Funded schemes 6,196 5,652 21 23 6,217 5,675 Unfunded schemes 224 197 154 149 378 346 6,420 5,849 175 172 6,595 6,021 The actuarial losses and gains in 2012 principally relate to changes in assumptions regarding discount rates.
The actuarial losses and gains in 2011 principally relate to changes in assumptions regarding discount rates and mortality.
136 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The movements in funded scheme assets are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 5,184 5,114 16 20 5,200 5,134 Differences on exchange 121 90 5 121 95 Expected return on scheme assets 279 311 1 2 280 313 Company contributions net of reimbursements 270 242 6 7 276 249 Contributions by scheme members 5 5 5 5 Benefits paid 326 323 7 8 333 331 Settlements 4 2 4 2 Actuarial gains losses 260 73 260 73 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 5,547 5,184 16 16 5,563 5,200 The actuarial gains and losses in both years principally relate to movements in the market value of scheme assets.
Contributions to defined benefit schemes are determined after consultation with the respective trustees and actuaries of the individual externally funded schemes and taking into account regulatory requirements.
Contributions in 2013 are expected to be 318 million for pension schemes and 8 million for healthcare schemes, compared to 296 million and 6 million, respectively, in 2012.
Company contributions for 2012 in the table above are shown net of a reimbursement of 26 million from a Jamaican pension scheme in the course of being wound up.
Company contributions to pension schemes include 190 million 2011: 140 million over and above normal contributions in respect of a funding shortfall relating to the main UK pension scheme.
Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m m m Actual return on scheme assets 539 238 1 2 540 240 The movements in the unrecognised funded scheme surpluses are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m m m Unrecognised funded scheme surpluses at 1 January 75 51 75 51 Differences on exchange 8 1 8 1 Movement in year 52 25 52 25 Unrecognised funded scheme surpluses at 31 December 15 75 15 75 The movement in minimum funding obligations are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m m m Minimum funding obligations at 1 January 2 29 2 29 Movement in year 2 27 2 27 Minimum funding obligations at 31 December 2 2 Movements in unrecognised scheme surpluses and minimum funding obligations are recognised in other comprehensive income.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 137 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The principal actuarial assumptions weighted to reflect individual scheme differences used in the following principal countries are as follows: UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland % % % % % 31 December 2012 Rate of increase in salaries 4.4 2.5 3.3 2.7 1.5 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.9 2.0 Nil 1.5 Nil Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.4 Nil Nil 1.5 Discount rate 4.1 3.2 3.5 4.1 2.0 General inflation 2.9 2.0 2.3 1.5 Nil For healthcare inflation in Canada, the assumption is 8.0% reducing to 5.0% by 2018.
For the remaining pension schemes, typical assumptions are that real salary increases will be from 0.5% to 3.6% per annum and discount rates will be from 0% to 4.1% above inflation.
Pension increases, where allowed for, are generally assumed to be in line with inflation.
UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland % % % % % 31 December 2011 Rate of increase in salaries 4.5 2.5 3.5 3.1 1.5 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.0 1.7 Nil 1.5 Nil Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.5 Nil Nil 1.5 Discount rate 4.7 5.0 4.0 4.7 3.0 General inflation 3.0 1.7 2.5 1.5 Nil For healthcare inflation in Canada, the assumption is 8.5% reducing to 5.0% by 2018.
For the remaining pension schemes, typical assumptions were that real salary increases would be from 0% to 4.5% per annum and discount rates would be from 0% to 5.25% above inflation.
Pension increases, where allowed for, were generally assumed to be in line with inflation.
Discount rates in both years are determined by reference to normal yields on high quality corporate bonds at the balance sheet date.
For countries where there is not a deep market in such corporate bonds, the yield on government bonds is used.
Mortality assumptions are subject to regular review.
In Canada, Germany and the UK the same tables were used for both years.
In Canada UP94 tables, in Germany Heubeck tables 2005G and in the UK the S1NA year of birth table with the Continuous Mortality Investigation 2009 model with a 1.5% long-term improvement rate, have been used.
In Switzerland LPP 2010 tables 2011: EVK 2000 and in the Netherlands AG Prognosetafel 2012-2062 tables 2011: AG Prognosetafel 2010-2060 have been used.
Based on the above, the weighted average life expectancy, in years, for mortality tables used to determine benefit obligations is as follows: UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female 31 December 2012 Member age 65 current life expectancy 22.7 24.9 18.6 22.7 19.7 22.1 20.3 24.8 19.7 22.0 Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 24.9 27.3 21.3 25.3 21.2 22.9 22.2 25.0 22.2 24.5 31 December 2011 Member age 65 current life expectancy 22.5 24.7 18.5 22.6 19.7 22.1 19.9 24.6 18.9 21.4 Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 24.7 27.1 21.2 25.1 21.2 22.9 21.3 24.8 21.7 23.9 138 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The expected rates of return on scheme assets in the following principal countries are as follows: UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland % % % % % 31 December 2012 Equities 6.0 8.0 8.5 7.0 5.1 Bonds 3.6 5.0 3.8 3.1 1.5 Property 5.5 5.7 4.4 Other assets 6.0 Nil 4.0 4.7 For the remaining pension schemes, expected long-term real rates of return range from 0% to 9%.
UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland % % % % % 31 December 2011 Equities 6.0 8.0 9.0 7.2 6.5 Bonds 3.8 5.0 4.0 3.7 2.4 Property 5.5 5.6 5.4 Other assets 6.0 Nil 4.0 5.2 For the remaining pension schemes, expected long-term real rates of return ranged from 0% to 11%.
Expected rates of return are determined taking into account the current level of expected returns on risk-free investments, the historical level of risk premium associated with other invested assets, and the expectations for future returns on such assets.
Property assets include investment properties, direct investments in property investment companies and real estate trusts, as well as indirect investments in real estate funds, with the majority of these investments by value quoted in an active market.
Other assets include cash and other deposits, recoverable taxes, reinsurance contracts and hedge funds.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 139 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued Valuation of post-retirement schemes involves judgments about uncertain future events.
Sensitivities in respect of the key assumptions used to measure the principal pension schemes as at 31 December 2012 are set out below.
These sensitivities show the hypothetical impact of a change in each of the listed assumptions in isolation, with the exception of the sensitivity to inflation which incorporates the impact of certain correlating assumptions such as salary increases.
While each of these sensitivities holds all other assumptions constant, in practice such assumptions rarely change in isolation, while asset values also change, and the impacts may offset to some extent.
0.25 0.25 1 year 1 year percentage percentage increase decrease point increase point decrease m m m m Average life expectancy increase decrease of scheme liabilities 158 158 Rate of inflation increase decrease of scheme liabilities 159 149 Discount rate decrease increase of scheme liabilities 182 193 A one percentage point increase in healthcare inflation would increase healthcare scheme liabilities by 24 million, and a one percentage point decrease would decrease liabilities by 19 million.
The income statement effect of this change in assumption is not material.
The history of the present value of the scheme liabilities, fair value of the scheme assets, the scheme net deficits and experience gains and losses are as follows: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m Historical information Scheme liabilities 6,595 6,021 5,702 5,532 4,895 Scheme assets 5,563 5,200 5,134 4,634 4,182 Scheme net deficits 1,032 821 568 898 713 Experience losses gains on scheme liabilities 23 6 191 75 156 Experience gains losses on scheme assets 260 73 194 358 857 Experience losses and gains on scheme liabilities are presented as part of actuarial gains and losses.
140 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 13 Deferred tax Deferred tax assets comprise: Excess of Other depreciation temporary Stock over capital Tax Retirement Fair value relief allowances losses benefits losses gains differences Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2012 32 27 16 128 5 259 467 Differences on exchange 2 2 4 18 26 Credited charged to the income statement 33 12 22 20 9 45 11 Credited charged to other comprehensive income 66 10 5 51 At 31 December 2012 65 37 36 170 4 191 503 At 1 January 2011 31 70 42 117 4 313 577 Differences on exchange 1 7 5 3 1 9 26 Charged credited to the income statement 1 36 20 7 9 49 102 Credited charged to other comprehensive income 1 19 7 3 14 Subsidiaries acquired note 26 b 1 2 3 Other 1 1 At 31 December 2011 32 27 16 128 5 259 467 Deferred tax liabilities comprise: Excess of Undistributed capital earnings of allowances associates Other Stock over and Retirement Fair value temporary relief depreciation subsidiaries benefits losses gains differences Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2012 21 193 158 117 2 189 680 Differences on exchange 1 8 8 3 4 24 Credited charged to the income statement 4 3 18 3 3 18 1 Charged to other comprehensive income 2 19 21 At 31 December 2012 16 182 168 119 24 167 676 At 1 January 2011 12 195 166 117 2 183 675 Differences on exchange 13 16 4 1 32 Credited charged to the income statement 10 6 8 3 37 16 Charged to other comprehensive income 7 2 9 Subsidiaries acquired note 26 b 5 40 45 Other 1 1 At 31 December 2011 21 193 158 117 2 189 680 2012 2011 m m Net deferred tax liabilities 173 213 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 141 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 13 Deferred tax continued The net deferred tax liabilities are reflected in the Group balance sheet as follows, after offsetting assets and liabilities where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and where the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
2012 2011 m m Deferred tax assets 327 343 Deferred tax liabilities 500 556 173 213 Deferred tax expected to be recovered within 12 months: 2012 2011 m m Deferred tax assets 117 136 Deferred tax liabilities 169 136 52 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of 289 million 2011: 360 million which have no expiry date and unused tax losses of 632 million 2011: 561 million which will expire within the next 10 years.
No amount of deferred tax has been recognised in respect of these unused losses.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has not recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of deductible temporary differences of 1,221 million 2011: 1,184 million, which have no expiry date and 177 million 2011: 128 million, which will expire within the next 10 years.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax credits of 80 million 2011: 80 million which have no expiry date.
No amount of deferred tax has been recognised in respect of these unused tax credits.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of undistributed earnings of subsidiaries which would be subject to dividend withholding tax was 2 billion 2011: 2 billion.
No liability has been recognised in respect of this withholding tax because the Group is in a position to control the timing of these distributions and it is probable that these distributions will not be made in the foreseeable future.
14 Trade and other receivables 2012 2011 m m Trade receivables 2,088 1,857 Loans and other receivables 712 690 Prepayments and accrued income 165 181 2,965 2,728 Current 2,741 2,423 Non-current 224 305 2,965 2,728 Amounts receivable from related parties including associated undertakings are shown in note 29.
Trade and other receivables have been reported in the balance sheet net of allowances as follows: 2012 2011 m m Gross trade and other receivables 3,017 2,777 Allowance account 52 49 Net trade and other receivables per balance sheet 2,965 2,728 142 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 14 Trade and other receivables continued The movements in the allowance account are as follows: 2012 2011 m m 1 January 49 60 Differences on exchange 3 5 Provided in the year 14 11 Amounts reversed during the year 8 3 Amounts in respect of receivables written-off 14 31 December 52 49 Impairment of trade receivables, including write-offs and allowances, charged during the year is included as part of other operating expenses.
For 2012, the net impairment charged was 9 million 2011: 11 million of which 6 million 2011: 8 million, is reflected in the above table.
As at 31 December 2012, trade and other receivables of 41 million 2011: 42 million were past their contractual payment date but not impaired.
These relate to a number of external parties where there is no expectation of default.
The aged analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Less than three months 36 34 Between three and six months 2 3 Between six months and one year 1 3 Greater than one year 2 2 The Group holds bank guarantees, other guarantees and credit insurance in respect of some of the past due debtor balances.
Trade and other receivables are predominantly denominated in the functional currencies of subsidiary undertakings apart from the following: 2012 2011 m m US dollar 76 127 UK sterling 136 112 Euro 33 32 Other currencies 62 36 Trade and other receivables also include certain interest bearing amounts and their effective interest rates are as follows: 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m % % Euro 5 3 4.0 4.0 Other currencies 12 11 5.9 5.7 There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other receivables and their fair value due to the short-term duration of the majority of trade and other receivables.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number of internationally dispersed customers.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 143 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 15 Available-for-sale investments 2012 2011 m m 1 January 97 87 Differences on exchange 4 1 Additions and advances 1 55 Revaluations 13 Disposals and repayments 31 57 31 December 63 97 Current 26 57 Non-current 37 40 63 97 The classification of these investments under the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy is given in note 24.
Investments have the following maturities: As per balance sheet 2012 2011 m m Equity investments 37 40 Non-equity investments within one year 24 46 beyond one year and within two years 10 beyond four years and within five years 2 beyond five years 1 63 97 There is no material difference between the maturity profile of investments in the table above and the maturity profile on a gross contractual basis where the values in each year include the investments maturing in that year together with forecast interest receipts on all investments which are due for all or part of that year.
Investments are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking or other currencies as shown below: 2012 2011 m m Functional currencies 62 82 US dollar 1 1 Other currencies 14 63 97 Non-equity investments of 26 million 2011: 57 million are principally denominated in UK sterling and have an effective interest rate of 1.1% 2011: 5.1%.
144 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 16 Derivative financial instruments The fair values of derivatives are determined based on market data primarily yield curves, implied volatilities and exchange rates to calculate the present value of all estimated flows associated with each derivative at the balance sheet date.
In the absence of sufficient market data, fair values would be based on the quoted market price of similar derivatives.
The classification of these derivative assets and liabilities under the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy is given in note 24.
2012 2011 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Fair value hedges interest rate swaps 209 55 186 22 cross-currency swaps 10 12 6 42 Cash flow hedges cross-currency swaps 18 4 forward foreign currency contracts 70 31 44 85 Net investment hedges forward foreign currency contracts 59 12 59 34 Held-for-trading forward foreign currency contracts 25 22 34 63 others 1 9 14 Total 373 151 338 264 Current 166 65 159 177 Non-current 207 86 179 87 373 151 338 264 Derivatives in respect of net debt 234 95 223 126 other 139 56 115 138 373 151 338 264 As explained in note 4, some derivative financial instruments are not designated as hedges and so are required to be classified as held-for-trading.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 145 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 16 Derivative financial instruments continued For cash flow hedges, including bifurcated derivatives, the timing of expected cash flows is as follows: 2012 2011 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Within one year 49 31 41 82 Between one and two years 21 18 3 11 Between two and three years 4 70 49 44 97 Less: bifurcated derivatives designated as net investment hedges 8 70 49 44 89 The Groups cash flow hedges are principally in respect of sales or purchases of inventory and certain debt instruments.
The timing of expected cash flows in respect of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is broadly expected to be comparable to the time periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
In 2011, the Group had a receive 467 million, pay DKK 3,470 million foreign exchange forward contract which was bifurcated into a receive 467 million, pay 398 million foreign exchange forward contract designated as a cash flow hedge and a receive 398 million, pay DKK 3,470 million foreign exchange forward contract designated as a net investment hedge.
This structure was collapsed during 2012.
The above table includes the timing of expected cash flows on the bifurcated foreign exchange forward contract designated as a cash flow hedge for 2011.
146 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 16 Derivative financial instruments continued The tables below set out the maturities of the Groups derivative financial instruments on an undiscounted contractual basis, based on spot rates.
The maturity dates of all gross-settled derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2012 2011 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow m m m m m m m m Within one year forward foreign currency contracts 5,997 5,873 2,881 2,956 4,297 4,177 6,626 6,788 cross-currency swaps 18 11 47 43 1 39 26 other 1,188 1,175 1,174 1,189 Between one and two years forward foreign currency contracts 503 479 115 116 293 277 348 358 cross-currency swaps 18 11 158 163 1 68 56 Between two and three years forward foreign currency contracts 6 6 55 54 cross-currency swaps 18 13 18 6 1 183 177 Between three and four years cross-currency swaps 18 14 343 389 1 36 27 Between four and five years cross-currency swaps 18 16 1 361 422 Beyond five years cross-currency swaps 575 616 19 15 592 634 7,165 7,033 3,562 3,673 5,808 5,650 9,482 9,731 The maturity dates of net-settled derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2012 2011 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Inflow Inflow Inflow Inflow Outflow Outflow Outflow Outflow m m m m Within one year 64 12 59 15 Between one and two years 63 11 58 10 Between two and three years 31 6 35 6 Between three and four years 24 15 14 3 Between four and five years 20 12 12 1 Beyond five years 14 18 1 216 56 196 34 The above analysis of derivatives settled on a net basis primarily relates to the Groups interest rate swaps.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is summarised as follows: 2012 2011 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swaps 209 55 186 22 Cross-currency swaps 10 30 6 46 Forward foreign currency contracts 154 65 137 182 Others 1 9 14 373 151 338 264 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 147 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 16 Derivative financial instruments continued a Interest rate swaps 2012 Interest rate % Maturity Principal Assets Liabilities date currency m m Original Swapped m m Fixed to floating 2013 EUR 400 324 5.1 note a 14 2013 GBP 150 150 5.8 note a 6 2014 GBP 500 500 6.0 note a 26 2014 GBP 250 250 6.0 note a 18 2017 USD 600 369 2.1 note a 4 2019 GBP 250 250 6.4 note a 68 2020 EUR 600 487 4.0 note a 65 2023 EUR 750 608 2.4 note a 8 Floating to fixed 2017 EUR 600 487 note a 3.7 45 2023 EUR 750 608 note a 2.8 10 209 55 The 750 million interest rate swap maturing in 2023 has a start date of 2015.
2011 Interest rate % Maturity Principal Assets Liabilities date currency m m Original Swapped m m Fixed to floating 2012 EUR 337 281 3.6 note a 7 2013 EUR 400 334 5.1 note a 24 2013 GBP 150 150 5.8 note a 10 2014 GBP 500 500 6.0 note a 29 2014 GBP 250 250 6.0 note a 22 2019 GBP 250 250 6.4 note a 64 2020 EUR 600 501 4.0 note a 30 Floating to fixed 2017 EUR 600 501 note a 3.7 22 186 22 Note a : The floating rate interest rates are based on LIBOR or local equivalent plus a margin ranging between 67 and 268 basis points 2011: between 35 and 268 basis points.
These swaps have been used to manage the interest rate profile of external borrowings and are reflected in the repricing table in note 21.
148 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 16 Derivative financial instruments continued b Cross-currency swaps 2012 Principal Principal Interest original Interest swapped Maturity Original rate currency Swapped rate currency Assets Liabilities date currency % m m currency % m m m m Fixed to floating 2016 GBP 5.5 325 325 EUR note b 473 384 12 2019 EUR 4.6 20 16 USD note b 22 13 7 2021 EUR 3.6 600 487 GBP note b 518 518 3 Floating to fixed 2014 USD note b 261 161 COP 7.2 504,158 176 18 10 30 2011 Principal Principal Interest original Interest swapped Maturity Original rate currency Swapped rate currency Assets Liabilities date currency % m m currency % m m m m Fixed to floating 2016 GBP 5.5 325 325 EUR note b 473 395 30 2019 EUR 4.6 20 17 USD note b 22 14 6 2021 EUR 3.6 600 501 GBP note b 518 518 12 Floating to fixed 2014 USD note b 261 168 COP 7.2 504,158 167 4 6 46 Note b : The floating rate interest rates are based on LIBOR or local equivalent plus a margin ranging between 82 and 250 basis points 2011: between 82 and 250 basis points.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 149 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 16 Derivative financial instruments continued c Forward foreign currency contracts Forward foreign currency contracts have been used to hedge both internal and external forecast transactions as well as the hedging of internal and external assets and liabilities.
2012 2011 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Purchase Sell GBP EUR 12 5 38 2 GBP AUD 9 2 28 GBP ZAR 2 19 3 GBP CHF 10 12 2 GBP USD 28 2 41 EUR USD 7 7 USD EUR 2 16 21 USD GBP 4 9 1 USD JPY 56 41 BRL USD 1 11 Other 27 38 36 46 154 65 137 182 Certain of these contracts were used to manage the currency profile of external borrowings and are reflected in the currency table in note 21.
The nominal values of these contracts are as follows: 2012 2011 Purchase Sell Purchase Sell m m m m Purchase Sell GBP CHF 221 221 89 86 GBP CAD 292 287 290 294 GBP AUD 1,092 1,121 GBP USD 268 272 GBP EUR 362 362 EUR DKK 344 344 390 390 EUR SEK 131 131 126 130 EUR NOK 166 166 160 162 EUR GBP 75 77 d Others 2012 2011 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Others: Bund forwards see note i 9 11 Interest derivative see note ii 1 3 1 9 14 Notes: i Forward contracts to purchase and sell German government securities with a nominal value of nil 2011: 1.4 billion taken out to manage internal financing arrangements.
ii Remaining impact of an interest derivative with a nominal value of 1 billion maturing in 2013.
150 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 17 Inventories 2012 2011 m m Raw materials and consumables 1,725 1,797 Finished goods and work in progress 2,079 1,477 Goods purchased for resale 222 224 4,026 3,498 Inventories pledged as security for liabilities amount to 8 million 2011: 13 million.
Write-offs taken to other operating expenses in the Group income statement comprise 57 million 2011: 38 million, including amounts relating to restructuring costs.
18 Income tax receivable and payable Income tax balances shown on the Group balance sheet as current assets and current liabilities, while subject to some uncertainty as to the extent and timing of cash flows, are largely expected to be received or paid within 12 months at the balance sheet date for both 2012 and 2011.
19 Cash and cash equivalents 2012 2011 m m Cash and bank balances 977 970 Cash equivalents 1,104 1,224 2,081 2,194 Cash equivalents mainly comprise short-term deposits and investments in money market funds with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking or other currencies as shown below: 2012 2011 m m Functional currency 1,383 1,404 US dollar 532 678 UK sterling 5 14 Euro 63 30 Other currencies 98 68 2,081 2,194 At 31 December 2012, cash and cash equivalents of 1 million 2011: 1 million were pledged as collateral.
In the Group cash flow statement, net cash and cash equivalents are shown after deducting bank overdrafts and accrued interest where applicable, as follows: 2011 2012 m m Cash and cash equivalents as above 2,081 2,194 Less overdrafts 242 252 Net cash and cash equivalents 1,839 1,942 Cash and cash equivalents include restricted amounts of 151 million 2011: 146 million, principally due to exchange control regulations in certain countries.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 151 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity Attributable to owners of the parent Share premium, capital Total redemption attributable NonShare and merger Other Retained to owners of controlling Total capital reserves reserves earnings the parent interests equity m m m m m m m 1 January 2012 506 3,913 1,112 2,636 8,167 307 8,474 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 3,841 3,841 281 4,122 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 355 355 24 379 associates 145 145 145 Cash flow hedges net fair value losses gains 14 14 3 11 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 71 71 71 reclassified and reported in net assets 12 12 12 Available-for-sale investments net fair value losses 3 3 3 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 1 1 1 Net investment hedges net fair value gains 106 106 106 differences on exchange on borrowings 49 49 49 Retirement benefit schemes actuarial losses in respect of subsidiaries note 12 410 410 5 415 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries note 12 35 35 19 54 actuarial losses in respect of associates net of tax note 11 55 55 55 Tax on other items recognised directly in other comprehensive income note 6 d 36 68 32 4 28 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 73 73 73 proceeds from shares issued 1 3 1 5 5 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 2,538 2,538 2,538 to non-controlling interests 267 267 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 121 121 121 share buy-back programme 1,258 1,258 1,258 Non-controlling interests acquisitions note 29 21 21 3 24 Other movements 2 2 2 31 December 2012 507 3,916 796 2,253 7,472 307 7,779 152 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Attributable to owners of the parent Share premium, capital Total redemption attributable to NonShare and merger Other Retained owners of the controlling Total capital reserves reserves earnings parent interests equity m m m m m m m 1 January 2011 506 3,910 1,600 3,190 9,206 342 9,548 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 3,095 3,095 280 3,375 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 377 377 34 411 associates 109 109 109 Differences on exchange reclassified and reported in profit for the year 4 4 4 Cash flow hedges net fair value losses 19 19 2 21 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 38 38 38 reclassified and reported in net assets 5 5 5 Available-for-sale investments net fair value gains 26 26 26 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 1 1 1 Net investment hedges net fair value gains 62 62 62 differences on exchange on borrowings 104 104 104 Retirement benefit schemes actuarial losses in respect of subsidiaries note 12 461 461 1 462 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries note 12 3 3 1 2 actuarial losses in respect of associates net of tax note 11 67 67 67 Tax on other items recognised directly in other comprehensive income note 6 d 5 12 17 3 20 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 76 76 76 proceeds from shares issued 3 2 5 5 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 2,358 2,358 2,358 to non-controlling interests 279 279 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 123 123 123 share buy-back programme 755 755 755 Non-controlling interests acquisitions note 29 10 10 10 Other movements 32 32 1 31 31 December 2011 506 3,913 1,112 2,636 8,167 307 8,474 Details relating to the allotted share capital, and movements therein, are included in note 4 of the Parent Company Financial Statements.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 153 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Share premium account, capital redemption reserves and merger reserves comprise: Share Capital premium redemption Merger account reserves reserves Total m m m m 1 January 2011 61 101 3,748 3,910 31 December 2011 64 101 3,748 3,913 31 December 2012 67 101 3,748 3,916 The share premium account includes the difference between the value of shares issued and their nominal value.
The increase of 3 million 2011: 3 million relates solely to ordinary shares issued under the Companys share option schemes.
These schemes are described in the remuneration report.
On the purchase of own shares as part of the share buy-back programme for shares which are cancelled, a transfer is made from retained earnings to the capital redemption reserve equivalent to the nominal value of shares purchased.
Purchased shares which are not cancelled are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
Total equity attributable to owners of the parent is stated after deducting the cost of treasury shares which include 2,536 million 2011: 1,278 million for shares repurchased and not cancelled and 288 million 2011: 261million in respect of the cost of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts.
During 2012, 39 million shares were bought back at a cost of 1,250 million 2011: 28 million shares at a cost of 750 million excluding transaction costs of 8 million 2011: 5 million.
In 1999, shares were issued for the acquisition of the Rothmans International B. V. Group, and the difference between the fair value of shares issued and their nominal value was credited to merger reserves.
154 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Movements in other reserves and retained earnings which is after deducting treasury shares shown above comprise: Retained earnings AvailableTotal Translation Hedging for-sale Revaluation other Treasury reserve reserve reserve reserve Other reserves shares Other m m m m m m m m 1 January 2012 349 29 40 179 573 1,112 1,539 4,175 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 3,841 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 355 355 associates 145 145 Cash flow hedges net fair value losses 14 14 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 71 71 reclassified and reported in net assets 12 12 Available-for-sale investments net fair value losses 3 3 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 1 1 Net investment hedges net fair value gains 106 106 differences on exchange on borrowings 49 49 Retirement benefit schemes actuarial losses in respect of subsidiaries note 12 410 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries note 12 35 actuarial losses in respect of associates net of tax note 11 55 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income note 6 d 7 29 36 68 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 73 proceeds from shares issued 1 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 2,538 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 121 share buy-back programme 1,258 Non-controlling interests acquisitions note 29 21 Other movements 93 91 31 December 2012 3 11 36 179 573 796 2,824 5,077 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 155 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Retained earnings AvailableTotal Translation Hedging for-sale Revaluation other Treasury reserve reserve reserve reserve Other reserves shares Other m m m m m m m m 1 January 2011 868 35 15 179 573 1,600 750 3,940 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 3,095 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 377 377 associates 109 109 Differences on exchange reclassified and reported in profit for the year 4 4 Cash flow hedges net fair value losses 19 19 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 38 38 reclassified and reported in net assets 5 5 Available-for-sale investments net fair value gains 26 26 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 1 1 Net investment hedges net fair value gains 62 62 differences on exchange on borrowings 104 104 Retirement benefit schemes actuarial losses in respect of subsidiaries note 12 461 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries note 12 3 actuarial losses in respect of associates net of tax note 11 67 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income note 6 d 13 8 5 12 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 76 proceeds from shares issued 2 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 2,358 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 123 share buy-back programme 755 Non-controlling interests acquisitions note 29 10 Other movements 87 55 31 December 2011 349 29 40 179 573 1,112 1,539 4,175 The translation reserve is as explained in the accounting policy on foreign currencies in note 1.
The hedging reserve and the available-for-sale reserve are as explained in the accounting policy on financial instruments in note 1.
The revaluation reserve relates to the acquisition of the cigarette and snus business of ST in 2008.
Of the amounts released from the hedging reserve during the year, losses of 5 million 2011: 5 million and losses of 26 million 2011: 26 million were reported within revenue and raw materials and consumables respectively, together with a loss of 5 million 2011: 2 million gain reported in other operating expenses and a loss of 35 million 2011: 9 million reported within net finance costs.
156 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Other reserves comprise: a 483 million which arose in 1998 from merger accounting in a Scheme of Arrangement and Reconstruction whereby British American Tobacco p. l. c. acquired the entire share capital of B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. and the share capital of that companys principal financial services subsidiaries was distributed, so effectively demerging them: and b In the Rothmans transaction, convertible redeemable preference shares were issued as part of the consideration.
The discount on these shares was amortised by crediting other reserves and charging retained earnings.
The 90 million balance in other reserves comprises the accumulated balance in respect of the preference shares converted during 2004.
The tax attributable to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Translation reserve Differences on exchange 2 7 Net investment hedges difference on exchange on borrowings 5 6 7 13 Hedging reserve Cash flow hedges net fair value gains losses 17 8 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 12 16 29 8 Retained earnings actuarial gains in respect of subsidiaries 76 13 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries 8 1 68 12 Owners of the parent 32 17 Non-controlling interests 4 3 Total tax recognised in other comprehensive income for the period note 6 d 28 20 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 157 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 21 Borrowings 2012 2011 Currency Maturity dates Interest rates m m Eurobonds Euro 2012 to 2023 2.4% to 5.9% 5,208 4,985 UK sterling 2013 to 2040 5.5% to 7.3% 2,670 2,675 Bonds issued pursuant to Rule 144A and RegS under the US Securities Act as amended US dollar 2013 to 2022 1.4% to 9.5% 1,840 643 Other notes Malaysian ringgit 2012 to 2014 4.1% to 4.5% 51 134 Indonesian rupiah 2012 10.5% 96 Other currencies 25 26 Syndicated bank loans US dollar 2012 floating rate 444 Euro 2013 floating rate 374 Commercial paper 85 Bank loans 543 497 Other loans 135 57 Finance leases 5 8 Overdrafts 242 252 10,719 10,276 The floating interest rates referred to in the table above are based on EURIBOR or USD LIBOR plus a margin ranging between 28 and 105 basis points 2011: 28 and 105 basis points.
Included within borrowings are 3,731 million 2011: 3,066 million of borrowings subject to fair value hedges where their amortised cost has been increased by 220 million 2011: 189 million in the table above.
The fair value of borrowings is estimated to be 12,041 million 2011: 11,263 million and has been determined using quoted market prices or discounted cash flow analysis.
2012 2011 m m Amounts secured on Group assets 13 27 In both years amounts secured on Group assets include finance leases of 5 million 2011: 8 million and amounts secured on certain inventory of the Group see note 17.
In 2011 certain borrowings were also secured on property of the Group see note 10.
Borrowings are repayable as follows: Per balance sheet Contractual gross maturities 2011 2011 2012 2012 m m m m Within one year 1,636 1,766 1,783 1,922 Between one and two years 666 1,228 1,099 1,602 Between two and three years 1,319 665 1,730 1,086 Between three and four years 369 1,042 672 1,417 Between four and five years 1,508 454 1,862 767 Beyond five years 5,221 5,121 6,874 6,978 10,719 10,276 14,020 13,772 The contractual gross maturities in each year include the borrowings maturing in that year together with forecast interest payments on all borrowings which are outstanding for all or part of that year.
158 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 21 Borrowings continued Borrowings are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking or other currencies as shown below: Functional US UK Canadian Australian Other currency dollar sterling Euro dollar dollar currencies Total m m m m m m m m 31 December 2012 Total borrowings 5,710 1,962 329 2,688 30 10,719 Effect of derivative financial instruments cross-currency swaps 1,078 148 325 503 102 forward foreign currency contracts 875 279 287 862 5 5,913 1,814 4 1,906 287 892 10,816 31 December 2011 Total borrowings 5,213 1,264 329 3,431 1 38 10,276 Effect of derivative financial instruments cross-currency swaps 1,080 154 325 518 83 forward foreign currency contracts 1,662 272 751 294 1,121 768 42 4,631 1,382 4 2,162 295 1,121 806 10,401 Details of the derivative financial instruments included in these tables are given in note 16.
The exposure to interest rate changes when borrowings are repriced is as follows: Within Between Between Between Between Beyond 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m 31 December 2012 Total borrowings 1,667 665 1,318 368 1,508 5,193 10,719 Effect of derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 1,977 750 608 118 737 cross-currency swaps 781 149 325 503 102 4,425 64 710 43 1,626 3,953 10,821 31 December 2011 Total borrowings 2,373 848 598 1,042 324 5,091 10,276 Effect of derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 1,484 484 750 250 cross-currency swaps 759 167 325 518 83 4,616 364 15 1,042 1 4,323 10,359 Details of the derivative financial instruments included in these tables are given in note 16.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 159 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 21 Borrowings continued Finance lease liabilities per the balance sheet and on a contractual gross maturity basis are payable as follows: 2012 2011 Total Total m m Within one year 2 4 Between one and two years 2 1 Between two and three years 1 1 Between three and four years 1 Between four and five years 1 5 8 There is no material difference between the repayable principal and the total gross cash flows shown above.
Borrowings facilities undrawn committed facilities expire as follows: 2012 2011 m m Within one year 131 194 Between one and two years 10 Between two and three years 2,000 Between three and four years 2,000 Between four and five years 92 2,223 2,204 The Group defines net debt as follows: 2012 2011 m m Borrowings note 21 10,719 10,276 Derivatives in respect of net debt: assets note 16 234 223 liabilities note 16 95 126 Cash and cash equivalents note 19 2,081 2,194 Current available-for-sale investments note 15 26 57 8,473 7,928 160 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 22 Other provisions for liabilities and charges Restructuring Employee of existing related Other businesses benefits Fox River provisions Total m m m m m 1 January 2012 149 50 274 221 694 Differences on exchange 6 2 19 27 Provided in respect of the year 6 9 71 86 Utilised during the year 57 12 3 52 124 31 December 2012 92 45 271 221 629 Analysed on the balance sheet as current 47 17 146 210 non-current 45 28 271 75 419 92 45 271 221 629 The restructuring provisions relate to the restructuring and integration costs incurred and reported as adjusting items in the income statement.
The principal restructuring activities in 2012 and 2011 are as described in note 3 e. While some elements of the non-current provisions of 45 million will unwind over several years, as termination payments are made over extended periods in some countries, it is estimated that approximately 44% will unwind in 2014 and over 91% within five years.
Employee related benefits mainly relate to long-term employee benefits other than post-retirement benefits.
As the principal components of these provisions are long-service awards and jubilee payments due after a certain service period, they will unwind over several years.
It is estimated that approximately 39% of the non-current provisions of 28 million will unwind within five years.
A provision of 274 million was made in 2011 for a potential claim under a 1998 settlement agreement entered into by a Group subsidiary in respect of the clean-up of sediment in the lower Fox River.
Other provisions comprise balances set up in the ordinary course of general business that cannot be classified within the other categories, such as sales returns, onerous contracts, together with amounts in respect of supplier, excise and other disputes.
The nature of the amounts provided in respect of disputes is such that the extent and timing of cash flows is difficult to estimate, and the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided.
Amounts provided above are shown net of reversals of unused provisions which include 13 million for restructuring of existing businesses, 1 million for employee benefits and 52 million for other provisions.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 161 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 23 Trade and other payables 2012 2011 m m Trade payables 679 668 Duty, excise and other taxes 3,736 3,085 Accrued charges and deferred income 1,156 1,168 Social security and other taxation 15 8 Sundry payables 407 429 5,993 5,358 Current 5,827 5,174 Non-current 166 184 5,993 5,358 Accrued charges and deferred income include 5 million 2011: 8 million in respect of interest payable.
Amounts payable to related parties including associated undertakings are shown in note 29.
There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other payables and their fair value due to the short-term duration of the majority of trade and other payables.
Trade and other payables are predominantly denominated in the functional currencies of subsidiary undertakings with less than 3% in other currencies 2011: 5%.
24 Financial instruments and risk management Management of financial risks One of the principal responsibilities of Treasury is to manage the financial risks arising from the Groups underlying operations.
Specifically, Treasury manages, within an overall policy framework set by the Groups Main Board and Corporate Finance Committee CFC, the Groups exposure to funding and liquidity, interest rate, foreign exchange and counterparty risks.
The Groups treasury position is monitored by the CFC which meets regularly throughout the year and is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
The approach is one of risk reduction within an overall framework of delivering total shareholder return.
The Group defines capital as net debt see note 21 and equity see note 20.
The only externally imposed capital requirement for the Group is interest cover as described under Interest rate risk below.
The Group assesses its financial capacity by reference to cash flow, net debt and interest cover.
Group policies include a set of financing principles and key performance indicators including the monitoring of credit ratings, interest cover and liquidity.
These provide a framework within which the Groups capital base is managed and, in particular, the policies on dividends as a percentage of long-term sustainable earnings and share buy-back are decided.
The key objective of the financing principles is to appropriately balance the interests of equity and debt holders in driving an efficient financing mix for the Group.
The Group manages its financial risks in line with the classification of its financial assets and liabilities in the Groups balance sheet and related notes.
The Groups management of specific risks is dealt with as follows: Liquidity risk It is the policy of the Group to maximise financial flexibility and minimise refinancing risk by issuing debt with a range of maturities, generally matching the projected cash flows of the Group and obtaining this financing from a wide range of providers.
The Group has a target average centrally managed debt maturity of at least five years with no more than 20% of centrally managed debt maturing in a single rolling year.
As at 31 December 2012, the average centrally managed debt maturity was 7.2 years 2011: 7.0 years and the highest proportion of centrally managed debt maturing in a single rolling year was 19.3% 2011: 18.3%.
In November 2012, the Group issued a new 750 million bond with a maturity of January 2023.
In July 2012, the Group prepaid and cancelled a 450 million syndicated facility due October 2013.
This repayment was financed from Group cash balances.
In June 2012, the Group repaid a 337 million bond due in June 2012, and prepaid and cancelled a US$690 million syndicated facility due October 2012, a Mexican Peso 1,444 million borrowing due September 2014 and a Mexican Peso 1,025 million borrowing due November 2014.
These payments were financed from Group cash balances.
In June 2012, the Group issued new US$2 billion bonds: US$500 million with a maturity of June 2015, US$600 million with a maturity of June 2017 and US$900 million with a maturity of June 2022.
In June 2011, the Group established an US$2 billion commercial paper programme.
It is Group policy that short-term sources of funds including drawings under both the US$ programme and the existing Group 1 billion euro commercial paper ECP programme are backed by undrawn committed lines of credit and cash.
At 31 December 2012 no commercial paper was outstanding 2011: 85 million.
162 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 24 Financial instruments and risk management continued In November 2011, the Group issued a new 600 million bond with a maturity of November 2021.
In September 2011, the Group repaid a Mexican Peso 1,444 million borrowing which was due in September 2011 with a new Mexican Peso 1,444 million borrowing due 2014.
In August 2011, the Group extended the maturity date of a US$200 million facility from 2011 to 2016, and simultaneously increased the size of the facility to US$240 million.
This facility is drawable in Chilean peso and was drawn to the value of US$225 million at 31 December 2012 31 December 2011: US$225 million.
The undrawn element of US$15 million is available for drawing until February 2013.
In June 2011, the Group repaid a 530 million bond with the repayment financed from Group cash balances.
During the year, the Groups subsidiary in Brazil received proceeds of 356 million 2011: 401 million from short-term borrowings in respect of advance payments on leaf export contracts and repaid 350 million 2011: 519 million.
During the year the Groups subsidiary in Japan entered into an agreement with an affiliate of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation to assign part of its monthly trade receivables, without recourse, in return for cash.
Since the bank has acquired the risks associated with the assigned receivables, in accordance with IAS 39 this portion of the receivables has been derecognised from trade and other receivables, leading to an increase of 75 million in cash generated from operations.
The Group utilises cash pooling and zero balancing bank account structures in addition to inter-company loans and borrowings to ensure that there is the maximum mobilisation of cash within the Group.
The key objectives of Treasury in respect of cash and cash equivalents are to protect the principal value of cash and cash equivalents, to concentrate cash at the centre to minimise the required long-term debt issuance, and to optimise the yield earned.
The amount of debt issued by the Group is determined by forecasting the net debt requirement after the mobilisation of cash.
The Group continues to target investment-grade credit ratings: as at 31 December 2012 the ratings from Moodys and S&P were Baa1 positive outlook Astable outlook 2011: Baa1 BBB.
The S&P rating was upgraded from BBB to Aon 9 November 2012.
The strength of the ratings has underpinned the debt issuance during 2012 and 2011 and, despite the impact of the turbulence in financial markets, the Group is confident of its ability to successfully access the debt capital markets, as demonstrated with the issue of bonds in the euro, US dollar and sterling markets in 2012 and 2011.
As part of its short-term cash management, the Group invests in a range of cash and cash equivalents, including money market funds, which are regarded as highly liquid and are not exposed to significant changes in fair value.
These are kept under continuous review as described in the credit risk section below.
At 31 December 2012, cash and cash equivalents include 434 million invested in money market funds 2011: 558 million.
Subsidiary companies are funded by share capital and retained earnings, loans from the central finance companies on commercial terms, or through local borrowings by the subsidiaries in appropriate currencies.
All contractual borrowing covenants have been met and none of them is expected to inhibit the Groups operations or funding plans.
Currency risk The Group is subject to exposure on the translation of the net assets of foreign currency subsidiaries and associates into its reporting currency, sterling.
The Groups primary balance sheet translation exposures are to the US dollar, Canadian dollar, euro, Danish krone, Swiss franc, South African rand, Russian rouble, Brazilian real, Australian dollar, Malaysian ringgit and Singapore dollar.
These exposures are kept under continuous review.
The Groups policy on borrowings is to broadly match the currency of these borrowings with the currency of cash flows arising from the Groups underlying operations.
Within this overall policy, the Group aims to minimise all balance sheet translation exposure where it is practicable and cost-effective to do so through matching currency assets with currency borrowings.
The main objective of these policies is to protect shareholder value by increasing certainty and minimising volatility in earnings per share.
At 31 December 2012, the currency profile of the Groups gross debt, after taking into account derivative contracts, was 17% 2011: 14% US dollar, 45% 2011: 43% euro, 3% 2011: 3% Canadian dollar, 18% 2011: 12% sterling, nil 2011: 11% Australian dollar and 17% 2011: 17% other currencies.
The Group faces currency exposures arising from the translation of profits earned in foreign currency subsidiaries and associates and joint ventures: these exposures are not normally hedged.
Exposures also arise from: i foreign currency denominated trading transactions undertaken by subsidiaries.
These exposures comprise committed and highly probable forecast sales and purchases, which are offset wherever possible.
The remaining exposures are hedged within the Treasury policies and procedures with forward foreign exchange contracts and options, which are designated as hedges of the foreign exchange risk of the identified future transactions: and ii forecast dividend flows from subsidiaries to the centre.
To ensure cash flow certainty, the Group hedges such flows using forward foreign exchange contracts designated as net investment hedges of the foreign exchange risk arising from the investments in these subsidiaries.
IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis that shows the impact on the income statement and on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income of hypothetical changes of exchange rates in respect of non-functional currency financial assets and liabilities held across the Group.
All other variables are held constant although, in practice, market rates rarely change in isolation.
Financial assets and liabilities held in the functional currency of the Groups subsidiaries, as well as non-financial assets and liabilities and translation risk, are not included in the analysis.
The Group considers a 10% strengthening or weakening of the functional currency against the non-functional currency of its subsidiaries as a reasonably possible change.
The impact is calculated with reference to the financial asset or liability held as at the year-end, unless this is unrepresentative of the position during the year.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 163 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 24 Financial instruments and risk management continued A 10% strengthening of functional currencies against non-functional currencies would result in pre-tax profit being 1 million higher 2011: 16 million higher and items recognised directly in other comprehensive income being 5 million lower 2011: 227 million higher.
A 10% weakening of functional currencies against non-functional currencies would result in pre-tax profit being 1 million lower 2011: 23 million lower and items recognised directly in other comprehensive income being 5 million higher 2011: 277 million lower.
The exchange sensitivities on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income relate to hedging of certain net asset currency positions in the Group as well as on cash flow hedges in respect of future transactions, but does not include sensitivities in respect of exchange on non-financial assets or liabilities.
Interest rate risk The objectives of the Groups interest rate risk management policy are to lessen the impact of adverse interest rate movements on the earnings, cash flow and economic value of the Group and to safeguard against any possible breach of its financial covenants.
Additional objectives are to minimise the cost of hedging and the associated counterparty risk.
The Group targets an interest cover ratio, as calculated under its key central banking facilities, of greater than 5 and for 2012 it is 12.6 times 2011: 12.5 times.
The only externally imposed capital requirement the Group has is in respect of its centrally managed banking facilities, which require a gross interest cover of 4.5.
In order to manage its interest rate risk, the Group maintains both floating rate and fixed rate debt.
The Group sets targets within overall guidelines for the desired ratio of floating to fixed rate debt on both a gross and net basis at least 50% fixed on a net basis in the short to the medium-term as a result of regular reviews of market conditions and strategy by the Corporate Finance Committee and the board of the main central finance company.
At 31 December 2012, the relevant ratios of floating to fixed rate borrowings were 35:65 2011: 38:62 on a gross basis and 16:84 2011: 17:83 on a net basis.
Underlying borrowings are arranged on both a fixed rate and a floating rate basis and, where appropriate, the Group uses derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps, to vary the fixed and floating mix.
The interest rate profile of liquid assets is taken into account in determining the net interest rate exposure.
IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis that shows the impact on the income statement and on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income of hypothetical changes of interest rates in respect of financial assets and liabilities of the Group.
For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis, financial assets and liabilities with fixed interest rates are not included.
The Group considers a 100 basis point change in interest rates a reasonably possible change except where rates are less than 100 basis points.
In these instances it is assumed that the interest rates increase by 100 basis points and decrease to zero for the purpose of performing the sensitivity analysis.
A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in pre-tax profit being 16 million lower 2011: 18 million lower.
A 100 basis point decrease in interest rates, or less where applicable, would result in pre-tax profit being 1 million higher 2011: 21 million higher.
The effect of these interest rate changes on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is not material in either year.
Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of customer credit risk.
Subsidiaries have policies in place requiring appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The process for monitoring and managing credit risk once sales to customers have been made varies depending on local practice in the countries concerned.
Certain territories have bank guarantees, other guarantees and credit insurance provided in the Groups favour in respect of Group trade receivables, the issuance and terms of which are dependent on local practices in the countries concerned.
All derivatives are subject to ISDA agreements or equivalent documentation.
Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk on the amounts due from the related counterparties.
Generally the Group targets a long-term counterparty credit rating of at least A A2.
However, the Group recognises that due to the need to operate over a large geographic footprint, sovereign risk can be the determining factor on the suitability of a counterparty.
From time to time the Group may invest in short-dated corporate commercial paper and for this, the Group identifies specific counterparties with a minimum short-term rating of A1 P1.
Counterparty credit risk is managed on a global basis by limiting the aggregate amount and duration of exposure to any one counterparty, taking into account its credit rating.
The credit ratings of all counterparties are reviewed regularly.
The Group ensures that it has sufficient counterparty credit capacity of requisite quality to undertake all anticipated transactions throughout its geographic footprint, while at the same time ensuring that there is no geographic concentration in the location of counterparties.
The maximum exposure to the credit risk of financial assets at the balance sheet date is reflected by the carrying values included in the Groups balance sheet.
In addition, the Group has issued guarantees to third parties, part of which has been recognised on the balance sheet in accordance with IAS 39.
The unrecognised portion of these guarantees amounts to 26 million 2011: 28 million.
164 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 24 Financial instruments and risk management continued Price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risk on equity investments held by the Group, which are included in available-for-sale investments on the consolidated balance sheet, but the quantum of such is not material.
Hedge accounting In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document prospectively the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is reperformed periodically to ensure that the hedge has remained, and is expected to remain highly effective.
Fair value estimation The fair values of financial assets and liabilities with maturities of less than one year, other than derivatives, are assumed to approximate their book values.
For other financial instruments which are measured at fair value in the balance sheet, the basis for fair values is described below.
Fair value hierarchy The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value in accordance with the IFRS 7 classification hierarchy: 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale investments note 15 26 37 63 Derivatives relating to interest rate swaps note 16 209 209 cross-currency swaps note 16 10 10 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 154 154 Assets at fair value 26 373 37 436 Liabilities at fair value Derivatives relating to interest rate swaps note 16 55 55 cross-currency swaps note 16 30 30 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 65 65 others note 16 1 1 Liabilities at fair value 151 151 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 165 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 24 Financial instruments and risk management continued 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale investments note 15 17 42 38 97 Derivatives relating to interest rate swaps note 16 186 186 cross-currency swaps note 16 6 6 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 137 137 others note 16 9 9 Assets at fair value 17 380 38 435 Liabilities at fair value Derivatives relating to interest rate swaps note 16 22 22 cross-currency swaps note 16 46 46 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 182 182 others note 16 14 14 Liabilities at fair value 264 264 Level 1 financial instruments are traded in an active market and fair value is based on quoted prices at the year-end.
This category includes listed equity shares of nil 2011: 2 million.
Level 2 financial instruments are not traded in an active market, but the fair values are based on quoted market prices, broker dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
The Groups level 2 financial instruments include certain money market securities and most OTC derivatives.
The fair values of level 3 financial instruments have been determined using a valuation technique where at least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments valuation is not based on observable market data.
The Groups level 3 financial instruments primarily consist of an equity investment in an unquoted entity which is valued using the discounted cash flows of estimated future dividends.
The valuation assumes the following: future dividends grow by 2.0% 2011: 1.7% and a 100 basis points decrease in the growth rate would result in the valuation being 7 million lower 2011: 6 million lower : and discount rate of 6.5% 2011: 7.0% and a 100 basis points decrease in the discount rate would result in the valuation being 11 million higher 2011: 9 million higher.
The following table presents the changes in level 3 financial instruments: 2012 2011  for-sale investments investments m m 1 January 38 26 Gains included in other comprehensive income 13 Differences on exchange 1 1 31 December 37 38 166 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 25 Cash flow Cash generated from operations 2012 2011 m m Profit from operations 5,412 4,721 Adjustments for amortisation and impairment of trademarks 63 58 amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 53 365 depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 359 394 increase in inventories 755 47 increase in trade and other receivables 329 87 increase in trade and other payables 840 46 decrease in net retirement benefit liabilities 200 208 decrease increase in provisions for liabilities and charges 45 232 other non-cash items 39 63 Cash generated from operations 5,437 5,537 Profit from operations includes charges in respect of Group restructuring and integration costs referred to in note 3 e. These are also reflected in the movements in depreciation, amortisation, impairment, inventories, receivables, payables and provisions above and in the proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment shown in the Group cash flow statement.
The net cash outflow in respect of the Groups restructuring costs was 201 million 2011: 207 million, of which 228 million 2011: 217 million is included in cash generated from operations above.
Cash flows from investing activities a Purchases and proceeds on disposals of investments The purchases and disposals of investments which comprise available-for-sale investments and loans and receivables comprises a net cash inflow in respect of current investments of 24 million 2011: 3 million inflow.
b Property, plant and equipment Purchases of property, plant and equipment include 195 million in respect of the Groups acquisition of the freehold interest in Globe House the Groups headquarters in London.
The Group had leased the property on a 25-year lease which was due to expire in 2024.
The purchase price has been allocated to Freehold property in note 10. c Proceeds from associates share buy-backs The proceeds from associates share buy-backs reflect proceeds of 262 million 2011: 71 million in respect of the Groups participation in the share buy-back programme conducted by Reynolds American Inc. d Purchases of subsidiaries In 2012, the cash outflow relates to the cash consideration paid on the purchase of CN Creative Limited of 14 million offset by a 2 million inflow relating to the adjustment of the purchase price for Protabaco.
In 2011, net cash outflows of 295 million arose on the purchase of Protabaco reflecting the settlement of the original purchase consideration of 298 million less the acquired net cash and cash equivalents of 3 million.
Cash flows from financing activities a Cash flows from borrowings In November 2012, the Group issued a new 750 million bond with a maturity of January 2023.
In June 2012, the Group repaid a 337 million bond due in June 2012 and prepaid and cancelled a US$690 million syndicated facility due October 2012, a Mexican Peso 1,444 million borrowing due September 2014 and a Mexican Peso 1,025 million borrowing due November 2014.
During the year the Groups subsidiary in Brazil received proceeds of 356 million 2011: 401 million from short-term borrowings in respect of advance payments on leaf export contracts and repaid 350 million 2011: 519 million.
In November 2011, the Group issued a new 600 million bond with a maturity of November 2021.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 167 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 25 Cash flow continued In September 2011, the Group repaid a Mexican Peso 1,444 million borrowing which was due in September 2011 with a new Mexican Peso 1,444 million borrowing due 2014.
In June 2011, the Group repaid a 530 million bond.
The repayment was financed from Group cash balances.
b Movements relating to derivative financial instruments The movement relating to derivative financial instruments is in respect of derivatives taken out to hedge cash and cash equivalents and external borrowings, derivatives taken out to hedge inter-company loans and borrowings and derivatives treated as net investment hedges.
Derivatives taken out as cash flow hedges in respect of financing activities are also included in the movement relating to derivative financial instruments, while other such derivatives in respect of operating and investing activities are reflected along with the underlying transactions.
c Purchases of non-controlling interests In 2012, the purchase of non-controlling interest of 24 million relates to the acquisition of part of the non-controlling interests in British American Tobacco Bangladesh.
For 2011, the cash outflow of 10 million relates to the acquisition of non-controlling interests in Chile.
168 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 26 Business combinations and disposals a CN Creative Limited On 18 December 2012, the Group acquired CN Creative Limited, a UK-based company specialising in the development of e-cigarette technologies intended to offer smokers a less risky alternative to cigarettes.
The companys entire share capital was acquired from private investors for 40 million, of which 14 million has been paid.
The company, which has its own research and development facilities, currently has several e-cigarette products on the market as well as new, innovative e-cigarette technologies in the development pipeline.
The acquisition of CN Creative Limited is a natural extension of the Groups approach to tobacco harm reduction that has been evolving over a number of years.
The only material asset acquired was the companys intellectual property.
There was no difference between the book value and fair value of the assets acquired.
Part of the consideration payable is contingent upon the achievement of certain post-acquisition events.
The Group regards the successful outcome of these events as being more likely than not and anticipates making full payment within two years of the acquisition.
The impact of the acquired business upon actual results for 2012 was immaterial.
Had the acquisition taken place on 1 January 2012 it is estimated that Group revenue would have been 15,192 million and the Group profit from operations would have been 5,398 million for the 12 months to 31 December 2012, after charging 13 million for the amortisation of acquired intangibles.
b Productora Tabacalera fide Colombia, S. A. S. Protabaco On 11 October 2011, the Group acquired from Flentex Holdings Limited and Trioumvir Enterprises Limited, both private investor shareholders, a 100% stake in Productora Tabacalera fide Colombia, S. A. S. Protabaco.
The purchase price was subject to the final agreement of adjustments for working capital and net debt with the vendors.
This was finalised in July 2012 with a reduction of 2 million to the previously reported purchase price and goodwill.
The goodwill of 132 million on the acquisition of the cigarette business of Protabaco, stated at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction, arises as follows: Final fair value m Net assets acquired 164 Goodwill 132 Total consideration US$458 million 296 The goodwill of 132 million on the acquisition of the business represents a strategic premium to strengthen the Groups position in Latin Americas fourth largest market, building on the Groups existing business and anticipated synergies, that will arise from combining the businesses in Colombia, post-acquisition.
c Items classified as held-for-sale At 31 December 2012, held-for-sale assets comprise mainly land and buildings in Russia and Denmark which are being actively marketed for sale.
At 31 December 2011, the held-for-sale assets included an amount of 6 million which has been reclassified to property, plant and equipment during the current year.
d Termination of distributor arrangement With effect from 1 July 2011, the arrangement by which the Group acted as a distributor for a third party in Norway, was terminated.
This arrangement contributed 24 million to revenue and less than 1 million to profit from operations in the Western Europe region in the six months ended 30 June 2011.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 169 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 27 Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share-based payment arrangements of which the two principal ones are: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Nil-cost options exercisable after three years from date of grant with a contractual life of ten years.
Payout is subject to performance conditions based on earnings per share relative to inflation 50% of grant and total shareholder return, combining the share price and dividend performance of the Company by reference to two comparator groups 50% of grant.
Participants are not entitled to dividends prior to the exercise of the options.
A cash equivalent dividend accrues through the vesting period and is paid on vesting.
Both equity and cash-settled LTIPs are granted in March each year.
In 2011 the Management Board LTIP award was made in May.
Deferred Share Bonus Scheme DSBS Free ordinary shares released three years from date of grant and may be subject to forfeit if participant leaves employment before the end of the three-year holding period.
Participants receive a separate payment equivalent to a proportion of the dividend payment during the holding period.
Both equity and cash-settled grants are granted in March each year.
The Group also has a number of other arrangements which are not material for the Group and these are as follows: Share Option Scheme ESOS Options exercisable three years from date of grant with a contractual life of ten years, subject to earnings per share performance condition relative to inflation.
Participants are not entitled to receive dividends in the period prior to the exercise of the options.
The granting of options under this scheme ceased with the last grant made in March 2004 and final outstanding awards must be exercised by March 2014.
The awards were both equity and cash-settled.
Sharesave Scheme SAYE Options granted in March each year from 2011 onwards previously November until 2009 and no options were granted during 2010 by invitation at a 20% discount to the market price.
Options to this equity-settled scheme are exercisable at the end of a three-year or five-year savings contract.
The maximum amount that can be saved by a participant in this way is 3,000 in any tax year.
Share Reward Scheme SRS and International Share Reward Scheme ISRS Free shares granted in April each year maximum 3,000 in any year under the equity-settled scheme are subject to a three-year holding period.
Participants receive dividends during the holding period which are reinvested to buy further shares.
Partnership Share Scheme Open to all eligible employees, where employees can allocate part of their pre-tax salary to purchase shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. The maximum amount that can be allocated in this way to any individual is 1,500 in any tax year.
The shares purchased are held in a UK-based trust and are normally capable of transfer to participants tax free after a five-year holding period.
Further details on the operation of share-based payment arrangements can be found in the remuneration report.
Share-based payment expense The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of share-based payments were as follows: 2012 2011 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled m m m m LTIP note a 22 5 28 9 DSBS note b 46 13 43 12 SAYE note c 1 1 SRS note c 4 4 Total recognised in the income statement note 3 a 73 18 76 21 170 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 27 Share-based payments continued Share-based payment liability The Group issues to certain employees cash-settled share-based payments that require the Group to pay the intrinsic value of these sharebased payments to the employee at the date of exercise.
The Group has recorded liabilities in respect of vested and unvested grants at the end of 2012 and 2011: 2012 2011 Vested Unvested Vested Unvested m m m m LTIP 3.0 8.6 3.7 11.4 DSBS 0.1 14.6 17.1 ESOS 0.2 0.6 Total liability 3.3 23.2 4.3 28.5 a Long-Term Incentive Plan Details of the movements for the equity and cash-settled LTIP scheme during the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, were as follows: 2012 2011 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled Number Number Number Number of options of options of options of options in thousands in thousands in thousands in thousands Outstanding at start of year 6,589 829 7,292 960 Granted during the period 1,834 303 2,256 252 Exercised during the period 2,129 317 2,335 299 Forfeited during the period 345 36 624 84 Outstanding at end of year 5,949 779 6,589 829 Exercisable at end of year 751 102 374 135 The weighted average British American Tobacco p. l. c. share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 31.96 2011: 25.52 for equity-settled and 31.88 2011: 25.86 for cash-settled options.
The outstanding shares for the year ended 31 December 2012 had a weighted average contractual life of 8.0 years 2011: 8.0 years for the equity-settled scheme, and 7.9 years 2011: 7.5 years for the cash-settled share-based payment arrangements.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 171 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 27 Share-based payments continued b Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Details of the movements for the equity and cash-settled DSBS scheme during the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, were as follows: 2012 2011 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled Number Number Number Number of options of options of options of options in thousands in thousands in thousands in thousands Outstanding at start of year 6,109 954 5,482 911 Granted during the period 2,025 368 2,474 388 Exercised during the period 2,667 431 1,780 295 Forfeited during the period 99 13 67 50 Outstanding at end of year 5,368 878 6,109 954 Exercisable at end of year 45 2 3 The weighted average British American Tobacco p. l. c. share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 32.02 2011: 25.08 for equity-settled and 32.01 2011: 25.65 for cash-settled options.
The outstanding shares for the year ended 31 December 2012 had a weighted average contractual life of 1.3 years 2011: 1.3 years for the equity-settled scheme, and 1.3 years 2011: 1.2 years for the cash-settled scheme.
c Other schemes ESOS The number of outstanding equity-settled options at the end of the year were 204,002 2011: 385,451 and cash-settled options were 9,150 2011: 24,870.
SAYE The number of outstanding options at the end of the year for the three-year scheme were 280,383 2011: 317,484 and for the five-year scheme were 526,023 2011: 564,484.
SRS and ISRS The number of outstanding shares at the end of the year for the Share Reward Scheme were 565,312 2011: 591,204 and for the International Share Reward Scheme were 49,318 2011: 76,213.
Valuation assumptions Assumptions used in the Black-Scholes models to determine the fair value of share options at grant date were as follows: 2012 2011 LTIP DSBS LTIP DSBS Expected volatility % 26 26 25 25 Average expected term to exercise years 3.5 3.0 3.5 3.0 Risk-free rate % 0.7 0.6 2.0 1.6 1.8 Expected dividend yield % 3.9 3.9 4.8 4.2 4.8 Share price at date of grant 32.08 32.08 23.77 27.15 23.77 Fair value at grant date 21.79 21.68 28.50 15.60 18.60 20.58 Where two figures have been quoted for the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the first number represents the awards made to employees below Management Board level and the second number to awards made to the members of the Management Board as at the date of award.
Market condition features were incorporated into the Monte-Carlo models for the total shareholder return elements of the LTIP, in determining fair value at grant date.
Assumptions used in these models were as follows: 2012 2011 % % Average share price volatility FTSE 100 comparator group 39 40 39 Average share price volatility FMCG comparator group 26 26 26 Average correlation FTSE 100 comparator group 38 39 21 Average correlation FMCG comparator group 36 35 35 Where two figures have been quoted for the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the first number represents the awards made to employees below Management Board level and the second number to awards made to the members of the Management Board as at the date of award.
172 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 27 Share-based payments continued Fair values determined from the Black-Scholes and Monte-Carlo models use assumptions revised at the end of each reporting period for cash-settled share-based payment arrangements.
The expected British American Tobacco p. l. c. share price volatility was determined taking account of the return index the share price index plus the dividend reinvested over a five-year period.
The respective FMCG and FTSE 100 share price volatility and correlations were also determined over the same periods.
The average expected term to exercise used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural conditions, forfeiture and historical experience.
The risk-free rate has been determined from market yield curves for government gilts with outstanding terms equal to the average expected term to exercise for each relevant grant.
The expected dividend yield was determined by calculating the yield from the last two declared dividends divided by the grant share price.
In addition to these valuation assumptions, LTIP awards contain earnings per share performance conditions.
As these are non-market performance conditions they are not included in the determination of fair value of share options at the grant date, however they are used to estimate the number of awards expected to vest.
This payout calculation is based on expectations published in analysts forecasts.
28 Group employees The average number of persons employed by the Group and its associates during the year, including Directors, was 87,485 2011: 87,813.
2012 2011 Number Number Asia-Pacific 15,307 15,351 Americas 17,336 16,661 Western Europe 11,703 12,138 EEMEA 12,017 12,115 Subsidiary undertakings 56,363 56,265 Associates 31,122 31,548 87,485 87,813 Details of Directors remuneration, share options and retirement benefits are given in the remuneration report.
Included within the employee numbers for Western Europe are certain employees in the UK in respect of central functions.
Some of the costs of these employees are allocated or charged to the various regions and markets in the Group.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 173 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 29 Related party disclosures The Group has a number of transactions and relationships with related parties, as defined in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, all of which are undertaken in the normal course of business.
Transactions and balances with associates relate mainly to the sale and purchase of cigarettes and tobacco leaf.
Amounts receivable from associates in respect of dividends included in the table below were 84 million 2011: 87 million.
The Groups share of dividends from associates, included in other net income in the table below, was 487 million 2011: 486 million.
2012 2011 m m Transactions revenue 32 28 purchases 330 342 other net income 481 487 Amounts receivable at 31 December 92 97 Amounts payable at 31 December 34 40 On 17 December 2012, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, BATUS Japan Inc. BATUSJ, entered into an Amendment and Extension Agreement referred to as the Amendment with a wholly owned subsidiary of Reynolds American, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company referred to as RJRTC.
The Amendment modifies the American blend Cigarette Manufacturing Agreement referred to as the 2010 Agreement, effective as of 1 January 2010.
Prior to the Amendment, the term of the 2010 Agreement was scheduled to expire on 31 December 2014, subject to early termination and extension provisions.
Pursuant to the Amendment, the Manufacturing Agreement will remain in effect beyond 31 December 2014, provided that either RJRTC or BATUSJ may terminate the Manufacturing Agreement by furnishing three years notice to the other party, with any such notice to be given no earlier than 1 January 2016.
In 2012, the Group acquired non-controlling interests of shareholders in British American Tobacco Bangladesh for 24 million.
This transaction is shown as a 21 million reduction to reserves attributable to the owners of the parent and a 3 million reduction in reserves attributable to non-controlling interests in note 20.
In 2011, the Group acquired non-controlling interests of shareholders in Chile for 10 million.
This transaction is shown as a 10 million reduction to reserves attributable to the owners of the parent in note 20.
During the year, the Group received proceeds of 262 million 2011: 71 million in respect of its participation in the share buy-back programme conducted by Reynolds American Inc.
The key management personnel of British American Tobacco consist of the members of the Board of Directors of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and the members of the Management Board.
No such person had any material interest during the year in a contract of significance other than a service contract with the Company or any subsidiary company.
The term key management personnel in this context includes the respective members of their households.
2012 2011 m m The total compensation for key management personnel, including Directors, was: salaries and other short-term employee benefits 22 21 post-employment benefits 3 3 share-based payments 10 8 35 32 There were no other long-term benefits applicable in respect of key personnel other than those disclosed in the remuneration report in the Annual Report.
174 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements and all other expenses of and responsibility for managing the 30 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments defence of the Tobacco Litigation.
RJRT has assumed control of the The Group is subject to contingencies pursuant to requirements defence of the Tobacco Litigation involving B&W, to which RJRT is that it complies with relevant laws, regulations and standards.
also a party in most but not all of the same cases.
Failure to comply could result in restrictions in operations, Included in the US Litigation section below are all significant cases damages, fines, increased tax, increased cost of compliance, where B&W and or a UK company is named as a defendant and all interest charges, reputational damage or other sanctions.
These cases where RJRT is named as a defendant as a successor to B&W matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
In cases where the the RJRT Successor Cases.
The RJRT Successor Cases are covered Group has an obligation as a result of a past event existing at the by the RJRT Indemnification.
Of the RJRT Successor Cases, the balance sheet date, it is probable that an outflow of economic section below includes details of all cases where there has been an resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount adverse judgment and also notes favourable judgments.
of the obligation can be reliably estimated, a provision will be recognised based on best estimates and management judgment.
US litigation There are, however, contingent liabilities in respect of litigation, The total number of US product liability cases pending at taxes in some countries and guarantees for which no provisions 31 December 2012 naming B&W was approximately 7,918 2011: have been made.
Of these, 4,837 cases are RJRT Successor Cases.
For all of these cases, British American Tobacco Group General litigation companies have the protection of the RJRT Indemnification.
British Product liability litigation American Tobacco Investments Limited Investments has Group companies, notably Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc. been served as a co-defendant in one of those cases 2011: three.
formerly Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation B&W as No other UK based Group company has been served as a well as other leading cigarette manufacturers, are defendants in a co-defendant in any US product liability case pending as at number of product liability cases.
In a number of these cases, the 31 December 2012.
Since many of these pending cases seek amounts of compensatory and punitive damages sought are significant.
unspecified damages, it is not possible to quantify the total amounts being claimed, but the aggregate amounts involved in US Indemnity such litigation are significant, possibly totalling billions of US In 2004, B&W completed the combination of the assets, liabilities dollars.
The cases fall into three broad categories: medical and operations of its US tobacco business with R. J. Reynolds reimbursement cases: class actions: and individual cases.
Tobacco Company RJRT, a wholly-owned subsidiary of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. pursuant to which Reynolds a Medical reimbursement cases American Inc. was formed the Business Combination.
As part These civil actions seek to recover amounts spent by government of the Business Combination, B&W contributed to RJRT all of the entities and other third-party providers on healthcare and welfare assets and liabilities of its US cigarette and tobacco business, costs claimed to result from illnesses associated with smoking.
subject to specified exceptions, in exchange for a 42% equity At 31 December 2012, one US medical reimbursement suit was ownership interest in Reynolds American Inc. pending against B&W 2011: one.
This suit has been brought by As a result of the Business Combination, RJRT assumed all liabilities an Indian tribe in the Indian Tribal Court in South Dakota.
No other of B&W except liabilities to the extent relating to businesses and suits are pending against B&W by county or other political assets not contributed by B&W to RJRT and other limited subdivisions of the states.
categories of liabilities and contributed subsidiaries or otherwise to the extent related to B&Ws tobacco business as conducted in b Class actions the United States on or prior to 30 July 2004.
In addition, RJRT At 31 December 2012, B&W was named as a defendant in some six agreed to indemnify B&W and each of its associates other than 2011: eight separate actions attempting to assert claims on behalf Reynolds American Inc. and its subsidiaries against, among other of classes of persons allegedly injured or financially impacted matters, all losses, liabilities, damages, expenses, judgments, through smoking or where classes of tobacco claimants have been attorneys fees, etc.
to the extent relating to or arising from such certified.
If the classes are or remain certified and the possibility of assumed liabilities or the assets contributed by B&W to RJRT the class-based liability is eventually established, it is likely that RJRT Indemnification.
individual trials will be necessary to resolve any claims by individual plaintiffs.
Class action suits have been filed in a number of states The scope of the RJRT Indemnification includes all expenses and contingent liabilities in connection with litigation to the extent against individual cigarette manufacturers and their parent relating to or arising from B&Ws US tobacco business as corporations, alleging that the use of the terms lights and conducted on or prior to 30 July 2004, including smoking and ultralights constitutes unfair and deceptive trade practices.
health tobacco litigation, whether the litigation is commenced The Cleary putative class action complaint was filed in state court before or after 30 July 2004 the Tobacco Litigation.
in Chicago, Illinois on 3 June 1998 against several defendants, Pursuant to the terms of the RJRT Indemnification, RJRT is liable for alleging that all defendants fraudulently concealed facts regarding any possible judgments, the posting of appeal bonds or security, the addictive nature of nicotine, and that defendant Philip Morris fraudulently marketed Marlboro Lights cigarettes, and sought British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 175 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued with the California Superior Court requesting that the class be 30 Contingent liabilities and financial decertified.
On 23 May 2012, the court issued a Tentative Ruling commitments continued that, among other things, denied the defendants motion to decertify Fourth Amended Complaint was granted on 22 June 2010 and the class and, as a result, the case will go forward as a lights later affirmed by the Seventh Circuit.
The plaintiffs petition for class action.
At the plaintiffs request, the court entered an order on rehearing was denied by the Seventh Circuit and the time for 26 September 2012, dismissing with prejudice from the case defendants plaintiffs to seek further review to the US Supreme Court expired B&W, RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco Company, Liggett Group and Liggett & in February 2012.
As no review was sought, the case is now over.
Philip Morris USA Inc. is the sole defendant remaining in the case.
In a medical monitoring class action brought on behalf of Louisiana smokers Scott the jury returned a verdict on 28 July 2003 in favour of Howard is a lights class action filed in February 2000 in the Circuit the defendants on the plaintiffs claim for medical monitoring and Court, Madison County, Illinois.
A judge certified a class on 18 found that cigarettes were not defectively designed.
On 6 June 2003, the trial judge issued an order also made certain findings against the defendants on claims relating staying all proceedings pending resolution of Price v. Philip Morris, to fraud, conspiracy, marketing to minors and smoking cessation.
Inc. a lights class action against Philip Morris, Inc. in the Illinois On 21 May 2004, the jury returned a verdict in the amount of state court.
The plaintiffs appealed this stay order to the Illinois Fifth US$591 million, requiring the defendants to fund a cessation District Court of Appeals, which affirmed the Circuit Courts stay programme to help eligible class members stop smoking.
After the order on 19 August 2005.
There is currently no activity in the case.
intermediate court of appeals decision affirming in part the judgment Jones is a case filed in December 1998 in the Circuit Court, Jackson below, the trial court entered an amended judgment in the case.
The defendants removed the case to the US was later amended but largely affirmed by the Louisiana Court of District Court for the Western District of Missouri on 16 February Appeals.
Pursuant to the judgment, the defendants were required 1999.
The action was brought by tobacco product users and to deposit US$242 million with the court, with interest from 21 July purchasers on behalf of all similarly situated Missouri consumers.
The defendants application for writ of certiorari by The plaintiffs allege that their use of the defendants tobacco the Supreme Court of Louisiana along with the defendants motion products has caused them to become addicted to nicotine.
The to stay execution of the judgment was denied, as was defendants plaintiffs seek to recover an unspecified amount of compensatory subsequent petition for writ of certiorari in the US Supreme Court.
The case was remanded to the Circuit Court August 2011, RJRT paid US$139 million the portion of the judgment on 17 February 1999.
There has been limited activity in this case.
allocated to RJRT and B&W into the trust for the funding of the programme.
On 10 May 2012, the parties entered into an agreement Parsons is a case filed in February 1998 in the Circuit Court, Ohio wherein the plaintiffs will request attorneys fees and costs of County, West Virginia.
The plaintiff sued asbestos manufacturers and approximately US$114 million be paid from the monies deposited US cigarette manufacturers, including B&W, seeking compensatory in the trust, the plaintiffs will release their claims that the defendants and punitive damages US$1 million individually and an unspecified were liable to pay their attorneys fees and costs, and the defendants sum for the class for alleged personal injuries arising from their will waive the right to assert claims to 50% of any unspent or surplus exposure to respirable asbestos fibres and cigarette smoke.
The case money in the trust at the termination of the ten-year smoking has been stayed pending a final resolution of the plaintiffs motion to cessation programme.
refer tobacco litigation to the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation filed in In Re: Tobacco Litigation in the Supreme Court of Appeals of Black is a lights class action filed in November 2000 in the Circuit West Virginia.
Moreover, Parsons has been stayed pursuant to the Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri.
B&W removed the case to the US Bankruptcy Code because three defendants filed bankruptcy District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri on 23 September petitions on 26 December 2000.
On 25 October 2005, the plaintiffs filed a motion to remand, which was granted on 17 March 2006.
On 16 April 2008, the court Young is a case filed in November 1997 in the Circuit Court, stayed the case pending US Supreme Court review in Good v. Altria Orleans Parish, Louisiana.
The plaintiffs brought an Environmental Group, Inc. On 28 June 2011, the court issued an order removing Tobacco Smoke ETS class action on behalf of all residents of the case from the trial docket.
A status conference is currently Louisiana who, though not themselves cigarette smokers, have scheduled for 3 February 2014. been exposed to second-hand smoke from cigarettes which were manufactured by the defendants, and who allegedly suffered Brown is a case filed in June 1997 in the Superior Court, San Diego injury as a result of that exposure.
The plaintiffs seek to recover an County, California.
On 11 April 2001, the court granted in part the unspecified amount of compensatory and punitive damages.
On plaintiffs motion for certification of a class composed of California 13 October 2004, the trial court stayed this case pending the residents who smoked at least one of the defendants cigarettes from outcome of appellate review in the Scott class action in Louisiana 10 June 1993 through 23 April 2001, and who were exposed to the discussed above.
defendants marketing and advertising activities in California.
On 7 March 2005, the court granted the defendants motion to decertify In Engle a case in Florida, a jury awarded a total of US$12.7 the class, but this decision was later reversed by the California million to three class representatives, and in a later stage of the Supreme Court to the extent that it was based upon the conclusion three-phase trial procedure adopted in this case, a jury assessed that all class members were required to demonstrate standing, and US$17.6 billion in punitive damages against B&W.
The defendants filed a motion on 9 January 2012 2003, the intermediate appellate court reversed the trial courts 176 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements entered for two of the three Engle class representatives to stand, 30 Contingent liabilities and financial but dismissed the judgment entered in favour of the third Engle commitments continued class representative.
Finally, the Florida Supreme Court permitted judgment and remanded the case to the trial court with putative Engle class members to file individual lawsuits against the instructions to fide-certify the class this was upheld on 6 July 2006.
Engle defendants within one year of the courts decision Further, the Florida Supreme Court permitted the judgments subsequently extended to 11 January 2008.
Engle progeny cases, as at 31 December 2012: Engle progeny Engle progeny cases in which cases in which B&W has been RJRT is named as served both state a successor and federal courts to B&W in Florida Number of cases 42 4,821 Number of plaintiffs 76 5,714 Phase three trials of individual Engle class members, as at 31 December 2012: Additional Phase 3 Engle Trials naming RJRT as successor to B&W proceeding to verdict Total number of trials 37 Number of trials resulting in plaintiffs verdicts 22 Total damages awarded in final judgments against RJRT as successor to B&W approximately US$73,248,732 Amount of overall damages comprising compensatory damages approximately US$48,150,000 of overall US$73,248,732 Amount of overall damages comprising punitive damages approximately US$150,000 of overall US$248,732 Number of adverse judgments appealed by RJRT 17 Number of adverse judgments not yet appealed, in which RJRT still has time to file an appeal 5 In one of the appeals that was decided, the Florida intermediate appellate court affirmed the liability finding but vacated the damages award and remanded the matter to the trial court.
In three of the appeals that were decided, the Florida intermediate appellate courts affirmed final judgments in favour of plaintiffs.
In the other two appeals that were decided, the Florida intermediate appellate courts reversed the final judgment and remanded the matter to the trial court for a new trial on all issues.
One of these remanded cases has since been retried, and resulted in a plaintiffs verdict.
The time to file an appeal from this adverse judgment has not yet expired.
In June 2009, the Florida legislature amended its existing bond cap the question of whether the bond cap violates the Florida Constitution.
statute by adding a US$200 million bond cap that applies to all The Florida Supreme Court accepted jurisdiction over the issue of phase three Engle progeny cases in the aggregate and establishing the constitutionality of the bond cap on 23 January 2012.
On individual bond caps for individual cases in amounts that vary 31 August 2012, the Florida Supreme Court entered an order depending on the number of judgments in effect at a given time.
Plaintiff subsequently moved for a rehearing, In May 2011, Florida removed the provision in this legislation that but this was denied.
Plaintiff had until 10 January 2013 to file a would have permitted this bond cap to expire on 31 December petition for writ of certiorari to the United States Supreme Court.
Plaintiffs in several Engle progeny cases have unsuccessfully Plaintiff did not file a petition for writ of certiorari.
challenged the constitutionality of the bond cap.
One of these appellate courts has since certified to the Florida Supreme Court British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 177 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 30 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Individual actions As at: Total number of cases 31 December 2011 3,091 31 December 2012 3,074 2,574 ETS cases brought by flight attendants who were members of a class action Broin that was settled on terms that allow compensatory but not punitive damages claims by class members.
396 Cases brought in consolidated proceedings in West Virginia, where the first phase of the trial began on 19 October 2011 but ended in a mistrial on 8 November 2011 trial is scheduled for 15 April 2013.
42 Engle progeny cases that have been filed directly against B&W please see earlier table on page 177.
62 Cases filed by other individuals.
In addition, there are 16 cases filed by other individuals naming punitive damages.
The motion was fully briefed, and oral argument RJRT as successor to B&W.
These cases are subject to the RJRT was held on 28 August 2012.
Indemnification and are not detailed here.
In February 2005, a Missouri jury in Lincoln Smith awarded Of the individual cases that remain pending as of 31 December US$500,000 in compensatory damages and US$20 million in 2012, two resulted in verdicts against B&W: In December 2003, a punitive damages against B&W.
Following B&Ws appeal, on New York jury in Frankson awarded US$350,000 in compensatory 31 July 2007, an intermediate appellate court affirmed the damages against B&W and two industry organisations.
In January compensatory damages award and reversed the punitive damages 2004, the same jury awarded US$20 million in punitive damages.
award, reasoning that the plaintiffs failed to produce sufficient On 22 June 2004, the trial judge granted a new trial unless the evidence to justify the verdict.
Following a transfer to the Missouri parties agreed to an increase in compensatory damages to Supreme Court and a subsequent remand by that court, the US$500,000 and a decrease in punitive damages to US$5 million, intermediate appellate court on 16 December 2008 again upheld of which US$4 million would be awarded against B&W.
The the award of compensatory damages, reversed the jurys award plaintiff agreed to a decrease in punitive damages but B&W did not of US$20 million in punitive damages, and ordered a new trial agree to an increase in compensatory damages.
On 25 January on punitive damages.
On 20 August 2009, a Missouri jury 2005, B&W appealed to an intermediate New York State appellate awarded US$1.5 million in punitive damages against B&W.
On court, which affirmed the judgment on 5 July 2006, except insofar 24 September 2009, B&W filed a motion for a new trial and a as it dismissed the plaintiffs design defect claims.
The court denied motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict.
On the same B&Ws motion for leave to reargue, or in the alternative, for leave to date, the plaintiffs filed a motion to increase the punitive appeal to the New York Court of Appeals on 5 October 2006.
On damages award to US$20 million, and a motion to vacate, modify 8 December 2006, the trial judge granted the plaintiffs application or set aside judgment, or in the alternative, for a new trial.
On for entry of judgment in the amounts of US$5 million in punitive 21 December 2009, the court denied the plaintiffs and B&Ws damages and US$175,000 in compensatory damages.
After an initial oral argument on both parties court also granted the plaintiffs motion to vacate that part of the appeals in September 2011, the intermediate appellate court 2004 order granting a new trial unless the parties agreed to an ordered the parties to reargue the case en banc.
On 2 October increase in compensatory damages to US$500,000.
RJRT posted a 2012, the intermediate appellate court reversed the jurys award of bond in the approximate amount of US$8 million on 3 July 2007. punitive damages on the grounds that the trial courts conduct in Following B&Ws appeal, the intermediate appellate court modified the 2009 trial had exceeded the scope of its mandate, and the final judgment on 29 September 2009 by reversing the award remanded for a new trial solely to determine the amount of of punitive damages, and remanding the case for a new punitive punitive damages.
On 30 October 2012, the intermediate appellate damages trial.
On 15 January 2010, the appellate court denied the court denied B&Ws application for transfer to the Missouri plaintiffs motion for additional time to seek leave to appeal to the Supreme Court, and overruled B&Ws motion for rehearing.
B&W New York Court of Appeals, but granted the plaintiff more time to filed in the Missouri Supreme Court an application for transfer to file a motion for leave to reargue to the appellate court, which was that court on 14 November 2012, and plaintiffs filed opposition on denied on 12 March 2010.
On 17 July 2012, defendants filed a 26 November 2012.
On 18 December 2012, the Missouri Supreme motion for summary judgment dismissing plaintiffs claims for Court granted B&Ws application for transfer.
178 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Cases pending against B&W which were filed by or on behalf of individuals and in which it is contended that diseases or deaths have been caused by cigarette smoking or by exposure to ETS Financial Statements that it had jurisdiction over the case.
On 24 June 2011, the 30 Contingent liabilities and financial  Court issued an Order stating that it commitments continued would decide defendants outstanding procedural objections UK-based Group companies together with the merits of the case.
The case will now enter the Investments has been served in the following US cases pending as of evidentiary stage.
31 December 2012: one class action alleging violations of Kansas Brazil antitrust and consumer protection laws, the Daric Smith case In August 2007, the So Paulo Public Prosecutors office filed a mentioned below: and one individual action Perry.
The Company medical reimbursement claim on behalf of all states against Souza and Investments have been served in one individual action alleging Cruz S. A.
An identical claim was filed against Philip Morris.
Souza misappropriation of novel ideas and breach of contract Gero, Cruzs motion to consolidate the two claims was rejected and the although on 7 November 2011, the trial court dismissed the Company two cases were ordered to progress independently.
On 4 October and Investments from the case, which orders the plaintiff appealed 2011, the court dismissed the action against Souza Cruz, with on 7 December 2011.
The plaintiff filed an appeal on 9 January Conduct-based claims 2012 and Souza Cruz filed its counter arguments on 17 February In the Daric Smith case, purchasers of cigarettes in the state of 2012.
The case records were remitted to the So Paulo Court of Appeals in September 2012.
Kansas brought a class action in the Kansas State Court against B&W, Investments and certain other tobacco companies seeking Canada injunctive relief, treble damages, interest and costs.
The allegations In Canada there are nine active statutory actions for recovery of are that the defendants participated in a conspiracy to fix or healthcare costs arising from the treatment of smoking and healthmaintain the price of cigarettes sold in the US, including in the related diseases.
These proceedings name various Group companies state of Kansas, in violation of the Kansas Restraint of Trade Act.
as defendants, including the Company, Investments, B.
A. T Industries After the close of discovery, all defendants, including Investments, p. l. c Industries, Carreras Rothmans Limited collectively the UK moved for summary judgment in late October and early November Companies and Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited Imperial, the 2010.
On 13 May 2011, Investments supplemented its summary Groups operating company in Canada.
Legislation enabling judgment motion on the basis of its fide minimis market share provincial governments to recover the healthcare costs has been and the inapplicability of the Kansas Restraint of Trade Act to a enacted in all 10 provinces and two of three territories in Canada and non-resident such as Investments that did not purchase, sell or has been proclaimed in force in nine provinces.
The Acts have manufacture goods in the state of Kansas.
received Royal Assent in Nova Scotia, Northwest Territories and On 26 March 2012, the court entered an order granting all of the Nunavut but have yet to be proclaimed into force.
Actions have defendants summary judgment motions and dismissing the begun against various Group companies, including Imperial, in plaintiffs first amended petition with prejudice.
On 18 July 2012, British Columbia, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal on various points.
On or about Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, Alberta, Saskatchewan and Prince 1 August 2012, all defendants filed notices of cross-appeal, with Edward Island PEI.
In Quebec, three Canadian manufacturers, Investments filing its own separate notice of cross-appeal to address, including Imperial, are challenging the enabling legislation: the amongst other issues, various orders denying the defendants claims Quebec government has commended an action.
of privilege over certain categories of documents during discovery.
Plaintiff-appellants moving brief is currently due no later than 25 January 2013.
Product liability outside the United States As at 31 December 2012, active claims against the Groups companies existed in 17 markets outside the US 2011:17.
The only markets with more than five claims were Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Italy, and Nigeria.
There are medical reimbursement actions in Canada, Argentina, Brazil, Nigeria, and Spain.
a Medical reimbursement cases Argentina In 2007, the Argentina Tort Law Association ATLA, a nongovernmental organization, filed a reimbursement action against Nobleza Piccardo S. A. I. C. y. F. Nobleza and Massaln Particulares.
Nobleza filed its defence on 1 October 2009.
Preliminary objections from Nobleza and the federal government a third party were considered by the Civil Court in late 2009 and, on 23 December 2009, the Civil Court declared its lack of jurisdiction to hear the claim.
On 11 March 2010, the case was sent to the  Court, which determined British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 179 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 30 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Act pursuant to which claim Companies named as Canadian province was brought defendants and date served Current stage British Columbia Tobacco Damages and Health Imperial This case remains at a preliminary case management Care Costs Recovery Act 2000 stage.
The next step will be hearings on discovery Investments motions relating to the plaintiffs damages model in Industries July, 2013.
Damages have not been quantified.
No trial date has been set.
Other former Rothmans Group companies New Brunswick Tobacco Damages and Health The UK Companies have all Both Imperial and the UK Companies have now filed Care Costs Recovery Act 2006 been named as defendants.
their defences and document production is underway.
A motion to set a case schedule is set for Imperial and the UK Companies May 2013.
Damages have been quantified at have all been served.
Ontario Tobacco Damages and Health The UK Companies have all On 5-7 November 2012, appeals by the BAT defendants Care Costs Recovery Act 2009 been named as defendants.
of both the jurisdictional and costs orders were heard by the Court of Appeal and taken under advisement.
Imperial and the UK Companies have all been served.
Imperial filed a third-party notice against several native manufacturers claiming contribution and indemnity as well as damages in the amount of CAD$1.5 billion.
Imperial also filed a third-party claim against the Federal government claiming malfeasance in public office due to the governments failure to enforce the law against illicit manufacturers.
The Attorney General has indicated its intention to file a Motion to Strike the Claim, but no date has been set for this preliminary motion.
Pending the outcome of the Court of Appeals decision on jurisdiction, the case will then be under case management.
Damages have been quantified at CAD$50 billion.
Newfoundland Tobacco Health Care Costs The UK Companies have all The UK Companies have filed jurisdictional motions and Labrador Recovery Act 2006 been named as defendants.
but as yet there is no scheduled date for the motions to be heard due to a pending issue on the admissibility of Imperial and the UK the plaintiffs evidence for the jurisdictional motions.
Companies have all Damages have not been quantified by the province.
Saskatchewan Tobacco Damages and Health The UK Companies have all This case is at a preliminary case management stage.
Care Costs Recovery Act 2012 been named as defendants.
The UK Companies have filed jurisdictional motions, and the hearing on these motions is scheduled to Imperial and the UK commence 29 April 2013.
A case management judge Companies have all has been appointed.
Damages have not been been served.
Imperial has served a motion to defer filing defences until pending jurisdictional challenges have been resolved.
There are no discovery motions to date in this jurisdiction.
180 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 30 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Act pursuant to which claim Companies named as Canadian province was brought defendants and date served Current stage Manitoba Tobacco Damages Health Imperial Imperial has served a motion to defer filing defences Care Costs Recovery Act 2006 until pending jurisdictional challenges have been Investments resolved.
The province has not quantified damages.
Industries No trial date has been set.
Other former Rothmans Group companies Alberta Crowns Right of Recovery Imperial and the UK On 8 August, 2012, Imperial was served with the Act 2009 Companies have all been Alberta Medicaid suit.
Damages have been quantified named as defendants.
This case is at a preliminary stage.
Quebec Tobacco Related Damages Investments, Industries, On 25 August 2009, Imperial and the other Canadian and Health Care Costs and Carreras Rothmans manufacturers filed a constitutional challenge of the Recovery Act 2005 Limited have been named Quebec Medicaid Legislation.
Imperial General AG filed a motion to dismiss the and the UK Companies constitutional challenge and following a hearing, the have been served.
Quebec Superior Court dismissed the motion.
On 28 January 2011, the Court of Appeal denied the AGs leave application, permitting Imperials challenge to proceed.
On 8 June, 2012, the Quebec Medicaid suit was served upon Imperial.
The government is seeking CAD$60 billion.
On 14 December 2012, Imperials Motion to stay the Medicaid suit pending the resolution of the constitutional challenge, was heard by the Court and taken under advisement.
A case management judge has been appointed, a motion to stay pending the constitutional challenge was dismissed but otherwise no further steps will be required by Imperial pending a resolution of certain jurisdictional challenges by other defendants including other group companies.
Prince Edward Tobacco Damages and Imperial and the UK On 15 November, 2012, Imperial was served with the Island Health Care Costs Companies PEI Medicaid suit.
This case is at a preliminary case Recovery Act 2009 management stage.
Damages have not been quantified by the province.
A case management judge has been appointed and the defendants must file jurisdictional motions by 15 March 2013.
motions for preliminary injunctive relief, seeking, inter alia, orders Nigeria As of 31 December 2012, six medical reimbursement actions filed to restrain the defendants from various alleged marketing and by the federal government and five Nigerian states Lagos, Kano, distribution practices including the sale of tobacco products within Gombe, Oyo, Ogun were pending in the Nigerian courts.
British 1,000 meters of any public places that are predominantly locations for minors.
American Tobacco Nigeria Limited, the Company and Investments have been named as defendants in each of the cases.
The Company and Investments have filed preliminary objections The plaintiffs in the six cases seek a total of approximately 44.8 challenging the jurisdiction of the Nigerian courts over them.
On billion in damages, including special, anticipatory and punitive 22 June 2010, the Oyo High Court partially granted the Companys damages, restitution and disgorgement of profits, as well as and Investments preliminary objections and set aside the service declaratory and injunctive relief.
On 13 and 25 May 2010, of the writ of summons.
The Company and Investments appealed respectively, the plaintiffs in the Kano and Ogun state cases filed the courts order insofar as it denied the remainder of the relief British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 181 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued On 12 November 2008, the So Paulo Court of Appeals overturned 30 Contingent liabilities and financial the lower courts unfavourable decision of 2004, finding that commitments continued the lower court had failed to provide the defendants with an requested, and the Court of Appeal has yet to set a date for hearing opportunity to produce evidence.
The case was returned to the of the appeals.
In the federal governments action, the Federal High Lower Civil Court on 19 March 2009, who ordered designation Court has yet to hear the preliminary objections filed by the of court-appointed medical and advertising experts.
The parties Company and Investments, which remain pending as of 31 submitted questions to these court-appointed experts who December 2012. subsequently delivered their reports.
Each party also provided expert reports commenting on the court-appointed experts The High Courts of Lagos, Kano, Gombe and Ogun states denied conclusions.
On 16 May 2011, the court granted Souza Cruzs the preliminary objections filed by the Company and Investments, motion to dismiss the action in its entirety on the merits.
Plaintiffs and the companies have appealed.
High Court proceedings in the filed an appeal of the dismissal on 22 July 2011.
Souza Cruz filed Lagos and Kano state cases have been stayed pending the appeals its response on 5 October 2011.
On 10 November 2011, the filed by the Company and Investments.
In the Gombe and Ogun case records were sent to the Public Prosecutors Office.
On cases, the High Courts have adjourned proceedings without date.
20 December 2011, the Public Prosecutors Office presented a As of 31 December 2012, the appeals filed by the Company and non-binding, advisory opinion that rejected most of Souza Cruzs Investments remain pending in the Lagos, Kano, Gombe, and legal defence arguments.
The case records were sent to the So Ogun cases, and have yet to be heard by the Court of Appeal.
Paulo State Court of Appeals and were immediately sent to the A hearing before the Court of Appeal is currently scheduled for Public Prosecutors office for General Public and Collective Interest.
25 February 2013 in the Ogun appeals filed by the Company, On 1 March 2012, the case files returned with an unfavourable Investments and British American Tobacco Nigeria Limited.
opinion given by the Public Prosecutor, who advised that the Court should find in favour of the appeal brought by ADESF and thereby Spain fully reverse the appealed judgment.
On 6 September 2012, the In early 2006, the Junta fide Andalucia the Junta, in Spain, filed case was assigned to a new temporary Reporting Justice in the 7th a medical reimbursement action against the State and tobacco Chamber of Private Law of the So Paulo Court of Appeals, pending companies including BAT Espaa S. A. before the contentiousreference to a permanent Reporting Justice of the case.
The State filed preliminary objections to the Juntas claim, with tobacco companies filing supporting briefs.
The Brazilian Association for the Defense of Consumers Health The court upheld these preliminary objections and dismissed the Saudecon filed a class action against Souza Cruz and Philip claim in November 2007.
The Juntas appeal of this ruling to the Morris in the City of Porto Alegre, Brazil on 3 November 2008.
Supreme Court was dismissed in September 2009.
However, in The plaintiff purports to represent all Brazilian smokers whom, it May 2009, the Junta filed a new  alleges, are unable to quit smoking and lack access to cessation claim with similar allegations.
The defendants filed procedural treatments.
The plaintiff is seeking an order requiring the named objections, which were rejected by the court.
The next procedural defendants to fund, according to their market share, the purchase step is for the court to provide the defendants with copies of the of cessation treatments for these smokers over a minimum period exhibits to the claim which were not attached to the claim when of two years.
Souza Cruz was served with this complaint on originally filed.
Once the defendants receive copies of the exhibits, 19 November 2008.
On 18 May 2009, the case was dismissed with the term to file their answers 20 business days will resume.
The plaintiffs appealed in August 2009 and Souza Cruz and Philip Morris both responded.
On 22 July b Class actions 2011, the Public Prosecutors Office issued a non-binding opinion saying that the favourable first instance ruling should be vacated Brazil based on procedural issues.
On 25 August 2011, the reporting There are currently three class actions being brought in Brazil.
justice of the appellate court rejected the Public Prosecutors One is also a medical reimbursement claim So Paulo Public Prosecutors Office, and is therefore discussed above.
A fourth Offices opinion, finding that the trial court ruling should not be class action recently ended in the affirmance on appeal of a nullified.
On 1 November 2011, the 9th Chamber of the Rio Grande defence judgment, as described below.
do Sul State Court of Appeals granted the Public Prosecutors Office special appeal, ordering the remittance of the case records in In 1995, the Associao fide Defesa da Sade do Fumante ADESF the first instance to complete proper notification to the Public class action was filed against Souza Cruz and Philip Morris in the Prosecutors Office of the sentence.
On 14 December 2011, the So Paulo Lower Civil Court alleging that the defendants are liable Public Prosecutors Office filed a special appeal.
Souza Cruzs to a class of smokers and former smokers for failing to warn of counter arguments were submitted on 10 February 2012.
The case was stayed in 2004 pending the 28 March 2012, the Rio Grande do Sul State Court of Appeals defendants appeal from a decision issued by the lower civil court recognized the applicability of the special appeal and ordered it that held that the defendants had not met their burden of proving sent up to the Superior Court of Justice.
On 26 September 2012, that cigarette smoking was not addictive or harmful to health, a new Reporting Justice of the Superior Court of Justice was notwithstanding an earlier interlocutory order that the So Paulo designated for the case.
The parties await judgment of the Court of Appeals had issued, which directed the trial court to special appeal at the Superior Court of Justice.
allow more evidence to be taken before rendering its decision.
182 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements commenced an action against Imperial, seeking the release of the 30 Contingent liabilities and financial funds and a declaration that the Growers Claim is not a Released commitments continued Claim Ontario claim.
Imperial successfully argued its In 2004, the State of Sergipe instigated a class action seeking preliminary motion in the Ontario claim in July 2010 and the court compensation for smokers in Sergipe State who purportedly tried ordered that the claim be stayed in favour of the arbitration to quit smoking.
The lower court denied the plaintiffs request for provisions stipulated in the CA and raised by Imperial in its Notice early relief and determined ANVISA a federal government health of Arbitration.
The Court of Appeal denied the Ontario governments agency be ordered to join the case as co-defendants.
As ANVISA is appeal in July 2011, and also ruled that the question of whether the a federal agency, the case was removed to the federal court where Growers Claim constitutes a Released Claim under the CA must ANVISA successfully argued that it lacked standing to be sued.
The be determined by the courts, thereby splitting the issues.
claim against ANVISA was dismissed and the federal court sent the Imperial was recently served with certification materials in the case back to the lower state court for proceedings to continue.
On 25 January 2012, the case However, the action was stayed on 18 December 2009 pending a management judge ruled that Imperials prescription challenge decision by the Superior Court on which court has jurisdiction.
On will proceed prior to certification hearings in the class action.
The 26 March 2010 the Superior Court determined that the civil court judge also ruled that the question of whether or not the Growers had jurisdiction of the matter.
On 19 October 2011, the court claim is a Released Claim under the CA should proceed as part dismissed the action with judgment on the merits.
The plaintiff of the Ontario claim rather than the class action Growers Claim, filed an appeal on 9 January 2012.
Souza Cruzs counterand should proceed as the first order of business.
The Released arguments were submitted on 9 February 2012.
The case records Claim challenge was heard on 19 September 2012 and dismissed were sent to the 1st Chamber of the Sergipe State Court of on 2 January 2013.
Imperial has appealed that decision.
The date Appeals, as well as to the Public Prosecutors Office for it to for the appeal has not yet been set.
On 9 July 2012, the 1st Chamber of the Sergipe State Court of Appeals by unanimous decision upheld There are currently two class actions in Quebec.
On 21 February the lower court ruling that dismissed the case.
Plaintiffs did not file 2005, the Quebec Superior Court granted certification in two class a Special Appeal from this judgment and the case is now closed.
actions against Imperial and two other domestic manufacturers, which have a combined value of CAD$27 billion plus interest and Canada costs.
The court certified two classes, which include residents of There are 10 class actions being brought in Canada against Quebec who suffered from lung, throat and laryngeal cancer or Group companies.
emphysema as of November 1998 or developed these diseases Knight is a lights class action in which the plaintiff alleges that the thereafter and who smoked a minimum of fifteen cigarettes a day marketing of light and mild cigarettes is deceptive because it for at least five years, and residents who were addicted to nicotine conveys a false and misleading message that those cigarettes are at the time the proceedings were filed and who have since remained less harmful than regular cigarettes.
Although the claim arises from addicted.
In Quebec, there is no right of appeal for a defendant health concerns, it does not seek compensation for personal injury upon certification.
The plaintiffs have served a Statement of but for amounts spent on light and mild products and a Claim.
The trial in this matter commenced on 12 March 2012 disgorgement of profits from Imperial.
The Supreme Court of and remains ongoing.
British Columbia certified a class of all consumers of cigarettes In June 2009, four new smoking and health class actions were filed in bearing light or mild descriptors since 1974 manufactured in Nova Scotia, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta, against Canadian British Columbia by Imperial.
Imperial filed an appeal against the manufacturers and foreign companies, including the UK Companies certification which was heard in February 2006.
In Saskatchewan, a number of the UK companies have court confirmed the certification of the class but has limited any been released from the action.
No date has been set for the certification financial liability, if proven, to the period from 1997. motion hearing.
In Nova Scotia the proceedings have not progressed.
The federal governments motion to strike out the third-party There are service issues in relation to the UK Companies in Alberta notice issued against it by Imperial was upheld by the Supreme and Manitoba.
A suit identical in content and parties was filed in Court which dismissed the third-party claim on the basis that the June 2012 in Ontario, and the UK Companies and Imperial have federal governments impugned conduct constituted valid policy been served in this action.
benefiting public health and is therefore not subject to civil liability.
In July 2010, two further smoking and health class actions in British In 2009, Imperial was served with a class action filed by Ontario Columbia were served on Imperial and the UK companies.
The tobacco farmers and the Ontario Flue-Cured Tobacco Growers Bourassa claim is allegedly on behalf of all individuals who have Marketing Board Growers claim.
The plaintiffs allege that suffered chronic respiratory disease and the McDermid claim Imperial improperly paid lower prices for tobacco leaf destined for proposes a class based on heart disease.
Both claims state that duty-free products that was smuggled back into Canada and sold they have been brought on behalf of those who have smoked a in the domestic market, as opposed to the higher domestic leaf minimum of 25,000 cigarettes.
The UK Companies and Imperial price.
Imperial deposited the amount owing to the government of objected to jurisdiction.
Subsequently a number of the UK Ontario pursuant to the Comprehensive Agreement the CA into Companies were released from the action.
No certification an escrow account, claiming that the Growers Claim was a motion hearing date has been set.
Released Claim under the CA and the CA permitted Imperial to set-off that amount against costs incurred as a result of the claim including damages, if any.
In response, the Ontario government British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 183 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued Imperial in 2000.
Soon after this acquisition, and as part of the 30 Contingent liabilities and financial acquisition plan, Genstar Corporation began to sell most of its commitments continued assets, including the non-asbestos related operations and Italy subsidiaries of Flintkote.
The liquidation of Flintkote assets In or about June 2010, British American Tobacco Italia S. p. A BAT produced cash proceeds and, having obtained advice from the law Italia was served with a class action filed in the Civil Court of firm of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP S&C and other consultants Rome by the consumer association, Codacons, and three class that sufficient assets would remain to satisfy reasonably foreseeable representatives.
Plaintiffs primarily asserted addiction-related liabilities, Flintkotes Board of Directors authorised the payment of a claims.
The class action lawsuit was rejected at the first instance dividend of US$170.2 million in 1986 and a further dividend of Civil Court of Rome and appellate Rome Court of Appeal court US$355 million in 1987.
In 2003, Imperial divested Flintkote and levels.
In July 2012, Codacons filed an appeal before the Italian then, in 2004, Flintkote filed for bankruptcy in the United States Supreme Court.
BAT Italias response brief, which for the most part Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware.
In 2006, Flintkote, addressed procedural issues, was filed on 13 November 2012.
The representatives of both the present and future asbestos claimants, Supreme Court has yet to set a date for hearing of the appeal.
and individual asbestos claimants were permitted by the bankruptcy court to file a complaint in California state court Venezuela against Imperial and numerous other defendants including S&C, The Venezuelan Federation of Associations of Users and for the recovery of the dividends and other compensation under Consumers filed a class action against the Venezuelan government various legal and equitable theories.
seeking regulatory controls on tobacco and recovery of medical The California case remains in the discovery phase, but the court expenses for future expenses of treating smoking-related illnesses has resolved multiple issues that will narrow the case.
On 19 January 2009, C. A Cigarrera Bigott Sucs.
following a multi-day bench trial, the court issued a preliminary Cigarrera Bigott notified the court of its intention to appear as decision dismissing S&C.
Flintkote then settled with S&C for a a third party.
The court adjourned a public hearing scheduled for nominal sum before the decision was made final.
All claims and July 2009 in which Cigarrera Bigotts status as a third party would cross claims in the litigation asserted by or against S&C have now be determined and parties would make submissions.
Secondly, after a series of bench trials, on 5 2011, the Constitutional Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice October 2011, the court issued preliminary orders deciding issued decision number 494, which established the rules for class multiple preliminary issues regarding Flintkotes claims to recover action procedures.
On 5 December 2012 Cigarrera Bigott was the dividends and Flintkotes claim that Imperial is its alter ego admitted as third party, and defenses are due on 28 February 2013. for purposes of asbestos liabilities.
Among other things, the court c Individual personal injury claims has concluded that Flintkote is barred from seeking to recover, under any theory, transfers that occurred after 31 December 1986.
Aside from the United States, there were approximately 329 2011: 353 individual smoking cases pending world-wide as This ruling should preclude Flintkotes efforts to recover the 1987 of 31 December 2012 against Group companies.
Approximately dividend of US$355 million.
The court also concluded that Flintkote has no standing to pursue its claim that Imperial is its three-quarters of these cases are in Brazil and are not detailed here.
alter ego for purposes of asbestos liability, holding that any such As at 31 December 2012, in Italy there were 28 2011: 30 smoking claims must instead be pursued by individual asbestos plaintiffs.
and health cases filed against BAT Italia by or on behalf of individuals These rulings were made final on 6 January 2012.
The remaining in which it is contended that diseases or deaths have been caused by preliminary issue pending is whether Flintkote is estopped from cigarette smoking, including nine 2011: 10 cases pending appeal pursuing certain fraudulent conveyance remedies as a result of and two labour cases for alleged occupational exposure pending contrary statements it made early in the litigation.
before the first instance labour courts.
In addition, there were three Discovery is ongoing and will likely continue through mid to late 2011: three individual lights cases pending before justices of the 2013.
The Court has not set a trial date, but a trial could occur in peace and 28 2011: 26 lights cases on appeal.
The alter ego claims of the individual asbestos On 23 June 2003, an individual action was brought in the Danish claimants known in this lawsuit as the Hopkins Plaintiffs will High Court against House of Prince A S and Skandinavisk not proceed to trial until after the Flintkote claims are concluded.
Tobakskompagni A S seeking DKK485,450 for alleged smokingrelated diseases and loss of earnings.
On 8 December 2011, the Fox River Court issued judgment in favour of the defendants and ordered In Wisconsin, the authorities have identified potentially responsible costs against the plaintiff.
On 31 January 2012, the plaintiff filed an parties PRPs to fund the clean-up of river sediments in the appeal to the Supreme Court.
The pollution was caused by discharges of Polychlorinated Biphenyls PCBs from paper mills and other Other Non-Tobacco Related Claims facilities operating close to the river.
The cost of the clean-up work has been estimated to be in excess of US$900 million.
Among the Flintkote PRPs is NCR Corporation NCR which is liable for the clean-up The Flintkote Company Flintkote, a US asbestos production and costs in a large portion of the river under the terms of a consent sales company, was included in the acquisition of Genstar decree and a unilateral administrative order issued by the United Corporation by Imasco Limited in 1986 and became a Group States Environmental Protection Agency.
subsidiary following the restructuring of Imasco Limited now 184 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements handed down in September 2012 the court declined to do so, 30 Contingent liabilities and financial holding that the amount of which Appleton is liable to pay 60% commitments continued must be ascertained via the dispute resolution provisions of the In 1978, a subsidiary of Industries, later known as Appleton Papers Settlement Agreement.
As a result, Industries understands that Inc. Appleton, purchased what was then NCRs Appleton Papers NCR has now invoked the dispute resolution provisions contained Division from NCR.
In 1978, Industries also incorporated a US in the Settlement Agreement as against Appleton.
NCR has also entity by the name of BATUS, Inc. BATUS, which in 1980 made further demands on Appleton.
became the holding company for all of Industries US subsidiaries, Industries has become aware that Windward settled the majority of including Appleton.
As the holding company, BATUS obtained Appletons insurance claims over which it had control at what insurance policies for itself and its subsidiaries that included Industries believes constituted a significant discount, and has coverage for certain environmental liabilities.
Industries BATUS made dividend payments to its former and current shareholders of spun off the Appleton business in 1990 via a Demerger Agreement approximately US$810 million, leaving it holding, according to its with Wiggins Teape Appleton p. l. c. now known as Windward latest accounts, approximately US$70 million of net assets.
Prospects Ltd Windward, and Wiggins Teape Appleton Accordingly, there may be a greater risk that the assets of Holdings p. l. c. now known as Arjo Wiggins US Holdings Ltd Windward are insufficient to meet its obligations under the collectively, the AWA Entities, obtaining what Industries believes indemnities Industries believes it has been granted.
Appletons were full indemnities from the AWA Entities and Appleton for past own accounts indicate limited financial resources.
In December 2011, Windward asserted that it did not indemnify Disputes between NCR, Appleton, and Industries as to the Industries pursuant to the terms of the 1990 Demerger Agreement indemnities given and received under the original purchase in respect of Industries obligations under the Settlement agreement in 1978 have been the subject of litigation that was Agreement.
Industries disputes Windwards position and has commenced in 1995, a settlement agreement executed in 1998 commenced proceedings against both Windward and Appleton the Settlement Agreement, and an arbitration award in 2005. which has also denied owing Industries an indemnity.
Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement and the arbitration While Industries believes it may have defences to claims by NCR award, Industries and Appleton generally have an obligation to against it under the Settlement Agreement and arbitration award share the costs of Fox River environmental claims with NCR, but and remains hopeful that Appleton and the AWA Entities will satisfy Industries has never been required to pay any sums in this regard their obligations with respect to the Fox River clean-up, taking into because Appleton and the AWA Entities have paid the non NCR account court decisions and the possibility of appeals, sums paid 60% share of the clean-up costs to date, and the authorities have to date on the clean-up and other available information, Industries not identified Industries or BATUS as PRPs.
Windward also believes it may have an exposure of some 271 million in clean-up separately, and indirectly, indemnified Appleton in respect of the related costs.
Accordingly, Industries has made a provision for that clean-up costs.
amount, which was treated as an adjusting item in the 2011 A trial took place in Wisconsin in February 2012 to determine income statement.
The previously recognised provision was 274 whether NCR is liable for the clean-up costs in the upper portion of million, with 3 million utilised in respect of legal costs.
This figure the Fox River.
This trial addressed issues as to whether NCR is liable is necessarily subject to uncertainty.
as a result of the sale, by a predecessor of NCRs Appleton Papers Industries has become aware that NCR is also being pursued by Division, of scrap paper, or broke, to other PRPs which, in turn, Georgia-Pacific LLC Georgia-Pacific, the owner of a facility on discharged PCBs into the river in the course of recycling the broke.
the Kalamazoo River in South-West Michigan which released PCBs A judgment issued in July 2012 found NCR was not liable on this into that river.
Georgia-Pacific has been designated as a PRP in respect basis.
It is envisaged that the other PRPs may seek to appeal this of the river.
Georgia-Pacific contends that NCR is responsible for, or decision in the future.
should contribute to, the clean-up costs, because i a predecessor to NCRs Appleton Paper Division sold broke containing PCBs to As regards the mid and lower portions of the Fox River, in March Georgia Pacific or others for recycling: ii NCR itself sold paper 2012, the US Government filed a motion in Wisconsin for a containing PCBs to Georgia Pacific or others for recycling: and or iii preliminary injunction against NCR and Appleton, seeking to NCR is liable for sales to Georgia Pacific or others of PCB containing establish the scope of the clean-up operations to be carried out broke by Mead Corporation, which, like the predecessor to NCRs on the Fox River in 2012.
In light of a subsequent ruling by the Appleton Papers Division, coated paper with the PCB containing same court that Appleton is not a PRP, the injunction was granted emulsion manufactured by NCR.
A full trial on liability is scheduled to against NCR alone on 27 April 2012.
NCR appealed this decision take place in February 2013.
Industries understands that NCR does and it was affirmed on 3 August 2012.
Full trial of the merits of the not believe that NCR has any liability in relation to the Kalamazoo US Governments action took place in December 2012, and a River and that it will vigorously contest Georgia-Pacifics claim.
Industries itself believes that Industries only has potential exposure Subsequent to the injunction, and by letters dated 3 May 2012, under the Settlement Agreement or arbitration award if NCR is NCR made demands on both Appleton and Industries for payment unsuccessful in its defence of the claim and it is found that PCB of the sum of US$6.6 million, and stated to be due on a joint and contamination of the Kalamazoo River is due to broke supplied by several basis pursuant to the terms of the Settlement Agreement.
a predecessor of NCRs Appleton Papers Division.
Appleton refused to pay this sum, whereupon NCR filed a motion in Wisconsin in order to enforce the terms of the Settlement Agreement and arbitration award against Appleton.
In a ruling British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 185 Financial Statements Notes on the accounts continued 30 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Industries is taking active steps to protect its interests, including seeking to confirm its indemnities and to procure the repayment of the Windward dividends, with a view to restoring value to Windward and, accordingly, the indemnities it believes were granted to Industries.
General litigation conclusion While it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular case or of the amount of any possible adverse verdict, the Group believes that the defences of the Groups companies to all these various claims are meritorious on both the law and the facts, and a vigorous defence is being made everywhere.
If an adverse judgment is entered against any of the Groups companies in any case, an appeal will be made.
Such appeals could require the appellants to post appeal bonds or substitute security in amounts which could in some cases equal or exceed the amount of the judgment.
In any event, with regard to US litigation, the Group has the benefit of the RJRT Indemnification.
At least in the aggregate, and despite the quality of defences available to the Group, it is not impossible that the Groups results of operations or cash flows in any particular period could be materially affected by this and by the final outcome of any particular litigation.
Having regard to all these matters, with the exception of Fox River, the Group i does not consider it appropriate to make any provision in respect of any pending litigation as set out in this note and ii does not believe that the ultimate outcome of this litigation will significantly impair the Groups financial condition.
Tax litigation The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery of a number of taxes.
The Group is and has been subject to a number of tax audits covering, amongst others, excise tax, value added taxes, sales taxes, corporate taxes, withholding taxes and payroll taxes.
The estimated costs of known tax obligations have been provided in these accounts in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
In some countries, tax law requires that full or part payment of disputed tax assessments be made pending resolution of the dispute.
To the extent that such payments exceed the estimated obligation, they would not be recognised as an expense.
In some cases disputes are proceeding to litigation.
While the amounts that may be payable or receivable could be material to the results or cash flows of the Group in the period in which they are recognised, the Board does not expect these amounts to have a material effect on the Groups financial condition.
186 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 30 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Operating leases Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases comprise leases where payments fall due: 2012 2011 m m Property Within one year 56 70 Between one and five years 126 183 Beyond five years 49 129 231 382 Plant and equipment Within one year 26 31 Between one and five years 37 47 63 78 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 187
