ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 77 Basis of preparation continued Recent accounting developments continued IFRS10 Consolidated financial statements requires a parent to present consolidated financial statements as those of a single economic entity, replacing the requirements previously contained in IAS27 Consolidated and separate financial statements and SIC-12 Consolidation special purpose entities.
The standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS11 Joint arrangements replaces IAS31 Interests in joint ventures and requires a party to a joint arrangement to determine the type of joint arrangement in which it is involved by assessing its rights and obligations and then account for those rights and obligations in accordance with that type of joint arrangement.
IFRS12 Disclosure of interests in other entities requires the extensive disclosure of information that enables users of financial statements to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, interests in other entities and the effects of those interests on its financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
IFRS13 Fair value measurement replaces the guidance on fair value measurement in existing IFRS accounting literature with a single standard.
IAS27 Consolidated and separate financial statements reissued as IAS27 Separate financial statements as amended in 2011.
This standard is an amended version of IAS27 Consolidated and separate financial statements which now deals only with the requirements for separate financial statements, which have been carried over largely unchanged from IAS27 Consolidated and separate financial statements.
Requirements for consolidated financial statements are now contained in IFRS10 Consolidated financial statements.
The impact on the Group financial statements of adopting IFRS10, IFRS11, IFRS12, IFRS13 and IAS27 is currently under review.
However the adoption of these standards is not expected to have a material impact.
Financial risk management The Group operates internationally and is exposed to a variety of financial risks including currency, interest rate, market price, liquidity and credit.
The Groups overall financial risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance by using derivative instruments to lower funding costs, alter interest rate exposures arising as a result of mismatches between assets and liabilities or to achieve greater certainty of future costs.
The use of derivatives forms part of the Groups overall risk management framework as determined by the board through the GRACC.
The Groups funding and exposure to interest rate and FX rate risk are managed by the Groups treasury function in accordance with a policy framework approved by the GRACC.
The framework lays out the Groups appetite for risk and the steps to be taken to manage these risks.
The GRACC receives bi-monthly reports on the activities of the treasury function and is also responsible for approving significant transactions such as new financing arrangements or changes to the Groups hedging strategy.
The GRACC sets and monitors treasurys counterparty limits in conjunction with the risk team.
The Groups exposure to market price risk arises mainly through counterparties to matched principal and exchange-traded transactions failing to fulfil their obligations or through trade mismatches and other errors.
In matched principal transactions, the Group acts as an intermediary by serving as counterparty for identified buyers and sellers in matching, in whole or in part, reciprocal back-to-back trades.
In order to facilitate customer transactions and provide liquidity, the Group may participate in certain marketplaces by posting quotations.
On occasion, the act of posting quotations in pursuit of customer orders can result in the Group becoming principal to unmatched trades.
In exchange-traded transactions, the Group executes the trade as principal and then novates the contract to its client.
A failure by the client to accept the trade would result in the Group becoming exposed to market price risk.
The market price risk the Group faces in these situations is restricted to short-term price movements in the underlying instrument temporarily held by the Group and movements in FX rates.
Any such market price risk arising is identified, monitored and reported to senior management on a daily basis and to the GRACC.
Policies and procedures are in place to reduce the likelihood of such trade mismatches and, in the event that they arise, the Groups policy is to liquidate or hedge and liquidate these principal positions as soon as reasonably practicable.
The Company is not exposed to market price risk as it holds no listed investments, and has no trading activity.
Details of the exposure and ways in which the Group and Company manages currency and interest rate risk are disclosed in note 10, liquidity risk in note 6 and credit risk in note 15.
