ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 75 Basis of preparation Preparation of financial statements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have also been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified to include the fair value of certain financial instruments in accordance with IFRS.
The financial statements are prepared in pound sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and presented in millions.
The significant accounting policies adopted by the Group and Company are included within the notes to which they relate and are shaded in grey.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Management consider goodwill note 5 and tax note 8 to be the areas where increased judgement is required.
This is discussed further in the notes relating to these areas.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be based on amounts which differ from those estimates.
Judgements, estimates and assumptions are continuously evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
After making relevant enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The financial statements continue to present the notes in an order that reflects managements view of the importance of information contained in the notes to the performance and position of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2012.
Details of the order of the notes can be found in the index on page 78 of the financial statements.
Presentation of the income statement The Group maintains a columnar format for the presentation of its consolidated income statement.
The columnar format enables the Group to continue its practice of improving the understanding of its results by presenting profit for the year before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
This is the profit measure used to calculate adjusted EPS note 2 and is considered to be the most appropriate as it better reflects the Groups underlying cash earnings.
Profit before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items are reconciled to profit before tax on the face of the consolidated income statement.
The column acquisition and disposal costs includes: any re-measurement after initial recognition of deferred contingent consideration which has been classified as a liability: any gains or losses on the revaluation of previous interests: any gains or losses on the disposal of investments, associates or subsidiaries: and costs associated with a combination that do not constitute fees relating to the arrangement of financing.
The column may also include items such as gains or losses on the settlement of pre-existing relationships with acquired businesses and the re-measurement of liabilities that are above the value of indemnification.
Items which are of a non-recurring nature and material, when considering both size and nature, are disclosed separately to give a clearer presentation of the Groups results.
These are shown as exceptional items on the face of the consolidated income statement.
On the face of the consolidated income statement, basic and diluted EPS from continuing operations have also been disclosed.
This enables the Group to provide clarity of the EPS of the continuing core business.
The Company has taken advantage of section 408 of the Companies Act not to present its own income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
Basis of consolidation The Groups consolidated financial statements include the results and net assets of the Company, its subsidiaries and the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
An entity is regarded as a subsidiary if the Group has control over its strategic, operating and financial policies and intends to hold the investment on a long-term basis for the purpose of securing a contribution to the Groups activities.
The results of companies acquired during the year are included in the Groups results from the effective date of acquisition.
The results of companies disposed of during the year are included up to the effective date of disposal.
