76 Basis of preparation continued Basis of consolidation continued The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
On consolidation, the accounting policies of Group companies the Company and its subsidiaries are consistent with those applied by the Group.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated as part of the consolidation process.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group has an interest and, in the opinion of the directors, exercises joint control over its operating and financial policies.
An interest exists where an investment is held on a long-term basis for the purpose of securing a contribution to the Groups activities.
Joint ventures are proportionately consolidated, whereby the Groups consolidated income statement and balance sheet include the Groups share of the income and assets on a line-by-line basis.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has an interest and, in the opinion of the directors, can exercise significant influence, but not control, over its operating and financial policies.
Significant influence generally exists where the Group holds more than 20% and less than 50% of the shareholders voting rights.
Associates are accounted for under the equity method whereby the Groups consolidated income statement includes its share of their profits and losses and the Groups consolidated balance sheet includes its share of their net assets.
Foreign currencies In individual entities, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the prior month closing exchange rate between the functional currency and the foreign currency.
At each end of the reporting period, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
Exchange differences are recognised in the consolidated income statement, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where these form part of the net investment of an overseas business or are designated as hedges of a net investment or cash flow and, therefore, the changes in value are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
On consolidation, the results of businesses with non-pound sterling functional currencies are translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the average exchange rates for the period where these approximate to the rate at the date of the transactions.
Assets and liabilities of overseas businesses are translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
Exchange differences arising are recognised within other comprehensive income.
Cumulative translation differences arising after the transition to IFRS are taken to the consolidated income statement on disposal of the net investment.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a non-pound sterling entity are treated as assets and liabilities of that entity and translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the period closing rate.
Where applicable, the Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising before the date of transition to IFRS as denominated in the presentational currency of the Group.
In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the average exchange rate for the year or at the rate prevailing at the time of the transaction where more appropriate.
Recent accounting developments The following amendment is mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 April 2011 and is considered relevant to the Group: Revised IAS24 Related party disclosures issued in November 2009 supersedes IAS24 Related party disclosures issued in 2003.
The adoption of this standard will not have a material impact on the Group.
The following new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, but are not effective for the financial year beginning 1 April 2011 and have not been early adopted: IFRS9 Financial instruments addresses classification and measurement of financial assets, as the first phase of the replacement of IAS39 Financial Instruments recognition and measurement and is effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2015, subject to EU endorsement.
The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future adoption of the standard is still under review.
