Notes to the onancial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 37.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Basis of consolidation is re-measured to the final redemption amount with any periodic Capital management On 17 July 2012, Andrew MacKay, Director of Corporate Strategy, The Group financial statements consolidate the financial changes to the estimated liability recognised in the consolidated The Group is supervised on a consolidated basis by the UKs announced his decision to step down from the Board with eect statements of IG Group Holdings plc and the entities it controls income statement.
On expiry of the forward contract the liability Financial Services Authority FSA.
The Groups operations in from 31 July 2012, as noted in the Chairmans statement and Chief its subsidiaries, made up to the reporting date, as listed in note 17. is eliminated as paid and any dierence in the value of the nonAustralia, Japan, Singapore, South Africa and the United States Executives review.
controlling interest to the exercise price deducted from equity.
Individual capital requirements in these Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, jurisdictions are taken into account when managing the 39.
AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue On an  basis non-controlling interests Groups capital resources.
AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH IFRS to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control are measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest The financial statements of IG Group Holdings plc the Company comprises the power to govern the financial and operating proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
The Group has The Groups regulatory capital resources management objective and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities, elected to apply the proportionate share of the acquirees net is to ensure that the Group complies with the regulatory capital 31 May 2012 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting assets methodology to the acquisition completed during the year.
resources requirement set by the FSA and other global regulators on 17 July 2012, and the statements of financial position signed rights, currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights in jurisdictions in which the Groups entities operate.
on the Boards behalf by Tim Howkins and Christopher Hill.
or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as IG Group Holdings plc is a public limited company incorporated of the subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases The Groups capital management policy aims to maximise returns and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary financial statements are prepared for the same reporting year from non-controlling interests, the dierence between any on equity while maintaining a strong capital position, to enable shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying the Group to take advantage of growth opportunities, whether policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions between value of the non-controlling interest is recorded in equity.
The Group and Company financial statements have been organic or by acquisition.
The Group does not seek to generate Group entities, including unrealised profits arising from them, are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting higher returns on equity by introducing leverage through, for eliminated on consolidation.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling shareholder in a Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, and example, the use of long-term debt finance.
consolidated subsidiarys equity may exceed the non-controlling International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities interest in the subsidiarys equity.
The excess, and any further IFRIC interpretations as they apply to the financial statements of The Groups 2011 ICAAP was approved by the Board in January of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of losses applicable to the non-controlling shareholder, are allocated the Group and of the Company for the year ended 31 May 2012, 2012.
There have been no capital requirement breaches during the acquisition.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value against the majority interest, except to the extent that the nonand applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies financial year.
The Group also regularly undertakes three-year stress of consideration paid including an estimate of any contingent or controlling shareholder has a binding obligation and is able to Act 2006.
The Group and Company financial statements have and scenario testing of its main financial and operational risks to deferred consideration.
Contingent or deferred consideration is make an additional investment to cover the losses.
If the subsidiary been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied project its future capital and liquidity adequacy requirements.
re-measured at each statement of financial position date, with subsequently reports profits, such profits are allocated to the by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities including periodic changes to the estimated liability recognised in the majority interests until the non-controlling shareholders share of derivatives at fair value through profit and loss.
The Groups Pillar 3 Disclosures are published on its website consolidated income statement.
Acquisition-related costs are losses previously absorbed by the majority has been recovered.
com, and these provide additional information on expensed as incurred.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and the the Groups enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework and the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired is recognised Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss Company are set out in note 40. its management of regulatory capital on a consolidated and solo as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group, and is entity basis.
values of the identiable net assets acquired discount on acquisition presented within equity in the consolidated statement of financial 40.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES is credited to the profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
position, separately from parent shareholders equity.
Basis of preparation Capital resources The accounting policies which follow have been applied in The Group had significant surplus regulatory capital resources The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the Foreign currencies preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2012. over the regulatory capital resources requirement throughout the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the The functional currency of each company in the Group is eective date of acquisition or up to the eective date of disposal, year.
An analysis of the Groups consolidated capital resources and As permitted by Section 408 1 b, 4 of the Companies Act 2006, that of the country of incorporation as disclosed in note 17 capital resources requirement is provided in the Operating and the individual income statement of IG Group Holdings plc the as appropriate.
as this is consistent with the primary economic environment Financial Review.
Company has not been presented in these financial statements.
in which the entity operates.
The Groups most significant The amount of profit after taxation for the financial year dealt with Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial functional currency is sterling.
Transactions in other currencies The following table summarises the Groups capital adequacy on in the financial statements of IG Group Holdings plc is 127,932,000 statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying spot a consolidated basis: 2011: 122,278,000.
A statement of comprehensive income for into line with those used by other members of the Group.
exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At IG Group Holdings plc has also not been presented in these each statement of financial position date, monetary assets and m 2012 2011 financial statements.
No items of other comprehensive income Non-controlling interests liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at Total Tier 1 capital 448.7 380.1 arose in the year 2011: nil.
Where the Group and a non-controlling shareholder enter into a the functional currency rate of exchange prevailing on the same Less intangible assets 115.4 115.3 forward contract symmetrical put and call options under which date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value Less investment in own shares 1.5 1.2 The Group and Company financial statements are presented in the Group is required to purchase the non-controlling interest that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds Total capital resources CR 331.8 263.6 for its fair value formulae-based valuation, at the forward date, rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
the Group continues to recognise the non-controlling interest at Gains and losses arising on translation are taken to the income Capital resources requirement CRR 100.4 89.6 the proportionate share of the acquirees identiable net assets, statement, except for exchange dierences arising on monetary Going concern Surplus 231.4 174.0 until expiry of the arrangement.
The forward liability is also assets and liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment The Directors have prepared the financial statements on a going recognised for managements best estimate of the present value in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the CR expressed as a % of CRR 330.5% 294.2% concern basis, which requires the Directors to have a reasonable of the redemption amount with a corresponding entry in equity.
disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in The accretion of the discount on the liability is recognised as a in profit or loss.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
finance charge in the consolidated income statement.
The liability 138 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 139
