Notes to the onancial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 17.
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES continued 18 b Impairments in the year ended 31 May 2011 17 a Acquisition of the client list and business of Ideal CFD Financial Services Pty Limited Goodwill and customer relationships - Japan In the year ended 31 May 2011, the Group completed the acquisition of the client list and business of Ideal CFD Financial Services Pty An impairment review of the goodwill and customer relationships associated with the Japanese business was performed as at Limited Ideal, a South African based introductory broker of the Group, for 4.5 million.
Consideration comprised 1.6 million paid in cash 30 November 2010, triggered by regulatory change in the Japanese market.
The estimated recoverable amount of the Japanese business and 2.9 million payable on exercise of symmetrical put and call options over 20% of IG Markets South Africa Limited IGSA, a subsidiary was based upon value-in-use, calculated as the total of the present value of projected five-year future cash ows and a terminal value.
of the Group that transferred to the vendor of Ideal on completion.
Following completion of a fair value exercise, a client list of 2.7 million and goodwill of 1.8 million were recognised in the Group statement of financial position.
The first of several regulatory restrictions on leverage for forex products came into force in August 2010, and had an adverse impact on client activity levels and revenue.
At 30 November 2010, further leverage restrictions were announced, and these became eective in Subsequent to the initial acquisition, the Group acquired an additional 10% of IGSA for 1.2 million: this had no impact on the estimated January 2011 and August 2011 for equity indices and forex respectively.
These restrictions were expected to have a significant impact on value of the total consideration or the goodwill associated with the acquisition.
Following this further acquisition the Group has a call option the future revenues of the Japanese business.
Accordingly, client recruitment rates and average revenue per client assumptions, utilised in and the vendor a put option over the remaining 10% of IGSA.
The present value of the forecast redemption amount is recorded under other the value-in-use calculation for the Japanese business, were lowered consistent with the leverage impact experienced in the period.
payables as a liability in the Group statement of financial position.
These options are exercisable in January 2013, based on a multiple of eight times average pro forma annual post-tax profits of IGSA over the period from 1 September 2010 to 30 November 2012.
The net book values of the goodwill and customer relationships 123.0 million and 20.1 million respectively associated with the Groups Japanese business were fully impaired as a result.
IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL 18 a Analysis of goodwill The impairment charges discussed above and the associated reduction in the deferred tax liability of 8.5 million were disclosed in the Goodwill has been allocated to the following cash-generating units CGUs for impairment-testing purposes: Group income statement in the column certain items, consistent with the Groups established accounting policy and presentation.
Group 2011 Goodwill - Sport 2012 Goodwill associated with the Sport CGU of 5.25 million was impaired to nil in the year ended 31 May 2011.
000 000 UK 100,012 100,012 18 c Impairment testing at year-end Australia 934 934 The goodwill associated with the UK, Australian, US and South African CGUs has been subject to an impairment test at 31 May 2012 US 4,931 4,618 as set out in the following disclosures.
South Africa 1,588 1,864 107,465 107,428 Methodology utilised in the impairment testing For the purposes of impairment testing of goodwill, the carrying amount of each CGU including goodwill is compared to the Goodwill arose in the UK CGU on the purchase of IG Group plc by IG Group Holdings plc on 5 September 2003, and was previously estimated recoverable amount of each CGU and any deficits are provided.
The carrying amount of a CGU includes only those assets allocated according to the CGU profitability Financial and Sport at that date.
Goodwill in the Australian CGU arose on the acquisition of that can be attributed directly, or allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis.
the non-controlling interest in IG Australia in the year ended 31 May 2006.
Goodwill arising on the acquisitions of each of North American Derivatives Exchange Inc. and Ideal CFDs has been allocated to the separate US and South African CGUs respectively.
The estimated recoverable amount of each CGU is based upon value-in-use, calculated as the total of the present value of projected five-year future cash ows and a terminal value.
Key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations The calculation of value-in-use for the CGUs is most sensitive to the following assumptions: Client recruitment and retention rates Average revenue per client Forecast marketing spend Operating cost growth rates The discount rate The long-term growth rate used for the terminal value calculation Projected future cash ows for each CGU were based upon the Board-approved budget and a further three-year revenue plan which reects past experience as well as future expected trends.
In order to support the three-year revenue plan, the marketing and other operating costs were forecast from the Board-approved budget using subsequent growth rates.
This methodology is consistent with that used for the 31 May 2011 year-end impairment review.
The revenue growth rates assumed are consistent with the long-term growth rates of the Groups businesses measured over a five-year period.
The cash ows for the US and South African CGUs were translated into sterling using year-end exchange rates.
112 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 113
