Notes to the onancial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 37.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Basis of consolidation is re-measured to the final redemption amount with any periodic Capital management On 17 July 2012, Andrew MacKay, Director of Corporate Strategy, The Group financial statements consolidate the financial changes to the estimated liability recognised in the consolidated The Group is supervised on a consolidated basis by the UKs announced his decision to step down from the Board with eect statements of IG Group Holdings plc and the entities it controls income statement.
On expiry of the forward contract the liability Financial Services Authority FSA.
The Groups operations in from 31 July 2012, as noted in the Chairmans statement and Chief its subsidiaries, made up to the reporting date, as listed in note 17. is eliminated as paid and any dierence in the value of the nonAustralia, Japan, Singapore, South Africa and the United States Executives review.
controlling interest to the exercise price deducted from equity.
Individual capital requirements in these Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, jurisdictions are taken into account when managing the 39.
AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue On an  basis non-controlling interests Groups capital resources.
AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH IFRS to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control are measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest The financial statements of IG Group Holdings plc the Company comprises the power to govern the financial and operating proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
The Group has The Groups regulatory capital resources management objective and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities, elected to apply the proportionate share of the acquirees net is to ensure that the Group complies with the regulatory capital 31 May 2012 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting assets methodology to the acquisition completed during the year.
resources requirement set by the FSA and other global regulators on 17 July 2012, and the statements of financial position signed rights, currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights in jurisdictions in which the Groups entities operate.
on the Boards behalf by Tim Howkins and Christopher Hill.
or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as IG Group Holdings plc is a public limited company incorporated of the subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases The Groups capital management policy aims to maximise returns and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary financial statements are prepared for the same reporting year from non-controlling interests, the dierence between any on equity while maintaining a strong capital position, to enable shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying the Group to take advantage of growth opportunities, whether policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions between value of the non-controlling interest is recorded in equity.
The Group and Company financial statements have been organic or by acquisition.
The Group does not seek to generate Group entities, including unrealised profits arising from them, are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting higher returns on equity by introducing leverage through, for eliminated on consolidation.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling shareholder in a Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, and example, the use of long-term debt finance.
consolidated subsidiarys equity may exceed the non-controlling International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities interest in the subsidiarys equity.
The excess, and any further IFRIC interpretations as they apply to the financial statements of The Groups 2011 ICAAP was approved by the Board in January of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of losses applicable to the non-controlling shareholder, are allocated the Group and of the Company for the year ended 31 May 2012, 2012.
There have been no capital requirement breaches during the acquisition.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value against the majority interest, except to the extent that the nonand applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies financial year.
The Group also regularly undertakes three-year stress of consideration paid including an estimate of any contingent or controlling shareholder has a binding obligation and is able to Act 2006.
The Group and Company financial statements have and scenario testing of its main financial and operational risks to deferred consideration.
Contingent or deferred consideration is make an additional investment to cover the losses.
If the subsidiary been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied project its future capital and liquidity adequacy requirements.
re-measured at each statement of financial position date, with subsequently reports profits, such profits are allocated to the by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities including periodic changes to the estimated liability recognised in the majority interests until the non-controlling shareholders share of derivatives at fair value through profit and loss.
The Groups Pillar 3 Disclosures are published on its website consolidated income statement.
Acquisition-related costs are losses previously absorbed by the majority has been recovered.
com, and these provide additional information on expensed as incurred.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and the the Groups enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework and the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired is recognised Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss Company are set out in note 40. its management of regulatory capital on a consolidated and solo as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group, and is entity basis.
values of the identiable net assets acquired discount on acquisition presented within equity in the consolidated statement of financial 40.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES is credited to the profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
position, separately from parent shareholders equity.
Basis of preparation Capital resources The accounting policies which follow have been applied in The Group had significant surplus regulatory capital resources The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the Foreign currencies preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2012. over the regulatory capital resources requirement throughout the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the The functional currency of each company in the Group is eective date of acquisition or up to the eective date of disposal, year.
An analysis of the Groups consolidated capital resources and As permitted by Section 408 1 b, 4 of the Companies Act 2006, that of the country of incorporation as disclosed in note 17 capital resources requirement is provided in the Operating and the individual income statement of IG Group Holdings plc the as appropriate.
as this is consistent with the primary economic environment Financial Review.
Company has not been presented in these financial statements.
in which the entity operates.
The Groups most significant The amount of profit after taxation for the financial year dealt with Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial functional currency is sterling.
Transactions in other currencies The following table summarises the Groups capital adequacy on in the financial statements of IG Group Holdings plc is 127,932,000 statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying spot a consolidated basis: 2011: 122,278,000.
A statement of comprehensive income for into line with those used by other members of the Group.
exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At IG Group Holdings plc has also not been presented in these each statement of financial position date, monetary assets and m 2012 2011 financial statements.
No items of other comprehensive income Non-controlling interests liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at Total Tier 1 capital 448.7 380.1 arose in the year 2011: nil.
Where the Group and a non-controlling shareholder enter into a the functional currency rate of exchange prevailing on the same Less intangible assets 115.4 115.3 forward contract symmetrical put and call options under which date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value Less investment in own shares 1.5 1.2 The Group and Company financial statements are presented in the Group is required to purchase the non-controlling interest that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds Total capital resources CR 331.8 263.6 for its fair value formulae-based valuation, at the forward date, rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
the Group continues to recognise the non-controlling interest at Gains and losses arising on translation are taken to the income Capital resources requirement CRR 100.4 89.6 the proportionate share of the acquirees identiable net assets, statement, except for exchange dierences arising on monetary Going concern Surplus 231.4 174.0 until expiry of the arrangement.
The forward liability is also assets and liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment The Directors have prepared the financial statements on a going recognised for managements best estimate of the present value in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the CR expressed as a % of CRR 330.5% 294.2% concern basis, which requires the Directors to have a reasonable of the redemption amount with a corresponding entry in equity.
disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in The accretion of the discount on the liability is recognised as a in profit or loss.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
finance charge in the consolidated income statement.
The liability 138 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 139 Notes to the onancial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 40.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued assets that generates cash inows that are largely independent of Intangible assets with a nite life are amortised over their Investments in subsidiaries On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas the cash inows from other assets or groups of assets.
expected useful lives, as follows: Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less accumulated operations are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase impairment losses.
on the statement of financial position date.
Any excess of the cost of the business combination over Development costs - straight-line basis over 3 years items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identiable assets, Software and licences - straight-line basis over the contract Operating leases Exchange dierences arising, if any, are classied as equity and liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the statement term of up to 5 years Leases are classied as operating leases where the lessor retains taken directly to a translation reserve.
Such translation dierences of financial position as goodwill and is not amortised.
To the Trade names - sum of digits method over 2 years substantially all the risks and benets of ownership of the asset.
are recognised as income or as expense in the period in which extent that the net fair value of the acquired entitys identiable Client lists and - sum of digits method over 3 to 5 years Lease payments under an operating lease are recognised as the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost customer relationships an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, unless arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets of the investment, a gain is recognised immediately in the income another systematic basis is more representative of the time and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the statement.
Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment pattern of the users benefit.
accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any carrying value may not be recoverable.
In addition, the carrying Financial instruments Property, plant and equipment accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being value of capitalised development expenditure is reviewed for The Group determines the classication of its financial Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less reviewed for impairment, at least annually and whenever events impairment annually before being brought into use.
instruments at initial recognition in accordance with the accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may categories outlined below, and re-evaluates this designation Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value be impaired.
Impairment of assets at each financial year-end.
When financial instruments are of any other consideration given to acquire the asset, and At least annually, or when impairment testing is required, the recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Directors review the carrying amounts of the Groups tangible the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets and operating as intended.
related cash-generating units monitored by management, usually and intangible assets to determine whether there is any financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, directly at business segment level or statutory company level, as the case indication that those assets have suered an impairment loss.
Financial instruments are disclosed Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment may be.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset in note 35 to the financial statements.
at rates calculated to write o the cost, less estimated residual unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment value based upon estimated useful lives.
Estimated residual value impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Where the asset does not generate cash ows that Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through and useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis, and residual are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the profit or loss values are based on prices prevailing at the statement of financial The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the Financial assets and financial liabilities classied as held for position date.
Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis over unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on asset belongs.
trading, or designated as such on inception, are included in this the expected useful lives as follows: disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it.
category and relate to the financial derivative open positions The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling included in trade receivables due from brokers and trade Leasehold improvements - over the lease term Intangible assets costs and value-in-use.
In assessing value-in-use, the estimated payables due to clients, as shown in the statement of financial of up to 15 years Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation future cash ows are discounted to their present values position and related notes.
Financial instruments are classied as Oce equipment, xtures and ttings - over 5 years and accumulated impairment losses.
This rate reects current market held for trading if they are expected to settle in the short-term.
Computer and other equipment - over 2, 3 or 5 years assessments of the time value of money, as well as the risks The Group uses derivative financial instruments, in order to hedge Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried specic to the asset for which the estimates of future cash ows derivative exposures arising from open client positions, which are The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed initially at cost.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business have not been adjusted.
also classied as held for trading.
for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate combination, such as a trade name or customer relationship, is the carrying value may not be recoverable, and are written down recognised at fair value outside goodwill if the asset is separable If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than All financial instruments at fair value through the profit and loss immediately to their recoverable amount.
or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value, to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised as an with gains or losses recognised in revenue in the consolidated can be measured reliably.
Expenditure on internally-developed An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon intangible assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the expense immediately.
disposal or when no future economic benets are expected to income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Development arise from the continued use of the asset.
The gain or loss arising on expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after all the An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there derecognition of an asset is determined as the dierence between following criteria are met: is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, and is no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
The projects technical feasibility and commercial viability can the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised be demonstrated impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the Goodwill The availability of adequate technical and financial resources and estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the an intention to complete the project have been confirmed the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case, the cost of acquisition fair value of consideration paid over the The correlation between development costs and future carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
Groups interest in the fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities revenue has been established That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that and contingent liabilities of a business at the date of acquisition.
would have been determined, had no impairment loss been Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is allocated to Following initial recognition, the historic cost model is applied, recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment cash-generating units for purposes of impairment testing.
with intangible assets being carried at cost less accumulated loss is recognised as income immediately, although impairment Cash-generating units represent the smallest identiable group of amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
losses relating to goodwill may not be reversed.
140 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 141 Notes to the onancial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 40.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued recognition of a new liability, such that the dierence in the facilities.
Segregated client money accounts hold statutory trust in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a Determination of fair value respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees status, restricting the Groups ability to control the monies, and transaction that aects neither the tax profit nor the Financial instruments arising from open client positions and the incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
accordingly such amounts and are not held on the Groups accounting profit.
Groups hedging positions are stated at fair value and disclosed statement of financial position.
according to the valuation hierarchy required by IFRS 7.
Fair Trade receivables and trade payables Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary values are predominantly determined by reference to third party Assets or liabilities resulting from profit or losses on open The amount of segregated client funds held at year-end is dierences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, market values bid prices for long positions and oer prices for positions are carried at fair value.
Amounts due from or to clients disclosed in note 20 to the financial statements.
The return except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the short positions as detailed below: and brokers are netted against other assets and liabilities with received on managing segregated client funds is included within temporary dierence and it is probable that the temporary the same counterparty, where a legally-enforceable netting net operating income.
dierence will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
L evel 1: valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active agreement is in place, and where it is anticipated that assets and markets for identical financial instruments.
liabilities will be netted on settlement.
Title transfer funds are held by the Group under a Title Transfer The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Collateral Arrangement TTCA, by which a client agrees that full statement of financial position date, and reduced to the extent L evel 2: valued using techniques where a price is derived Trade receivables represent balances with counterparties and ownership of such monies is unconditionally transferred to the that it is no longer probable that sucient taxable profits will be based signicantly on observable market data.
For example, clients where the combination of cash held on account and Group.
Title transfers funds are accordingly held on the Groups available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
where an active market for an identical financial instrument to the valuation of financial derivative open positions result in statement of financial position, with a corresponding liability to the product oered by the Group to its clients or used by the an amount due to the Group.
A provision for impairment is clients within trade payables.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an Group to hedge its market risk does not exist.
established where there is objective evidence of undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply non-collectability.
Reference is made to an aged prole of debt Other payables when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based L evel 3: valued using techniques that incorporate information and the provision is subject to management review.
Non-trading financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the other than observable market data that is significant to the and carried at amortised cost using the eective interest rate statement of financial position date.
Deferred tax is charged or overall valuation.
Trade payables represent balances with counterparties and method, if the time value of money is significant.
credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items clients where the combination of cash held on account and credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities the valuation of financial derivative open positions results in an Provisions tax is also dealt with in equity.
A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the amount payable by the Group.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
or constructive obligation as a result of past events, when it is Deferred tax assets and liabilities are oset when they relate Prepayments and other receivables probable that an outow of resources will be required to settle the to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Financial assets Prepayments and other receivables are non-derivative financial obligation, and when the amount can be reliably estimated.
Where Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a A financial asset is derecognised where the rights to receive cash assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted material, provisions are discounted and recognised at the present net basis.
ows from the asset have expired, or the Group retains the right to in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not value of expenditures expected to settle the obligation, with the receive cash ows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation been designated as fair value through profit and loss.
Such assets unwind of the discount recognised as an interest expense.
Classification of shares as debt or equity to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a are carried at amortised cost using the eective interest method, When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial pass-through arrangement, or the Group has transferred its rights if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are Taxation liability of the Group is presented as a liability in the statement of to receive cash ows from the asset and either a has transferred recognised in income when the receivables are derecognised or The income tax expense represents the sum of tax currently financial position, measured initially at fair value net of transaction substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither impaired, and when economic benefit is consumed.
A provision payable and movements in deferred tax.
costs, and thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished on transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the for impairment is established where there is objective evidence of conversion or redemption.
The corresponding dividends relating asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
to the liability component are charged as interest expense in the Taxable profit diers from net profit, as reported in the income income statement.
Where the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash Cash and cash equivalents statement, because it excludes items of income or expense that ows from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits which may are taxable or deductible in other periods, and it further excludes Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred be accessed without penalty.
Cash equivalents comprise shortitems that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments control of the asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of term highly-liquid investments that are readily convertible into for current tax is calculated using tax rates in the respective are classied according to the substance of the contractual the Groups continuing involvement in the asset.
Continuing known amounts of cash, and which are subject to an insignicant jurisdictions that have been enacted or substantively enacted by arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the consolidated the statement of financial position date.
that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying cash ow statement, net cash and cash equivalents consist of deducting all of its liabilities.
amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration cash and cash equivalents as dened above, net of outstanding Deferred tax is accounted for on all temporary dierences that the Group could be required to repay.
between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the Own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the Shares held in trust by the Company for the purposes of Financial liabilities The Group holds money on behalf of clients in accordance with computation of taxable profit.
In principle, deferred tax liabilities employee share schemes are classied as a deduction from A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the the client money rules of the UK Financial Services Authority are recognised for all temporary dierences, and deferred tax shareholders equity and are recognised at cost.
Consideration liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing FSA and other regulatory bodies.
Such monies are classied assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on as either cash and cash equivalents or segregated client funds profits will be available, against which deductible temporary with any dierence between the proceeds from the sale and the substantially dierent terms, or the terms of an existing liability in accordance with the relevant regulatory requirements.
Such assets and liabilities are not original cost being taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is are substantially modied, such an exchange or modication Segregated client funds comprise individual client funds recognised if the temporary dierence arises from goodwill or recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the held in segregated client money accounts or money market negative goodwill or from the initial recognition other than or cancellation of equity shares.
142 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 143 Notes to the onancial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 40.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued that they merit separate presentation in order to aid a readers will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since The following new standards and interpretations are also eective Revenue recognition understanding of the Groups financial performance.
the previous statement of financial position date is recognised in for accounting periods beginning 1 June 2011 but have not had a Trading revenue represents gains and losses arising on client the income statement as part of administrative expenses, with a material impact on the presentation of, nor the results or financial trading activity, primarily in financial spread betting, contracts Finance costs and interest expense on segregated corresponding entry in equity.
position of, the Group: for dierence, or binary bets and the transactions undertaken to client funds The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments hedge the risk associated with client trading activity.
Open client Finance costs and interest expense on segregated client funds IFRIC 14 prepayments of a minimum funding requirement to employees of the subsidiary undertakings in the Group is and hedging positions are carried at fair market value, and gains are accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal amount eective January 2011 treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of the employee and losses arising on this valuation are recognised in revenue as charged at the eective interest rate applicable.
The eective IFRIC 19 extinguishing financial liabilities with equity services received is recognised over the vesting period as an well as gains and losses realised on positions that have closed.
The interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the future expected instruments increase in the investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a policies and methodologies associated with the determination of cash ows to the carrying amount of the liability.
Issue costs are corresponding credit to equity.
fair value have been discussed above under Financial Instruments.
included in the determination of the eective interest rates.
Other new standards, amendments and interpretations, including those listed below, have been issued but are not eective for Segment information Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benets Interest expense on segregated client funds is disclosed within accounting periods beginning 1 June 2011 and have not been The Groups segmental information is disclosed in a manner associated with the transaction will ow to the Group and the operating profit, as this is consistent with the nature of the early adopted by the Group: consistent with the basis of internal reports regarding revenue can be reliably measured.
components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the IFRS 9 financial instruments, issued in November 2009, Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM in order to assess Trading revenue is reported gross of introducing broker Retirement benefit costs amended 2010.
This standard is the first step in the process the performance and to allocate resources to those operating commission, as these amounts are directly linked to trading The Group operates dened contribution schemes.
Contributions to replace IAS 39, financial instruments, recognition and segments.
The Group has therefore determined its operating revenue.
Introductory broker commission, along with betting are charged to the income statement as and when they become measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for segments based on the management information received on a duties paid, are disclosed as an expense in arriving at net payable according to the rules of the schemes.
classifying and measuring financial assets.
The standard is not regular basis by the Executive Directors of the IG Group Holdings operating income.
applicable until 1 January 2015 and has not yet been endorsed plc Board, as they are considered to be the CODM.
Operating Dividends by the EU.
The Group has yet to assess the impact of IFRS 9 segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds required Finance revenue and interest income on segregated client funds Dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is recognised by IFRS 8 are aggregated.
IFRS 13 fair value measurement eective 1 January 2013 is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal client as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in funds outstanding and at the eective interest rate applicable.
which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
The Group has also early-adopted the IFRS Improvements IFRS 10 consolidated financial statements eective The eective interest rate is the rate which exactly discounts Standard issued in April 2009 that provides an amendment to 1 January 2013 estimated future cash receipts over the expected life of the Income statement presentation - IFRS 8, such that segment assets are not required to be disclosed financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Interest income discontinued operations IFRS 11 joint arrangements eective 1 January 2013 as segment assets and are not reported to the CODM.
on segregated client funds is disclosed within revenue, and Discontinued operations consist of a single major line of business IFRS 12 disclosure of interests in other entities eective therefore operating profit, as this is consistent with the nature of or a geographical area that have either been closed or sold during The Group envisages that the reportable segments may change 1 January 2013 the Groups operations.
the period or are classied as held for sale at the year-end.
as overseas businesses move towards operational maturity, breaking through the quantitative thresholds of IFRS 8.
The IAS 19 revised 2011 employee benets eective 1 January Net trading revenue, disclosed on the face of the consolidated In the year ended 31 May 2012, the Groups Sport business has segments are therefore subject to annual review and the 2013 income statement and in the notes to the financial statements, been disclosed as a discontinued operation and the comparative comparatives restated to reect any reclassications within the represents trading revenue from financial instruments carried balances restated accordingly.
The financial performance and cash segmental reporting.
Amendment to IFRS 7 financial instruments: disclosures at fair value through profit and loss, and has been disclosed net ows of discontinued operations are separately reported in note 12. eective 1 July 2013 of introductory broker commission as this is consistent with Changes in accounting policies IAS 32 financial instruments: presentation eective the management information received by the Chief Operating Share-based payments The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of financial 1 January 2014 Decision Maker.
The Company operates three employee share plans: a share statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation incentive plan, a value-sharing plan, and a long-term incentive of the Groups Annual Report for the year ended 31 May 2011, Amendment to IAS 12 income taxes on deferred tax assets or Dividends receivable are recognised when the shareholders right plan the last award of which was made in 2010, all of which other than the presentational changes referred to in note 1. liabilities on investment property eective 1 January 2012 to receive the payment is established.
The costs of these awards are measured at fair value calculated using option pricing models refer to the New and amended standards adopted by the Group Amendment to IAS 1 presentation of financial statements on Operating profit share based payment note for additional detail of the models The Group has adopted the following new or amended standards OCI eective 1 July 2012 Operating profit is the sum of the results of the principal activities and assumptions used for the various award schemes and are as of 1 June 2011: IAS 28 investment in associates and joint ventures eective 1 of the Group after charging depreciation of property, plant and recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straightAmendment to IFRS 7 revised financial instruments: January 2013 equipment, amortisation of intangible assets, operating lease line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys disclosures.
The amended standard introduces additional rentals on land and buildings, foreign exchange dierences, estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Amendment to IFRS 7 disclosures - osetting financial assets disclosures in relation to the transfers of financial assets profit or loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and other and financial liabilities eective 1 January 2013 administrative expenses.
At each statement of financial position date before vesting, IAS 24 revised related party disclosures, issued in November the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent 2009 eective 1 January 2011.
This standard claries The new standards and amendments listed above are not Exceptional items to which the vesting period has expired and managements the denition of a related party and includes an explicit expected to have a material impact on the Group or Company.
Exceptional items are those items of income and expense best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market requirement to disclose commitments involving related parties that the Group considers are material and or of such a nature conditions determining the number of equity instruments that 144 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 145
