Corporate governance: Statement of Directors responsibilities CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Health and safety Operations and environment The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the The Group believes that its employees are one of its most As a business which conducts nearly all of its client trades the Directors remuneration report and the Group and Company Company and the Group, and hence for taking reasonable steps valuable assets, and therefore is committed to providing each online, we do not see ourselves as a significant emitter of financial statements in accordance with applicable United for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
employee with a safe and healthy working environment.
However, we do understand Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting and safety is an integral part of our business, and by providing key that our operations have an impact on the environment and Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity members of sta with the relevant external training and all other take steps to manage this.
Legislation in the United Kingdom sta with the relevant in-house training, this ensures compliance The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for governing the preparation and dissemination of financial with all statutory health and safety requirements.
Details of all Energy consumption and carbon management each financial year which present fairly the financial position of statements may dier from legislation in other jurisdictions.
incidents, no matter how small, are held on the HR database.
We have taken steps to minimise the impact of our oces on the the Company and of the Group, and the financial performance of There were no reportable incidents in the year.
These include the installation of automated sensor the Group, and cash ows of the Group and of the Company for Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are provided lighting and air conditioning, both of which minimise energy that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors in the Corporate Governance Report, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Wellbeing usage when oces are not in use.
are required to: We are fully committed to our employees health and wellbeing, and the benets provided to all employees include private With the encouragement of employees, we have also improved Select suitable accounting policies and then apply The Group financial statements, which have been prepared medical cover, permanent health insurance and life assurance.
our recycling facilities, including IT equipment.
them consistently in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true Additionally, we reimburse 50% of the costs of employees annual Make judgements and accounting estimates that are and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and gym subscriptions to a specified amount for all UK, Australian At our London oces we have started the ISO 14001 process, reasonable and prudent profit of the Group and European employees.
We further show commitment to the which will help us to assess, minimise and continually improve State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European The business review and the Directors statutory report health of our sta by providing free fruit on a daily basis and how our operations negatively aect the environment Union have been followed, subject to any material departures contained in the Annual Report include a fair review of the oering u vaccinations to all UK sta.
and comply with applicable laws, regulations, and other disclosed and explained in the financial statements development and performance of the business and the  requirements.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis position of the Group, together with a description of the The Group encourages cycling, through providing savings on unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will principal risks and uncertainties that it faces bikes under the government-backed cycle to work initiative, and Actions for the coming year continue in business oers free-of-charge bicycle parking in our London oce.
As part of our commitment to employee welfare, we will engage By order of the Board with our employees through completing a further annual The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The Group encourages involvement with team sport and there employee survey and use the development plans from the results records that are sucient to show and explain the Companys are IG football, netball and rugby teams.
We also supported the of the last survey to ensure that we deal with those issues that arise.
transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Six in the City, a competition run by Chance to Shine, a charity the financial position of the Company and the Group, and enable Christopher Hill supporting education through cricket.
By order of the Board them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Chief Financial Ocer remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, 17 July 2012 During the year, we introduced a condential employee as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the assistance programme which provides a 24 7 impartial telephone IAS Regulation.
counselling service to all our European oce employees and their Christopher Hill immediate families, oering impartial advice on all matters from Chief Financial Ocer housing to personal finance.
17 July 2012 80 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 81
