Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated financial statements CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT for the year ended 30 June 2012 2012 2011 Notes m m Continuing operations Revenue 2 6,791 6,597 Operating expense 3 5,548 5,524 Operating profit 1,243 1,073 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 15 39 34 Investment income 418 9 Finance costs 4 111 111 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment 5 9 Profit before tax 6 1,189 1,014 Taxation 8 283 256 Profit for the year from continuing operations 906 758 Discontinued operations Profit for the year from discontinued operations 9 52 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 906 810 Earnings per share from profit for the year in pence Basic Continuing operations 10 52.6p 43.5p Discontinued operations 10 3.0p Total 10 52.6p 46.5p Diluted Continuing operations 10 52.2p 43.0p Discontinued operations 10 2.9p Total 10 52.2p 45.9p The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated income statement.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME for the year ended 30 June 2012 2012 2011 m m Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 906 810 Other comprehensive income Amounts recognised directly in equity Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 2 8 Gain on revaluation of available-for-sale investments 859 Gain loss on cash flow hedges 99 130 Tax on cash flow hedges 23 36 86 43 Amounts reclassified and reported in the income statement Loss gain on cash flow hedges 29 42 Tax on cash flow hedges 7 11 Transfer to income statement on disposal of foreign operations 4 22 35 Other comprehensive income loss for the year net of tax 64 8 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 970 802 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 69 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET as at 30 June 2012 2012 2011 Notes m m Non-current assets Goodwill 12 956 944 Intangible assets 13 523 462 Property, plant and equipment 14 948 896 Investments in joint ventures and associates 15 156 151 Available-for-sale investments 16 228 215 Deferred tax assets 17 16 69 Trade and other receivables 19 17 13 Derivative financial assets 23 390 275 3,234 3,025 Current assets Inventories 18 456 375 Trade and other receivables 19 621 592 Short-term deposits 23 710 430 Cash and cash equivalents 23 464 921 Derivative financial assets 23 24 11 2,275 2,329 Total assets 5,509 5,354 Current liabilities Borrowings 22 8 8 Trade and other payables 20 1,855 1,675 Current tax liabilities 189 187 Provisions 21 43 21 Derivative financial liabilities 23 3 21 2,098 1,912 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 22 2,398 2,325 Trade and other payables 20 27 26 Provisions 21 12 9 Derivative financial liabilities 23 29 47 Deferred tax liabilities 17 1 2,467 2,407 Total liabilities 4,565 4,319 Share capital 25 837 876 Share premium 26 1,437 1,437 Reserves 26 1,330 1,278 Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 26 944 1,035 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 5,509 5,354 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated balance sheet.
These consolidated financial statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, registered number 2247735, have been approved by the Board of Directors on 25 July 2012 and were signed on its behalf by: Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 70 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT for the year ended 30 June 2012 2012 2011 Notes m m Continuing operations Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 27 1,737 1,569 Interest received 17 7 Taxation paid 254 219 Net cash from operating activities 1,500 1,357 Cash flows from investing activities Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 39 29 Net funding to joint ventures and associates 6 4 Proceeds on disposal of investments 32 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 228 197 Purchase of intangible assets 229 226 Purchase of subsidiaries net of cash and cash equivalents purchased 15 222 Purchase of available-for-sale investments 5 Increase in short-term deposits 280 30 Net cash used in investing activities 724 618 Cash flows from financing activities Repayment of obligations under finance leases 1 1 Proceeds from disposal of shares in Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP 10 32 Purchase of own shares for ESOP 161 90 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 546 Interest paid 125 124 Dividends paid to shareholders 410 353 Net cash used in financing activities 1,233 536 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations 457 203 Cash generated from discontinued operations 9 69 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 921 649 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 464 921 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated cash flow statement.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 71 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended 30 June 2012 Available Total Share Share ESOP Hedging for-sale Other Retained shareholders equity capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserves earnings m m m m m m m m At 1 July 2010 876 1,437 47 77 98 362 2,243 560 Profit for the year 810 810 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 8 8 Transfer to income statement on disposal of foreign operations 4 4 Revaluation of available-for-sale investments 59 59 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 88 88 Tax on items taken directly to equity 25 25 Total comprehensive income for the year 63 59 4 810 802 Share-based payment 60 70 10 Tax on items taken directly to equity 19 19 Purchase of non-controlling interest 3 3 Dividends 353 353 At 30 June 2011 876 1,437 107 14 157 358 1,700 1,035 Profit for the year 906 906 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 2 2 Revaluation of available-for-sale investments 8 8 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 70 70 Tax on items taken directly to equity 16 16 Total comprehensive income for the year 54 8 2 906 970 Share-based payment 5 80 85 Tax on items taken directly to equity 10 10 Share buy-back programme see note 26 : Purchase of own shares for cancellation 39 39 546 546 Financial liability for close period purchases 10 10 Dividends 410 410 At 30 June 2012 837 1,437 112 68 165 399 1,850 944 For a description of the nature and purpose of each equity reserve, see note 26.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement of changes in equity.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 72 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Accounting policies These consolidated financial statements include the Groups British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company is a share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates limited liability company incorporated in England and Wales, and joint ventures using the equity method, from the date and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK.
The consolidated that significant influence or joint control commences to the financial statements include the Company and its subsidiaries date that it ceases, based on present ownership interests and excluding the possible exercise of potential voting rights, less any together, the Group and its interests in associates and impairment losses see accounting policy j.
When the Groups jointly-controlled entities.
interest in an associate or joint venture has been reduced to nil a Statement of compliance because the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared associate or joint venture, the Group only provides for additional in accordance with International Financial Reporting losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, obligations to fund such losses, or where the Group has made the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the International payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Where Accounting Standard IAS Regulations.
In addition, the Group the disposal of an investment in an associate or joint venture is also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting considered to be highly probable, the investment ceases to be Standards Board IASB.
equity accounted and, instead, is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs b Basis of preparation to sell.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as set out in the Directors Report and d Goodwill on an historical cost basis, except for the remeasurement to fair Business combinations that have occurred since 1 July 2004, the value of financial instruments as described in the accounting date of transition to IFRS the Transition Date, are accounted policies below.
The Group has adopted the new accounting for by applying the purchase method of accounting.
Following pronouncements which became effective this year, none of this method, goodwill is initially recognised on consolidation, which had any significant impact on the Groups results or representing the difference between the fair value cost of the financial position.
business combination and the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed.
The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest to 30 June in each year.
In fiscal year 2012, this In respect of business combinations that occurred prior to the date was 1 July 2012, this being a 52 week year fiscal year 2011: Transition Date, goodwill has been included at the amounts 3 July 2011, 53 week year.
For convenience purposes, the Group recognised under the Groups UK Generally Accepted Accounting continues to date its consolidated financial statements as at Principles UK GAAP accounting policies on the Transition Date.
The Group has classified assets and liabilities as current On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the when they are expected to be realised in, or intended for sale or attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination consumption in, the normal operating cycle of the Group.
of profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to the Transition Date, which is not c Basis of consolidation reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent i.
Subsidiaries gain or loss on disposal.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses and to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as is tested, at least annually, for impairment, based on the to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included recoverable amounts of the cash generating unit to which in the consolidated financial statements of the Company from the goodwill has been allocated.
Any impairment identified the date control of the subsidiary commences until the date is recognised immediately in the income statement and is that control ceases.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised not subsequently reversed.
The carrying amount of goodwill gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intrain respect of associates and joint ventures is included in the group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated carrying amount of the investment in the associate or joint financial statements.
Goodwill is tested for impairment in line with accounting policy j below.
Associates and joint ventures Associates are entities where the Group has significant influence, e Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment PPE but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating i. Intangible assets policies of the entity.
Joint ventures are those entities which are Research expenditure is recognised in operating expense in the jointly controlled by the Group under a contractual agreement income statement as the expenditure is incurred.
Development with another party or parties.
expenditure relating to the application of research knowledge ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 73 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for 1.
Accounting policies continued their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets to plan or design new or substantially improved products for until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their sale or use within the business is recognised as an intangible intended use or sale.
asset from the point at which it is probable that the Group has the intention and ability to generate future economic benefits To the extent that the financing for a qualifying asset is part from the development expenditure, that the development is of the Groups general borrowings, the interest cost to be technically feasible and that the subsequent expenditure can capitalised is calculated based upon the weighted average be measured reliably.
Any other development expenditure is cost of borrowing to the Group excluding the interest on any recognised in operating expense as incurred.
borrowings specific to any qualifying assets.
This is then applied to the expenditures on the asset.
Other intangible assets, which are acquired by the Group separately or through a business combination, are initially stated All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the at cost or fair value, respectively, less accumulated amortisation period to which they relate.
and impairment losses, other than those that are classified as held for sale, which are stated at the lower of carrying amount f Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities and fair value less costs to sell.
The Group uses a number of derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest and foreign Amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is exchange rates.
available for use, and is charged to the income statement through operating expense on a straight-line basis over the intangible Derivatives are held at fair value from the date on which a assets estimated useful life, principally being a period between derivative contract is entered into.
Fair value is defined as the 1 and 25 years, unless the asset life is judged to be indefinite.
If amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability the useful life is indefinite or the asset is not yet available for settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length use, no amortisation is charged and an impairment test is carried transaction.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments out at least annually.
Other intangible assets are tested for is estimated with reference to the contracted value and the impairment in line with accounting policy j below.
appropriate market value prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Certain derivatives held by the Group which relate to ii.
Property, plant and equipment highly probable forecast transactions hedged items, which Owned PPE is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation meet qualifying criteria under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: and any impairment losses, see accounting policy j, other than Recognition and Measurement IAS 39, are designated as cash those items that are classified as held for sale, which are stated flow hedges or fair value hedges, and are subject to cash flow at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to hedge accounting or fair value hedge accounting respectively.
When an item of PPE comprises major components having Certain other derivatives held by the Group do not meet the different useful economic lives, the components are accounted qualifying criteria for recognition for accounting purposes as for as separate items of PPE.
hedges, despite this being their economic function.
Changes in the fair values of these derivatives are recognised immediately Assets held under finance leases, which confer rights and in the income statement.
The Group does not hold or issue obligations similar to those attached to owned assets, are derivatives for speculative purposes.
treated as PPE see accounting policy o. i. Derivatives that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting The cost of PPE, less estimated residual value, is depreciated in Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as operating expense on a straight-line basis over its estimated cash flow hedges cash flow hedging instruments are initially useful life.
Land, and assets that are not yet available for use, recognised in the hedging reserve.
In circumstances in which are not depreciated.
Principal useful economic lives used for this the derivative used is a currency option, only changes in the purpose are: intrinsic value of the option are designated under the cash flow Freehold buildings 25 to 40 years hedging relationship, with all other movements being recorded Equipment, furniture and fixtures 3 to 15 years immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in Assets under finance leases and Lesser of lease term and the the hedging reserve are subsequently recognised in the income leasehold improvements useful economic life of the asset statement in the periods in which the related hedged items are recognised in the income statement.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 74 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At inception, the effectiveness of the Groups cash flow hedges 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness and any relationship which is assessed through a comparison of the principal terms of the has effectiveness outside this range is deemed to be ineffective hedging instrument and the underlying hedged item.
The ongoing and hedge accounting is suspended.
effectiveness of the Groups cash flow hedges is assessed using iii.
Embedded derivatives the dollar-offset approach, with the expected cash flows of Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other hedging instruments being compared to the expected cash flows host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their of the hedged items.
This assessment is used to demonstrate risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the that each hedge relationship is expected to be highly effective host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair on inception, has been highly effective in the period and is value, with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income expected to continue to be highly effective in future periods.
Embedded derivatives are carried on the balance measurement of hedge ineffectiveness for the Groups hedging sheet at fair value from the inception of the host contract.
instruments is calculated using the hypothetical derivative Changes in fair value are recognised within the income statement method, with the fair values of the hedging instruments being during the period in which they arise.
compared to those of the hypothetical derivative that would result in the designated cash flow hedge achieving perfect hedge g Inventories effectiveness.
The excess of the cumulative change in the fair i.
Acquired and commissioned television programme inventories value of the actual hedging instrument compared to that of the Programme inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net hypothetical derivative is deemed to be hedge ineffectiveness, realisable value NRV, including, where applicable, estimated which is recognised in the income statement.
subscriber escalation payments, and net of the accumulated expense charged to the income statement to date.
The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness, in accordance with IAS 39, and any relationship which has Programming rights are included as inventories when the legally effectiveness outside this range is deemed to be ineffective and enforceable licence period commences and all of the following hedge accounting is suspended.
conditions have been met: a the cost of each programme is known or reasonably determinable: b the programme When a cash flow hedging instrument expires, is terminated or material has been accepted by the Group in accordance with is exercised, or if a hedge no longer meets the qualifying criteria the conditions of the rights, and c the programme is available for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in the for its first showing.
Prior to being included in inventories, the hedging reserve at that time remains in the hedging reserve programming rights are classified as television programme rights and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately not yet available for transmission and not recorded as inventories recognised in the income statement, provided that the on the Groups balance sheet and are instead disclosed as underlying transaction is still expected to occur.
When a forecast contractual commitments see note 28.
Payments made upon transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain receipt of commissioned and acquired programming, but in or loss that was reported in the hedging reserve is immediately advance of the legal right to broadcast the programmes, are recognised in the income statement and all future changes in the treated as prepayments.
fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments are immediately recognised in the income statement.
The cost of television programme inventories is recognised in the operating expense line of the income statement, primarily as ii.
Derivatives that qualify for fair value hedge accounting described below: The Group has designated certain derivatives as fair value hedges as defined under IAS 39.
Any changes in the fair value of the Sports 100% of the cost is recognised in the income statement derivatives are recognised immediately in the income statement.
on the first broadcast or, where the rights are for multiple The carrying values of the underlying hedged items are adjusted seasons or competitions, such rights are principally recognised on for the change in the fair value of the hedged risks, with the a straight-line basis across the seasons or competitions.
gains or losses recognised immediately in the income statement, offsetting the fair value movement on the derivative.
News 100% of the cost is recognised in the income statement on first broadcast.
Prospective effectiveness is assessed quarterly, through a comparison of the principal terms of the hedging instrument and Movies The cost is recognised in the income statement on a the underlying hedged item, including the likelihood of default straight-line basis over the period of broadcast rights.
The retrospective effectiveness of the Groups fair value hedges is calculated quarterly using the General entertainment The cost is recognised in the income cumulative dollar-offset approach, with movements in the fair statement based on the expected value of each planned value of the hedged item being compared to movements in the broadcast.
fair value of the hedging instrument.
The Group uses a range of ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 75 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 1.
Accounting policies continued price at the balance sheet date.
Any subsequent increase in the fair value of the available-for-sale investment above the impaired Where programme rights are surplus to the Groups value will be recognised within the available-for-sale reserve.
requirements, and no gain is anticipated through a disposal of the rights, or where the programming will not be broadcast Available-for-sale investments are included within non-current for any other reason, a write-down to the income statement is assets unless the carrying value is expected to be recovered made.
Any reversals of inventory write-downs are recognised as principally through sale rather than continuing use, in which reductions in operating expense.
case they are included within current assets.
On disposal, the difference between the carrying amount and the sum of the ii.
Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment are valued at consideration received and any cumulative gain or loss that had the lower of cost and NRV, the latter of which reflects the value previously been recognised directly in reserves is recognised in that the business expects to realise from the set-top boxes the income statement.
and related equipment in the hands of the customer, and are ii.
Trade and other receivables recognised through the operating expense line of the income Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets statement.
Any subsidy is expensed on enablement, which is with fixed or determinable payments and, where no stated the process of activating the viewing card during installation, interest rate is applicable, are measured at the original invoice so as to enable a viewer to view encrypted broadcast services, amount, if the effect of discounting is immaterial.
Where and effectively represents the completion of the installation discounting is material, trade and other receivables are measured process for new customers.
The amount recognised in the income at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
An statement is determined on a weighted average cost basis, in allowance account is maintained to reduce the carrying value accordance with IAS 2 Inventory.
of trade and other receivables for impairment losses identified iii.
Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale from objective evidence, with movements in the allowance Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale are account, either from increased impairment losses or reversals of valued at the lower of cost and NRV.
The cost of raw materials, impairment losses, being recognised in the income statement.
consumables and goods held for resale is recognised through the iii.
Cash and cash equivalents operating expense line of the income statement on a first in first Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank accounts, out basis.
deposits receivable on demand and deposits with maturity h Financial assets and liabilities dates of three months or less from the date of inception.
Bank Financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value overdrafts that are repayable on demand and which form an plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
At each balance integral part of the Groups cash management are also included as a component of cash and cash equivalents where offset sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any objective conditions are met.
evidence that any financial asset is impaired.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when iv.
Short-term deposits the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the This includes short-term deposits and commercial paper which financial asset or liability.
Financial assets are derecognised from have maturity dates of more than three months from inception.
the balance sheet when the Groups contractual rights to the cash These deposits are initially recognised at fair value, and then flows expire or the Group transfers substantially all the risks and carried at amortised cost through the income statement less any rewards of the financial asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised allowance for impairment losses.
from the Groups balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
v. Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are non-derivative financial liabilities i. Available-for-sale investments and are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest Equity investments intended to be held for an indefinite period method.
Trade and other payables with no stated interest rate are classified as available-for-sale investments.
They are are measured at the original invoice amount if the effect of carried at fair value, where this can be reliably measured, with discounting is immaterial.
movements in fair value recognised directly in the available-forsale reserve.
Where the fair value cannot be reliably measured, vi.
Borrowings the investment is carried at cost.
Borrowings are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including any premium payable on Any impairment losses in equity investments classified as settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted available-for-sale investments are recognised in the income for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the statement and are not reversible through the income statement, effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount and are determined with reference to the closing market share ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 76 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of the underlying instrument to which they relate, to the extent l ESOP reserve that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys own equity shares, the cost of those shares, including any i Transponder prepayments attributable transaction costs, is presented within the Payments made in respect of future satellite broadcast capacity ESOP reserve as a deduction in shareholders equity in the have been recorded as prepaid transponder costs.
payments are recognised in the income statement on a straightline basis over the term of the agreement.
m Revenue recognition Revenue, which excludes value added tax and transactions j Impairment between Group companies, represents the gross inflow of At each balance sheet date, in accordance with IAS 36 economic benefit from Skys operating activities.
The Groups Impairment of Assets, the Group reviews the carrying amounts main sources of revenue are recognised as follows: of all its assets excluding inventories see accounting policy g, non-current assets classified as held for sale, financial assets Retail subscription revenue, including subscriptions for TV see accounting policy h and deferred taxation see accounting services, Sky Broadband and Sky Talk services, is recognised policy p to determine whether there is any indication that any of as the goods or services are provided, net of any discount those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
Pay-per-view revenue is recognised when the event or movie is viewed.
An impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit Wholesale revenue is recognised as the services are provided exceeds its recoverable amount.
An impairment of an investment to cable and other retailers and is based on the number of in a joint venture or associate is recognised within the share subscribers taking the Sky channels, as reported to the Group of profit from joint ventures and associates.
The recoverable by the cable and other retailers, and the applicable rate card amount is the greater of net selling price, defined as the fair or contract.
value less costs to sell, and value in use.
In assessing value in Advertising sales revenue is recognised when the advertising use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their is broadcast.
Revenue generated from airtime sales, where present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current Sky acts as an agent on behalf of third parties, is recognised market assessments of the time value of money and risks on a net commission basis.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates Installation, hardware and service revenue is recognised in the the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the income statement when the goods and services are activated.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount Other revenue principally includes income from technical of any goodwill allocated to those units, and then to reduce the platform services, Sky Bet, third party set-top box sales and carrying amount of other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
With the exception of Sky Bet revenue, other revenue is recognised, net of any discount An impairment loss for an individual asset or cash generating given, when the relevant goods or service are provided.
Sky unit will be reversed if there has been a change in estimates used Bet revenue is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 and to determine the recoverable amount since the last impairment represents income in the period for betting and gaming loss was recognised and is only reversed to the extent that the activities, defined as amounts staked by customers less assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount winnings paid out.
that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration Impairment of goodwill is not reversed.
When the Group sells a set-top box, installation or service and a subscription in one bundled k Provisions transaction, the total consideration from the arrangement is Provisions are recognised when the Group has a probable, allocated to each element based on their relative fair values.
The present legal or constructive obligation to make a transfer of fair value of each individual element is determined using vendor economic benefits as a result of past events where a reliable specific or third party evidence.
The amount of revenue the Group estimate is available.
The amounts recognised represent the recognises for delivered elements is limited to the cash received.
Groups best estimate of the transfer of benefits that will be required to settle the obligation as of the balance sheet date.
n Employee benefits Provisions are discounted if the effect of the time value of money Wages, salaries, social security contributions, bonuses payable is material using a pre-tax market rate adjusted for risks specific and non-monetary benefits for current employees are recognised to the liability.
in the income statement as the employees services are rendered.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 77 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reductions of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant The Group provides pensions to eligible employees through rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
The amount charged to the income statement in the year represents the cost of The lease expense arising from operating leases is charged to the contributions payable by the Group to the schemes in exchange income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the for employee services rendered in that year.
Benefits received and receivable as incentives to enter into schemes are held independently of the Group.
operating leases are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Termination benefits are recognised as a liability when, and only when, the Group has a demonstrable commitment to terminate p Taxation, including deferred taxation the employment of an employee or group of employees before The Groups liability for current tax is based on taxable profit for the normal retirement date or as the result of an offer to the year, and is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted encourage voluntary redundancy.
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised using the payments to certain employees which must be measured at fair balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary value and recognised as an expense in the income statement, differences between the carrying amounts of assets and with a corresponding increase in equity in the case of equityliabilities in the balance sheet and the corresponding tax bases settled payments, and liabilities in the case of cash-settled used in the computation of taxable profit.
The fair values of equity-settled payments are measured arising from goodwill and the initial recognition of assets or at the dates of grant using option-pricing models, taking liabilities that affect neither accounting profit nor taxable profit into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards are not provided for.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised are granted.
Cash-settled share-based payments are measured for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in at their fair value as at the balance sheet date.
The fair value subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, is recognised over the period during which employees become except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the unconditionally entitled to the awards, subject to the Groups temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary estimate of the number of awards which will be forfeited, either difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount due to employees leaving the Group prior to vesting or due to of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of non-market based performance conditions not being met.
Where realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and an award has market-based performance conditions, the fair liabilities, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively value of the award is adjusted for the probability of achieving enacted at the balance sheet date.
these via the option pricing model.
The total amount recognised in the income statement as an expense is adjusted to reflect the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each actual number of awards that vest, except where forfeiture is balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect an amount that due to the failure to meet market-based performance measures.
is probable to be realised based on the weight of all available In the event of a cancellation, whether by the Group or by a evidence.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are participating employee, the compensation expense that would expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or have been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period is the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited o Leases directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also included Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the within equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax to ownership of the asset to the lessee.
All other leases are assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to classified as operating leases.
income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the When the Group is lessor, sublease income from operating leases Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
q Distributions to equity shareholders When the Group is lessee, assets held under finance leases are Dividends are recognised in the retained earnings reserve in the recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value on the date of acquisition, or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum year in which they are declared.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 78 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The cost of repurchasing the Groups own equity shares for u Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments to cancellation share buy-backs is recorded in retained earnings.
existing standards that are not yet effective In addition, the nominal cost of shares repurchased is deducted The Group has not yet adopted certain new standards, from share capital and a matching credit is recorded in the capital amendments and interpretations to existing standards, which redemption reserve.
have been published but are only effective for our accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012 or later periods.
These r Earnings per share new pronouncements are listed below: Basic earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the year, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes: Deferred Tax shares in issue during the year, excluding the weighted average Recovery of Underlying Assets effective 1 January 2012 number of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements held in the Groups ESOP during the year to satisfy employee Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income share awards.
effective 1 July 2012 Diluted earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective for the year, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary 1 January 2013 shares in issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective 1 January 2013 in the Groups ESOP during the year to satisfy employee share awards, plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities resulting from share options where the inclusion of these would effective 1 January 2013 not be antidilutive.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective 1 January 2013 s Foreign currency translation The Groups functional currency and presentational currency Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits is pounds sterling.
Trading activities denominated in foreign effective 1 January 2013 currencies are recorded in pounds sterling at the applicable Amendment to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements monthly exchange rates.
Monetary assets, liabilities and effective 1 January 2013 commitments denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange at that date.
Amendment to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Ventures effective 1 January 2013 currencies are translated to pounds sterling at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the initial transaction.
Gains and losses Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures from the retranslation of assets and liabilities are included net Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities in profit for the year, except for exchange differences arising on effective 1 January 2013 non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
Annual Improvements 20092011 Cycle effective 1 January 2013 The assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation date.
Income and expense items are translated at the applicable Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities monthly average exchange rates.
Any exchange differences effective 1 January 2014 arising are classified as equity and transferred to other reserves.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2015 t Reportable segments The Directors are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires the segment information of these standards, amendments and interpretations in future presented in the financial statements to be that which is used periods.
internally by the chief operating decision maker to evaluate the performance of the business and decide how to allocate v Critical accounting policies and the use of judgment resources.
The Group has identified the Board of Directors as Certain accounting policies are considered to be critical to the its chief operating decision maker and as the internal reporting Group.
An accounting policy is considered to be critical if, in the reviewed by the Board focuses on the operations of the Group as Directors judgment, its selection or application materially affects a whole and does not identify individual operating segments, the the Groups financial position or results.
Below is a summary of Group has only one reportable segment.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 79 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 1.
Goodwill see note 12 Judgment is required in determining the fair value of the Groups critical accounting policies and details of the key identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities areas of judgment that are exercised in their application.
Revenue see note 2 fair values involves the use of significant estimates and Selecting the appropriate timing for, and amount of, revenue assumptions, including expectations about future cash flows, to be recognised requires judgment.
This may involve discount rates and the lives of assets following purchase.
estimating the fair value of consideration before it is received.
Judgment is also required in evaluating whether any When the Group sells a set-top box, installation or service and a subscription in one bundled transaction, the total impairment loss has arisen against the carrying amount consideration from the arrangement is allocated to each of goodwill.
This may require calculation of the recoverable amount of cash generating units to which the goodwill is element based on its relative fair value.
The fair value of each associated.
Such a calculation may involve estimates of the individual element is determined using vendor specific or third net present value of future forecast cash flows and selecting party evidence.
The amount of revenue the Group recognises an appropriate discount rate.
Alternatively, it may involve a for delivered elements is limited to the cash received.
calculation of the fair value less costs to sell of the applicable Judgment is also required in evaluating the likelihood cash generating unit.
of collection of customer debt after revenue has been iv.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment recognised.
This evaluation requires estimates to be made, see notes 13 and 14 including the level of provision to be made for amounts with The assessment of the useful economic lives of these assets uncertain recovery profiles.
Provisions are based on historical requires judgment.
Depreciation and amortisation is charged trends in the percentage of debts which are not recovered, or to the income statement based on the useful economic life on more detailed reviews of individually significant balances.
This assessment requires estimation of the period ii.
Taxation see note 8 over which the Group will benefit from the assets.
The Groups tax charge is the sum of the total current and Determining whether the carrying amount of these assets deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total has any indication of impairment also requires judgment.
If tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and an indication of impairment is identified, further judgment judgment in respect of certain items whose tax treatment is required to assess whether the carrying amount can be cannot be finally determined until resolution has been supported by the net present value of future cash flows forecast reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, to be derived from the asset.
This forecast involves cash flow through a formal legal process.
projections and selecting the appropriate discount rate.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make Assessing whether assets meet the required criteria for judgments and estimates in relation to tax audit issues and initial capitalisation requires judgment.
Amounts accrued are based on managements determination of whether the assets will result in future interpretation of country-specific tax law and the likelihood benefits to the Group.
In particular, internally generated of settlement.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it intangible assets must be assessed during the development is probable that the tax positions will be sustained.
Once phase to identify whether the Group has the ability and considered to be probable, management reviews each material intention to complete the development successfully.
tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of the likely v. Deferred tax see note 17 resolution of the issue through negotiation and or litigation.
The key area of judgment in respect of deferred tax accounting is the assessment of the expected timing and The amounts recognised in the consolidated financial manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts statements in respect of each matter are derived from the of assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date.
In Groups best estimation and judgment, as described above.
particular, assessment is required of whether it is probable However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome that there will be suitable future taxable profits against which of these items means the eventual resolution could differ any deferred tax assets can be utilised.
from the provision and in such event the Group would be required to make an adjustment in a subsequent period which vi.
Programming inventory see note 18 could have a material impact on the Groups profit and loss The Group has several main types of programming inventory: and or cash position.
Sport, News, Movies and General entertainment, as detailed in accounting policy g i.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 80 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The cost of acquired Sport and News rights is recognised in the income statement on first broadcast or, where Sports rights are for multiple seasons or competitions, Sports rights are amortised on a straight-line basis across the seasons or competitions.
Acquired movie rights are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the transmission rights.
These treatments best represent our estimate of the benefits received from the acquired rights.
The key area of accounting for programming inventory requiring judgment is the assessment of the appropriate profile over which to amortise general entertainment programming.
This assessment requires the Group to form an expectation of the number of times a programme will be broadcast, and the relative value associated with each broadcast.
In order to perform this assessment, the Group considers the following factors: T he period over which the programme is expected to be shown on the Groups channels.
This is usually based on a combination of the actual period specified in the contract for the programme rights, and the initial expectation of when repeat broadcasts will be scheduled.
T he alternative programming available to the Group for scheduling within this period.
This consideration provides the most appropriate information in order to estimate how frequently individual programmes will be shown during the period in which the Group holds their broadcast rights.
The potential benefits associated with scheduling programming.
Certain high-profile or high-quality programming titles have additional value to the Group, as they attract new TV Customers and encourage retention of existing TV Customers.
As such, these programmes are able to retain more value throughout their broadcast runs than would be indicated when considering the expected viewing numbers alone.
E xpectations as to the number of viewers a programme is likely to achieve for each individual broadcast over the contractual broadcast period.
The number of viewers per broadcast directly influences advertising revenue for channels, although this consideration is partly influenced by the Groups assessment of the potential impact of the publicly available information on its competitors scheduling intentions against planned broadcasts.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 81 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 2.
Revenue 2012 2011 m m Continuing operations Retail subscription 5,593 5,471 Wholesale subscription 351 323 Advertising 440 458 Installation, hardware and service 98 112 Other 309 233 6,791 6,597 To provide a more relevant presentation, management has reclassified Sky Player and Sky Mobile revenue of 11 million in the current period and 16 million in the comparative period from other revenue to retail subscription revenue.
Revenue from continuing operations arises from goods and services provided to the UK, with the exception of 418 million 2011: 422 million which arises from services provided to other countries.
Operating expense 2012 2011 m m Continuing operations Programming 2,298 2,188 Direct networks 676 584 ii Marketing 1,064 1,179 Subscriber management and supply chain 621 596 Transmission, technology and fixed networks 395 395 i Administration 494 582 5,548 5,524 i Included within administration costs for the year ended 30 June 2012 is a credit of 31 million in relation to the News Corporation proposal consisting of costs incurred offset by the receipt of the break fee see note 30.
Also included are restructuring costs of 11 million which comprise severance payments in relation to approximately 35 senior roles as part of a restructuring initiative to improve operational efficiency.
Included within administration costs for the year ended 30 June 2011 is 26 million of restructuring costs arising on the acquisition of Living TV, which comprise principally redundancy payments and the early termination of a pre-acquisition contract and 15 million of costs in relation to the News Corporation proposal.
ii Included within marketing costs for the year ended 30 June 2011 is a credit of 41 million in relation to the refund of import duty on set-top boxes paid out in prior years.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 82 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
Investment income and finance costs 2012 2011 m m Investment income Cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits 14 9 Dividends received from available-for-sale investments 4 18 9 2012 2011 m m Finance costs Interest payable and similar charges i 743 million 750 million Revolving Credit Facilities RCF 8 6 Guaranteed Notes see note 22 115 116 Finance lease interest 7 7 130 129 Other finance income expense Remeasurement of borrowings and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 20 17 Remeasurement of other derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 2 Gain loss arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 47 4 Loss gain arising on adjustment for hedged item in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 48 7 19 18 111 111 i Included in RCF costs for the year ended 30 June 2012 is a write-off of 5 million relating to the facility fee on the 750 million RCF which has now been replaced with the 743 million RCF see note 22.
Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year arose on the general borrowing pool and are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 5.4% 2011: 5.3% to expenditure on such assets.
The amount capitalised in the current year amounted to 1 million 2011: less than 1 million.
Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment In the prior year, on 5 April 2011, the Group sold its available-for-sale investment in Shine Limited Shine for a maximum consideration of 36 million, of which 31 million has been received to date.
The remaining consideration is contingent on certain post transaction criteria and is currently held in escrow.
At the date of disposal, the Group estimated the fair value of the contingent consideration to be 4 million and recorded a profit on disposal of 9 million, being the excess of the recognised consideration above the carrying value of the shares.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 83 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 6.
Profit before taxation Profit before taxation is stated after charging: Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total m m m Year ended 30 June 2012 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 1,854 1,854 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 179 179 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 165 165 Rentals on operating leases and similar arrangements 50 50 Year ended 30 June 2011 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 1,850 1,850 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 173 3 176 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 159 1 160 Rentals on operating leases and similar arrangements 42 2 44 Consolidated non-current assets outside the UK were 2 million 2011: 2 million.
Foreign exchange Foreign exchange gains recognised in the income statement during the year amounted to 2 million 2011: losses of less than 1 million.
Audit fees An analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Total audit fees 11 Total non-audit fees 11 Total auditor remuneration 22 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts were 1.1 million 2011: 0.9 million and fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation were 0.3 million 2011: 0.4 million.
Amounts paid to the auditor for non-audit fees include audit related services of 0.3 million 2011: 0.3 million, taxation services of 0.3 million 2011: nil, other assurance services of 0.1 million 2011: 0.1 million, other advisory services of 0.1 million 2011: nil and transaction services of nil 2011: 0.4 million.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 84 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7.
Employee benefits and key management compensation a Group employee benefits 2012 2011 m m Wages and salaries 687 651 Social security costs 78 80 i Costs of employee share option schemes 66 67 ii Contributions to the Groups pension schemes 26 27 857 825 i A 66 million charge relates to equity-settled share-based payments 2011: 69 million charge.
There were no charges relating to cash-settled share-based payments 2011: 2 million credit.
ii The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes.
The pension charge for the year represents the cost of contributions payable by the Group to the schemes during the year.
The amount payable to the schemes by the Group at 30 June 2012 was 5 million 2011: 4 million.
The average monthly number of full-time equivalent persons including temporary employees employed by the Group during the year was as follows: 2012 2011 Number Number Channels and services 2,466 2,498 Customer service, sales and marketing 11,087 9,440 Transmission and technology 3,204 2,753 Management and administration 1,180 1,315 17,937 16,006 There are approximately 506 2011: 446 temporary staff included within the average number of full-time equivalent persons employed by the Group.
b Key management compensation see note 30d 2012 2011 m m Short-term employee benefits 65 Share-based payments 76 13 11 Post-employment benefits were less than 1 million 2011: less than 1 million.
The amounts disclosed for key management compensation are included within the disclosures in note 7 a.
Taxation a Taxation recognised in the income statement 2012 2011 m m Current tax expense Current year 303 386 Adjustment in respect of prior years 33 115 Total current tax charge 270 271 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 6 17 Adjustment in respect of prior years 710 Total deferred tax charge credit 13 7 Taxation 283 264 Continuing operations 283 256 Discontinued operations see note 9 8 283 264 Taxation relates to a 283 million UK corporation tax charge 2011: 264 million.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 85 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 8.
Taxation continued b Taxation recognised directly in equity 2012 2011 m m Current tax credit relating to share-based payments 14 2 Deferred tax charge credit relating to share-based payments 24 17 Deferred tax charge credit relating to cash flow hedges 16 25 26 44 c Reconciliation of effective tax rate The tax expense for the year is lower 2011: lower than the expense that would have been charged using the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 25.5% applied to profit before tax.
The applicable enacted or substantively enacted effective rate of UK corporation tax for the year was 25.5% 2011: 27.5%.
The differences are explained below: 2012 2011 m m Profit before tax: Continuing operations 1,189 1,014 Discontinued operations 60 1,189 1,074 Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 25.5% 2011: 27.5% 303 295 Effects of: Non-deductible expense 383 Deferred tax write-off following tax rate change 22 Tax attributed to discontinued operations 8 Tax exempt gain on discontinued operations 17 ii Tax exempt gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments 2 i Over provision in respect of prior years 25 105 Taxation 283 264 i This includes the tax effect of agreeing a number of historic issues with HMRC resulting in a credit to the prior year tax liability.
ii This is the tax effect of the gain on disposal of the available-for-sale investments relating to the Groups investment in Shine for the year ended 30 June 2011, see note 5.
Discontinued operations On 1 September 2010, the Group completed the sale of its business-to-business telecommunications operation, Easynet Global Services Easynet, to Lloyds Development Capital LDC for 100 million.
Subsequent to this an agreed working capital adjustment reduced total net consideration to 94 million.
The Group retains the UK network assets that it acquired as part of the original acquisition of Easynet Group in 2005.
As part of the sale, the Group and LDC entered into a long-term supply agreement to grant Easynet continued access to the Groups fibre network and Easynet continues to be a key supplier of data network and hosting services to the Group.
Easynet represented a separate major line of business for the Group.
As a result its operations were treated as discontinued for the year ended 30 June 2011.
A single amount is shown on the face of the consolidated income statement comprising the post-tax result of discontinued operations and the post-tax profit recognised on the disposal of the discontinued operation.
A pre-tax profit of 62 million arose on the disposal of Easynet being the net proceeds of disposal less the carrying amount of Easynets net liabilities and attributable goodwill.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 86 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The results of discontinued operations, which were included in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 June 2011, were as follows: 1 2011 m Revenue 32 Operating expense 34 Operating loss 2 Profit on disposal 62 Profit before tax 60 ii Attributable tax expense 8 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 52 i Amounts include the results of discontinued operations up to the date of disposal 1 September 2010. ii Attributable tax expense comprises nil in respect of operating activities and 8 million arising as a result of the disposal.
The net liabilities of Easynet at the date of disposal were: 1 September 2010 m Non-current assets Intangible assets 21 Property, plant and equipment 40 61 Current assets Inventory 1 Trade and other receivables 47 Cash and cash equivalents 16 64 Total assets 125 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 83 Provisions 1 84 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 37 Deferred tax liability 5 42 Total liabilities 126 Net liabilities 1 Total consideration 94 Net liabilities disposed 1 Attributable goodwill 30 Foreign exchange recycled to the income statement on disposal 4 Other 1 Net profit on disposal 62 Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 94 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of 16 Net cash inflow arising on disposal 78 During the year ended 30 June 2011, cash flows attributable to Easynet comprised a net operating cash outflow of 7 million and a net cash inflow in respect of investing activities of 76 million.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 87 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 10.
Earnings per share The weighted average number of shares for the year was: 2012 2011 Millions of Millions of shares shares Ordinary shares 1,731 1,753 ESOP trust ordinary shares 10 10 Basic shares 1,721 1,743 Dilutive ordinary shares from share options 16 20 Diluted shares 1,737 1,763 The calculation of diluted earnings per share excludes less than 1 million share options 2011: 2 million, which could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future, but which have been excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as they are anti-dilutive in the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit or loss for the year into the weighted average number of shares for the year.
In order to provide a measure of underlying performance, management have chosen to present an adjusted profit for the year which excludes items that may distort comparability.
Such items arise from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group but which management believes should be separately identified to help explain underlying performance.
2012 2011 m m Reconciliation from profit for the year from continuing operations to adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations Profit for the year from continuing operations 906 758 Net recovery of costs in relation to News Corporation proposal see note 3 31 15 Costs relating to restructuring exercise see note 3 11 Living TV restructuring costs see note 3 26 Recovery of import duty on set-top boxes see note 3 41 RCF fee write-off see note 4 5 Remeasurement of all derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting and hedge ineffectiveness see note 4 19 18 Profit on disposal of joint venture see note 15 7 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment see note 5 9 i Tax credit on settlement of liability 15 Tax effect of above items 10 9 Adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations 875 725 i Tax credit arising on the settlement of the pre-acquisition tax liabilities of a subsidiary of the Group.
2012 2011 pence pence Earnings per share from profit for the year Basic Continuing operations 52.6p 43.5p Discontinued operations 3.0p Total 52.6p 46.5 p Diluted Continuing operations 52.2p 43.0p Discontinued operations 2.9p Total 52.2p 45.9p Adjusted earnings per share from adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations Basic 50.8p 41.6p Diluted 50.4p 41.1p ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 88 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11.
Dividends 2012 2011 m m Dividends declared and paid during the year 2010 Final dividend paid: 11.525p per ordinary share 201 2011 Interim dividend paid: 8.74p per ordinary share 152 2011 Final dividend paid: 14.54p per ordinary share 253 2012 Interim dividend paid: 9.20p per ordinary share 157 410 353 The 2012 final dividend proposed is 16.20 pence per ordinary share being 269 million.
The dividend was not declared at the balance sheet date and is therefore not recognised as a liability as at 30 June 2012.
Dividends are paid between Group companies out of profits available for distribution subject to, inter alia, the provisions of the companies articles of association and the Companies Act 2006.
The ESOP has waived its rights to dividends.
Goodwill m Carrying value At 1 July 2010 852 Purchase of Living TV Group Living TV 79 Purchase of The Cloud Networks Limited The Cloud 38 Other purchases 5 Disposal of Easynet Enterprise 30 At 30 June 2011 944 Purchase of Acetrax AG Acetrax 12 At 30 June 2012 956 Goodwill has principally arisen from the Groups purchases of the Sports Internet Group SIG, British Interactive Broadcasting BiB, Easynets UK broadband network assets and residential business, 365 Media, Amstrad, Living TV and The Cloud.
Impairment reviews were performed on these goodwill balances at 30 June 2012, which did not indicate impairment.
During the year, the Group completed the acquisition of Acetrax for consideration of 15 million.
This resulted in additional goodwill of 12 million.
Goodwill, allocated by cash generating unit, is analysed as follows: 2012 2011 m m i Broadcast 807 795 ii Betting and gaming 149 149 956 944 The Broadcast unit includes intangibles with indefinite lives of 25 million 2011: 25 million.
Recoverable amounts for the cash generating units were calculated on the basis of value in use or fair value less costs to sell as appropriate, using cash flows calculated for the next five years as forecast by management.
A long-term growth rate of 3% was applied in order to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond this period.
The cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 8% 2011: 9%.
In determining the applicable discount rate, management applied judgment in respect of several factors, which included, inter alia: assessing the risk attached to future cash flows and making reference to the capital asset pricing model the CAPM.
Management gave consideration to the selection of appropriate inputs to the CAPM, which included the risk free rate, the equity risk premium and a measure of systematic risk.
Management also considers capital structure and an appropriate cost of debt in arriving at the discount rate.
i Broadcast The Broadcast unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of Easynets UK broadband network assets, Easynets UK residential business, 365 Medias content business, BiB, Amstrad, Living TV and The Cloud.
The key assumptions, on which forecast five year cash flows of the Broadcast unit were based, include the number of gross customer additions, the rate of churn, the average revenue per user, levels of programming spend, acquisition costs per customer and anticipated changes in the product mix and marketing mix of the broadcast business.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on the extrapolation of historical trends within the Group, and external information on expected future trends in the UK and Ireland entertainment and communications industry.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 89 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 12.
Goodwill continued ii Betting and gaming The Betting and gaming unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of SIG and 365 Medias betting businesses.
The key assumptions, on which forecast five year cash flows were based, include the number of weekly unique users, the number of bets placed per user per week, the average stake per user per week and the average spend per active user per week.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on an extrapolation of historical trends within the unit, and external information on expected future trends in betting and gaming.
Intangible assets Internally generated Acquired intangible intangible Internallyassets assets generated Software Other not yet not yet intangible development Software intangible available available assets external licences assets for use for use Total m m m m m m m Cost At 1 July 2010 174 305 120 113 32 99 843 Additions from business combinations 2 90 92 Additions 49 22 3 60 14 67 215 Disposals 23 51 22 1 97 Disposals of discontinued operations 5 2 17 19 43 Transfers 19 73 2 20 74 At 30 June 2011 214 347 88 243 26 92 1,010 Additions from business combinations 3 1 4 Additions 45 22 11 57 56 31 222 Disposals 35 44 20 17 116 Transfers 28 19 1 28 20 At 30 June 2012 252 347 80 284 54 103 1,120 Amortisation At 1 July 2010 92 255 81 79 507 Amortisation 35 53 16 53 157 Impairments 2 1 3 Disposals 23 51 22 1 97 Disposals of discontinued operations 3 2 11 6 22 At 30 June 2011 103 256 64 125 548 Amortisation 54 37 15 59 165 Disposals 35 44 20 17 116 At 30 June 2012 122 249 59 167 597 Carrying amounts At 1 July 2010 82 50 39 34 32 99 336 At 30 June 2011 111 91 24 118 26 92 462 At 30 June 2012 130 98 21 117 54 103 523 The Groups internally generated intangible assets relate to software development associated with our customer management systems and set-top boxes.
The Groups other intangible assets mainly include copyright licences, customer lists and relationships, connection fees and patents and brands acquired in business combinations.
The estimated future amortisation charge on intangible assets with finite lives for each of the next five years is set out below.
It is likely that future amortisation will vary from the figures below as the estimate does not include the impact of any future investments, disposals or capital expenditure.
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 m m m m m Estimated amortisation charge 176 122 89 21 20 For intangible assets acquired in business combinations in the year, the average amortisation period is 9 years 2011: 20 years.
Other intangible assets include certain assets with indefinite useful lives.
The carrying value of these assets is 25 million 2011: 25 million.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 90 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14.
Property, plant and equipment Equipment, Assets Freehold furniture not yet land and Leasehold and available i ii buildings improvements fixtures for use Total m m m m m Cost At 1 July 2010 186 73 1,040 221 1,520 Additions from business combinations 3 3 Additions 2 2 167 39 210 Disposals 1 2 18 21 Disposals of discontinued operations 14 136 2 152 Transfers 145 83 228 At 30 June 2011 332 59 1,139 30 1,560 Foreign exchange movements 1 1 Additions 1 192 38 231 Disposals 1 160 161 Transfers 1 40 41 At 30 June 2012 333 59 1,210 27 1,629 Depreciation At 1 July 2010 26 27 568 621 Depreciation 6 1 167 174 Impairments 2 2 Disposals 1 2 18 21 Disposals of discontinued operations 4 108 112 At 30 June 2011 31 22 611 664 Foreign exchange movements 1 1 Depreciation 10 6 163 179 Disposals 1 1 159 161 At 30 June 2012 40 27 614 681 Carrying amounts At 1 July 2010 160 46 472 221 899 At 30 June 2011 301 37 528 30 896 At 30 June 2012 293 32 596 27 948 i The amounts shown include assets held under finance leases with a net book value of 5 million 2011: 6 million.
The cost of these assets was 11 million 2011: 11 million and the accumulated depreciation was 6 million 2011: 5 million.
Depreciation charged during the year on such assets was 1 million 2011: 1 million.
ii Depreciation was not charged on 88 million of land 2011: 88 million.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 91 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 15.
Investments in joint ventures and associates A list of the Groups significant investments in joint ventures and associates, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
The movement in joint ventures and associates during the year was as follows: 2012 2011 m m Share of net assets: At 1 July 151 149 Movement in net assets Funding, net of repayments 64 i Dividends received 39 29 i Share of profits 39 34 i Disposal of joint venture 3 Exchange differences on translation of foreign joint ventures and associates 2 7 At 30 June 156 151 i During the year, the Group disposed of its interest in Chelsea Digital Media Limited.
Included in share of profits for the year is a profit on disposal of 7 million.
Consideration received on the sale to date of 6 million is included within dividends received.
The Groups share of any capital commitments and contingent liabilities of associates and joint ventures is shown in note 28. a Investments in joint ventures Representing the Groups share of each joint venture: 2012 2011 m m Non-current assets 29 5 Current assets 75 63 Current liabilities 32 32 Non-current liabilities 46 7 Shareholders equity 26 29 Revenue 84 79 Expense 69 59 Taxation 4 4 Share of profit from joint ventures 11 16 b Investments in associates Representing a 100% share of each associate: 2012 2011 m m Total assets 256 183 Total liabilities 78 66 Shareholders equity 178 117 i Revenue 296 257 i Profit 105 85 i Revenue and profit numbers are provided for the full year ended 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2011.
Available-for-sale investments 2012 2011 m m Investment in ITV at cost 946 946 Impairment of ITV investment 807 807 Realised gain on ITV investment 115 115 Part disposal of ITV investment 196 196 Unrealised gain on ITV investment 165 157 Fair value of ITV investment 223 215 Other investments at cost 5 228 215 ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 92 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS On 17 November 2006, the Group acquired 696 million shares in ITV, at a price of 135 pence per share, representing 17.9% of the issued capital of ITV, for a total consideration of 946 million including fees and taxes.
The Groups investment in ITV is carried at fair value.
The fair value is determined with reference to its equity share price at the balance sheet date.
An impairment in the carrying value was first recorded at 31 December 2007, due to the significant and prolonged decline in the equity share price.
In accordance with IFRS, the Group has continued to review that carrying value and has recognised a cumulative impairment loss of 807 million in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009.
This impairment loss was determined with reference to ITVs closing equity share price of 20.0 pence at 27 March 2009, the last trading day of the Groups third fiscal quarter in fiscal 2009.
In line with IFRS, all subsequent increases in the fair value of the ITV investment above this impaired value have been recorded in the available-for-sale reserve.
On 8 February 2010, the Group placed a shareholding of 10.4% in ITV in accordance with the final undertakings given by the Group to the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills relating to the Groups investment in ITV.
The placing by the Group of 404,362,095 ITV shares at 48.5 pence per share resulted in aggregate consideration of 196 million.
A profit of 115 million was realised on disposal being the excess of the consideration above the impaired value of the shares.
The Group continues to hold just under 7.5% of the shares in ITV.
The disposal was exempt from tax under the provisions of the Substantial Shareholding Exemption SSE and as such the SSE provisions would prevent any capital loss arising for tax purposes.
The Group holds certain unquoted equity investments that are carried at cost less impairment.
The fair value of these investments is not considered to differ significantly from their carrying value.
Deferred tax i Recognised deferred tax assets liabilities Sharebased Financial Accelerated Short-term payments instruments tax temporary temporary temporary depreciation Tax losses differences differences differences Total m m m m m m At 1 July 2010 8 6 25 30 7 Charge credit to income 3 1 2 18 5 9 Credit to equity 19 24 43 Acquisition of subsidiaries 22 22 Disposal of subsidiary 3 2 5 Effect of change in tax rate Income 2 2 Equity 2 1 1 At 30 June 2011 14 1 6 58 10 69 Charge to income 1 6 5 12 Credit to equity 23 18 41 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 Effect of change in tax rate Income 2 1 1 Equity 1 2 1 At 30 June 2012 12 1 6 26 30 15 Deferred tax assets have been recognised at 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2011 on the basis that, from managements current forecast of the Groups entities, it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits against which these assets can be utilised.
Tax losses are treated as unrecognised deferred tax assets if it is not considered probable that suitable future taxable profits will arise.
During the year, any tax losses suffered by UK entities have been relieved against taxable profits in other UK entities in the Group.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which they reverse.
The rate enacted or substantively enacted for the relevant periods of reversal is 24% as at 30 June 2012 2011: 26%.
The Government has indicated that it intends to introduce further reductions in the main tax rate, with the rate falling by 1% each year down to 22% by 1 April 2014.
These further reductions to the tax rate, below the 24% rate, have not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are therefore not reflected in these consolidated financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 93 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 17.
Inventories The impact of the reduction to the main tax rate to 22% 2011: 2012 2011 m m 25% on the deferred tax attributes of the Group would be a Television programme rights 379 265 reduction in the deferred tax asset by 1 million 2011: 2 million.
Set-top boxes and related equipment 69 98 Other inventories 8 12 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
456 375 The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: At 30 June 2012, 81% 2011: 85% of the television programme rights and 100% 2011: 100% of set-top boxes and related 2012 2011 equipment and other inventories is expected to be recognised in m m the income statement within 12 months.
Deferred tax assets 46 79 Deferred tax liabilities 31 10 19.
Trade and other receivables 15 69 2012 2011 m m ii Unrecognised deferred tax assets Gross trade receivables 170 274 2012 2011 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 89 195 m m Net trade receivables 81 79 Tax losses arising from trading 252 300 Amounts receivable from joint ventures and Tax losses arising from capital disposals and associates 8 7 provisions against investments 341 366 Amounts receivable from other related parties 12 10 593 666 Prepayments 294 239 Accrued income 155 152 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the VAT 1 17 items above because it is not probable that future taxable profits Other 70 88 Current trade and other receivables 621 592 will be available against which the Group can utilise the losses.
Non-current prepayments 7 13 Non-current other receivables 10 At 30 June 2012, a deferred tax asset of 14 million 2011: Non-current trade and other receivables 17 13 40 million principally arising from UK losses in the Group, has Total trade and other receivables 638 605 not been recognised.
These losses can only be offset against taxable profits generated in the entities concerned.
There is Included within current trade and other receivables is nil 2011: nil currently insufficient evidence to support the recognition of a which is due in more than one year.
deferred tax asset relating to these losses.
The UK trading losses The ageing of the Groups net trade receivables which are past can be carried forward indefinitely.
due but not impaired is as follows: At 30 June 2012, a deferred tax asset of 238 million 2011: 2012 2011 260 million has not been recognised in respect of overseas m m trading losses on the basis that it is not probable that these Up to 30 days past due date 49 62 temporary differences will be utilised.
These losses include 30 to 60 days past due date 1 1 235 million 2011: 258 million with respect to the Groups 60 to 120 days past due date 2 2 More than 120 days past due date 2 German holding companys former investment in KirchPayTV and 52 67 3 million 2011: 2 million with respect to The Cloud and Acetrax subsidiaries.
The Cloud and KirchPayTV overseas trading losses can The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and be carried forward indefinitely.
The Acetrax losses will expire over other receivables approximates their fair values.
The Group is the course of the next seven years.
exposed to credit risk on its trade and other receivables, however the Group does not have any significant concentrations of credit At 30 June 2012, a deferred tax asset of 329 million 2011: risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties 354 million has not been recognised in respect of potential and customers.
Trade receivables principally comprise amounts capital losses related to the Groups former investment in outstanding from subscribers, advertisers and other customers.
KirchPayTV, on the basis that utilisation of these temporary differences is not probable.
At 30 June 2012, the Group also has Provisions for doubtful debts capital losses with a tax value estimated to be in excess of 12 2012 2011 million 2011: 12 million including impairment of a football club and m m other investments, which have not been recognised as a deferred Balance at beginning of year 195 153 Amounts utilised 137 tax asset, on the basis that it is not probable that they will be Income statement charge 31 42 utilised.
The capital losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
Balance at end of year 89 195 ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 94 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.
Trade and other payables 2012 2011 m m i Trade payables 629 429 Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates 10 5 Amounts owed to other related parties 90 69 VAT 140 145 Accruals 620 654 Deferred income 291 286 Other 75 87 Current trade and other payables 1,855 1,675 Trade payables 912 Amounts owed to other related parties 85 Deferred income 67 Other 42 Non-current trade and other payables 27 26 Total trade and other payables 1,882 1,701 i Included within trade payables are 226 million 2011: 182 million of US dollar-denominated payables.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair values.
Trade payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for programming purchases and ongoing costs.
Provisions At Provided Utilised At Provided Utilised At during during 1 July during during 30 June 1 July 2010 the year the year 2011 the year the year 2012 m m m m m m m Current liabilities Restructuring provision 7 7 6 6 i Acquired and acquisition related provisions 15 4 8 11 4 15 ii Other provisions 55 10 18 6 22 27 9 15 21 28 6 43 Non-current liabilities iii Other provisions 11 1 3 9 7 4 12 i These provisions arose on the acquisition of Amstrad which took place during the year ended 30 June 2008.
The amounts remaining at 30 June 2012 primarily relate to the settlement of outstanding claims.
ii Included in other provisions are amounts provided for onerous contracts for property leases, maintenance and legal disputes.
The timing of the cash flows for onerous property leases and maintenance are dependent on the terms of the remaining leases.
The timing of the cash flows for legal disputes cannot be reasonably determined.
iii Included within non-current other provisions are amounts provided for onerous contracts for property leases and maintenance.
The timing of the cash flows are dependent on the terms of the leases, but are expected to continue up to June 2021.
Borrowings 2012 2011 m m Current borrowings ii Obligations under finance leases 88 Non-current borrowings i US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 500 490 i 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 407 406 i US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 495 476 i US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 420 383 i 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 296 295 i US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 220 214 ii Obligations under finance leases 60 61 2,398 2,325 ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 95 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 22.
Borrowings continued i Guaranteed Notes At 30 June 2012, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by the Company: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in a November 2018 389 260 129 7.091% 6m LIBOR 5.542% 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 300 300 6.000% N A 1,076 850 226 a On 1 June 2012, the Group entered into forward starting interest rate swaps to fix the interest rates on 260 million of the November 2018 notes from 15 May 2013 to 15 November 2018.
The 260 million, referred to as fixed in the table above, has one further rate reset in November 2012 before this fixed rate becomes effective.
At 30 June 2012, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 428 171 257 5.427% 6m LIBOR 0.698% 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 350 50 5.750% 6m LIBOR 0.229% US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 200 200 5.826% N A 1,028 721 307 At 30 June 2011, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by the Company: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 389 N A 6m LIBOR 5.542% 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 300 300 6.000% N A 1,076 590 486 At 30 June 2011, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 428 171 257 5.427% 6m LIBOR 0.698% 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 350 50 5.750% 6m LIBOR 0.229% US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 200 200 5.826% N A 1,028 721 307 Note: Hedged value is the final redemption value including any hedging.
The Group has a Euro Medium Term Note Programme the Programme, which provides the Group with a standardised documentation platform for senior debt issuance in the Eurobond markets.
The 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes maturing in May 2027 have been issued under the Programme, which allows issuance of up to 1 billion.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 96 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ii Finance leases The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 2012 2011 m m Within one year 88 Between one and two years 88 Between two and three years 88 Between three and four years 88 Between four and five years 88 After five years 153 161 193 201 Future finance charges on finance lease liabilities 125 132 Present value of finance lease liabilities 68 69 The main obligations under finance leases are in relation to: a finance arrangements in connection with the broadband network infrastructure.
During the year, repayments of 7 million 2011: 7 million were made against the lease.
A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital outstanding.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 11.1% and expires in November 2039. b finance arrangements in connection with the contact centre in Dunfermline.
During the year, repayments of 1 million 2011: 1 million were made against the lease.
A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital amount outstanding.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 8.5% and expires in September 2020. iii Revolving Credit Facility The Group has a 743 million RCF with a maturity date of 31 October 2016, syndicated across 10 counterparty banks, each with a minimum credit rating of Baa1 or equivalent from Standard & Poors.
At 30 June 2012, the RCF was undrawn 2011: undrawn.
The Group is subject to two financial covenants under the RCF, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest cover ratio, which are tested at the end of each six monthly period.
The key financial covenants are the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA as defined in the loan agreements and EBITDA to Net Interest Payable as defined in the loan agreements.
Net Debt to EBITDA must be no more than 3.00:1 and EBITDA to Net Interest Payable must be at least 3.50:1.
The Group was in compliance with these covenants for all periods presented.
iv Guarantees The following guarantees are in place relating to the Groups borrowings: a British Sky Broadcasting Limited, Sky Subscribers Services Limited, BSkyB Finance UK plc and Sky In-Home Service Limited have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the Companys 743 million RCF and the outstanding Guaranteed Notes issued by the Company b the Company, British Sky Broadcasting Limited, Sky Subscribers Services Limited and Sky In-Home Service Limited have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the outstanding Guaranteed Notes issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 97 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 23.
Derivatives and other financial instruments Set out below are the derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
2012 2011 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 141 833 95 812 Cash flow hedges Cross-currency swaps 186 661 133 661 Forward foreign exchange contracts 28 880 3 223 8 442 28 783 Currency options collars 2 13 13 4 28 28 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Forward foreign exchange contracts 25 1 127 2 67 9 Cross-currency swaps 57 353 28 390 44 353 40 390 Interest rate swaps 140 120 Total 414 2,905 32 873 286 2,363 68 1,210 The maturity of the derivative financial instruments is as follows: 2012 2011 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m In one year or less 23 2 9 20 Between one and two years 6 1 4 6 Between two and five years 101 1 87 2 In more than five years 284 28 186 40 Total 414 32 286 68 Included within the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts are a number of US dollar-denominated forward foreign exchange contracts which the Group has taken out with counterparty banks on behalf of its joint venture AETN UK.
On the same dates as these forward contracts were entered into, the Group entered into equal and opposite forward contracts with AETN UK.
As a result, the net fair value of these contracts to the Group was nil 2011: nil.
The gross sterling notional value of these forward contracts at 30 June 2012 was 2 million 2011: 2 million.
The fair value of the Groups debt-related derivative portfolio at 30 June 2012 was a 356 million net asset 2011: net asset of 232 million with net notional principal amounts totalling 1,454 million 2011: 1,454 million.
This comprised: net assets of 186 million designated as cash flow hedges 2011: net assets of 133 million, net assets of 141 million designated as fair value hedges 2011: net assets of 95 million and net assets of 29 million not designated in a formal hedge relationship 2011: net assets of 4 million.
At 30 June 2012, the carrying value of financial assets that were, upon initial recognition, designated as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss was nil 2011: nil.
Hedge accounting classification and impact The Group has designated its interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of interest rate risk, representing 37% 2011: 37% of the Groups debt portfolio.
Movements in the fair value of the hedged items are taken to the income statement and are offset by movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments, to the extent that hedge accounting is achieved.
The Group has designated its fixed rate cross-currency swaps as cash flow hedges of 34% 2011: 34% of the Groups debt portfolio.
As such, the effective portion of the gain or loss on these contracts is reported as a separate component of the hedging reserve, and is then reclassified to the income statement in the same periods that the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
During the current year, gains of 22 million were removed from the hedging reserve and credited to finance costs in the income statement to offset the currency translation movements in the underlying hedged debt 2011: losses of 54 million.
The Group designates its forward foreign exchange contracts and the intrinsic element of options collars as cash flow hedges of forecast foreign currency sales and purchases.
Gains or losses are released from the hedging reserve and recycled to the income statement in the same period as the hedged item is recognised.
If forecast transactions are no longer expected to occur, any amounts included in the ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 98 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS hedging reserve related to that forecast transaction would be recognised directly in the income statement.
During the current year, gains of 3 million were removed from the hedging reserve and credited to operating expense in the income statement 2011: gains of 2 million.
Gains of 5 million were removed from the hedging reserve and credited to revenue in the income statement 2011: gains of 11 million.
Hedge effectiveness testing is performed quarterly using the dollar-offset approach.
The actual movement in the hedging items is compared with the movement in the valuation of the hypothetically perfect hedge of the underlying risk at inception, and any ineffectiveness is recognised directly in the income statement.
Ineffectiveness of 1 million was recognised in the income statement during the current year 2011: 3 million.
A hedge relationship is deemed to be effective if the ratio of changes in valuation of the underlying hedged item and the hedging instrument is within the range of 80% to 125%.
Any relationship which has a ratio outside this range is deemed to be ineffective, at which point hedge accounting is suspended.
During the year ended 30 June 2012, there were no instances in which the hedge relationship was not highly effective 2011: no instances.
Financial instruments a Carrying value and fair value The accounting classification of each class of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities, together with their fair values, is as follows: Held to Derivatives Derivatives in Total deemed held hedging Loans and Other carrying Total fair maturity Availableinvestments for-sale for trading relationships receivables liabilities value value m m m m m m m m At 30 June 2012 Quoted bond debt 2,338 2,338 2,674 Derivative financial instruments 28 354 382 382 Trade and other payables 1,378 1,378 1,378 Provisions 12 12 12 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 68 68 68 Available-for-sale investments 228 228 228 Trade and other receivables 278 278 278 Short-term deposits 710 710 710 Cash and cash equivalents 464 464 464 At 30 June 2011 Quoted bond debt 2,264 2,264 2,500 Derivative financial instruments 6 212 218 218 Trade and other payables 1,189 1,189 1,189 Provisions 15 15 15 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 69 69 69 Available-for-sale investments 215 215 215 Trade and other receivables 332 332 332 Short-term deposits 430 430 430 Cash and cash equivalents 150 771 921 921 The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and which are traded on active liquid markets is determined with reference to quoted market prices: The fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments: Foreign currency forward contracts and options are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts: Interest rate and cross-currency swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates: and ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 99 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 23.
Derivatives and other financial instruments continued The fair value of obligations under finance leases and other borrowings is estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present value.
The fair value of short-term deposits and cash and cash equivalents is equivalent to carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
The differences between carrying values and fair values reflect unrealised gains or losses inherent in the financial instruments, based on valuations as at 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2011.
The volatile nature of the markets means that values at any subsequent date could be significantly different from the values reported above.
Cash and cash equivalents classified as held to maturity investments comprise money market deposits which have maturity dates of less than three months from inception.
Money market deposits, enhanced return investments and tri-party repurchase agreements which have maturity greater than three months from inception are classified as short-term deposits.
Cash and cash equivalents classified as loans and receivables mainly comprise investments in AAA rated money market funds which can be withdrawn without notice.
b Fair value hierarchy The following table categorises the Groups financial instruments which are held at fair value into 1 of 3 levels to reflect the degree to which observable inputs are used in determining their fair values: Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m At 30 June 2012 Assets measured at fair value Available-for-sale financial instruments ITV investment 223 223 Other investments at cost 5 5 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 141 141 Cross-currency swaps 243 243 Forward foreign exchange and option contracts 30 30 Total 642 223 414 5 Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Cross-currency swaps 28 28 Forward foreign exchange and option contracts 4 4 Total 32 32 At 30 June 2011 Assets measured at fair value Available-for-sale financial instruments ITV investment 215 215 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 95 95 Cross-currency swaps 177 177 Forward foreign exchange and option contracts 14 14 Total 501 215 286 Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Cross-currency swaps 40 40 Forward foreign exchange and option contracts 28 28 Total 68 68 Level 1 Fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 100 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24.
Financial risk management At 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2011, the Groups annual finance Group Treasury activity costs would be unaffected by any change to the Groups credit The Groups Treasury function is responsible for raising finance rating in either direction.
for the Groups operations, together with associated liquidity Interest rate sensitivity management and management of foreign exchange, interest The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based rate and credit risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and a framework of policies and guidelines authorised and reviewed non-derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
by both the Audit Committee and the Board, which receive For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming regular updates of Treasury activity.
Derivative instruments are the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date is transacted for risk management purposes only.
It is the Groups outstanding for the whole year.
policy that all hedging is to cover known risks and no speculative trading is undertaken.
Regular and frequent reporting to For each one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates at management is required for all transactions and exposures, and 30 June 2012, and if all other variables were held constant: the internal control environment is subject to periodic review by the Groups internal audit team.
The Groups profit for the year ended 30 June 2012 would increase or decrease by 4 million 2011: profit for the year The Groups principal market risks are exposures to changes in would increase or decrease by 6 million.
The year on year interest rates and foreign exchange rates, which arise both from decrease is driven by a decrease in the cash balance held.
the Groups sources of finance and its operations.
Following evaluation of those market risks, the Group selectively enters Other equity reserves would decrease or increase by into derivative financial instruments to manage these exposures.
14 million 2011: decrease or increase by 17 million, arising The principal instruments currently used are interest rate swaps from movements in cash flow hedges.
to hedge interest rate risks, and cross-currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and currency options collars to A one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates represents hedge transactional and translational currency exposures.
a large but realistic movement which can easily be multiplied to give sensitivities at different interest rates.
Interest rate risk The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and The Group has financial exposures to both UK and US interest rates, arising primarily from the Groups long-term bonds and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not other borrowings.
The Groups hedging policy requires that necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be between 50% and 75% of borrowings are held at fixed rates.
This experienced because the Groups actual exposure to market is achieved by issuing fixed rate bonds and then using interest rates changes as the Groups portfolio of debt, cash and foreign rate swaps to adjust the balance between fixed and floating rate currency contracts changes.
In addition, the effect of a change debt.
The Groups bank debt is at floating rates, and, when drawn, in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows is means that the mix of fixed and floating rate debt fluctuates calculated without considering interrelationships between the and is therefore managed to ensure compliance with the Groups various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by hedging policy.
At 30 June 2012, 75% of borrowings were held at the Group.
The changes in valuations are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are not a prediction of future fixed rates after hedging 2011: 62%.
events or anticipated gains or losses.
The Group uses derivatives to convert all of its US dollardenominated debt and associated interest rate obligations Foreign exchange risk to pounds sterling see section on foreign exchange risk for A combination of cross-currency and interest rate swap arrangements is used to convert the Groups US dollar further detail.
At 30 June 2012, the Group had no net US dollar denominated debt and associated interest rate obligations denominated interest rate exposure on its borrowings.
to pounds sterling, at fixed exchange rates.
At 30 June 2012, The Group designates its interest rate swaps as fair value hedges the split of the Groups aggregate borrowings into their core of interest rate risk.
Movements in the fair value of the hedged currencies was US dollar 67% and pounds sterling 33% exposure are taken to the income statement and are offset 2011: US dollar 66% and pounds sterling 34%.
At 30 June 2012, by movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments, 100% of the Groups long-term borrowings, after the impact of which are also taken to the income statement.
Any hedge derivatives, are denominated in pounds sterling.
ineffectiveness is recognised directly in the income statement.
The Groups revenues and operating expenses are substantially In the year ended 30 June 2012, this amounted to 1 million denominated in pounds sterling.
A small proportion of operating 2011: 3 million.
expenses is denominated in US dollars, while a small proportion ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 101 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Outstanding commitments to sell, in aggregate, 24.
Financial risk management continued 400 million 2011: 405 million at an average rate of 1.18 of revenues is denominated in Euros.
In the current year, 2011: 1.16. approximately 10% of operating expenses 532 million was denominated in US dollars 2011: approximately 11% 595 million Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, and 6% of revenues was denominated in Euros 2011: 6%.
The US dollar expense relates mainly to the Groups programming contracts with US suppliers, together with US No forward foreign exchange contracts or collars fall due beyond dollar-denominated set-top box costs.
The Euro revenues are five years 2011: none.
primarily due to subscribers located in Ireland.
The Groups exposure to Euro-denominated revenue is offset to a certain The Group designates the following as cash flow hedges for extent by Euro-denominated costs, related mainly to certain hedge accounting purposes: transponder costs: the net position being a Euro surplus 2011: surplus.
The Group has some exposure to the European financial crisis The intrinsic value of collars all other fair value movements although the Groups net euro cash flows are approximately 3% are recognised directly in the income statement.
of total group revenues and the Groups practice is to hold less Cross-currency swaps where interest on both legs is at a fixed than 10 million on deposit in euros.
Whilst some of the Groups interest rate.
syndicate banks are headquartered in Europe, the Group does not currently anticipate drawing the RCF.
To mitigate remaining As such, the effective portion of the gain or loss on these risks, counterparty credit and sovereign ratings are closely contracts is reported as a component of the hedging reserve, monitored, and no more than 10% of cash deposits are held outside the income statement, and is then reclassified to with a single bank counterparty with the exception of overnight the income statement in the same periods that the forecast deposits which are invested in a spread of AAA-rated transactions affect the income statement.
Ineffectiveness of less liquidity funds.
than 1 million was recognised in the income statement during the year 2011: less than 1 million.
The Group hedges currency exposures on US dollar and Euro-denominated highly probable cash flows by using forward During the year, the Group exchanged 3 million for US dollars foreign exchange contracts and options collars purchased up 2011: 55 million and 12 million was exchanged for pounds to five years ahead of the cash flow.
sterling 2011: 7 million on currency spot markets.
It is the Groups policy that all anticipated foreign currency A combination of US dollar denominated interest rate and USD GBP exposures are substantially hedged in advance of the year in cross-currency swaps is used to convert fixed dollar denominated which they occur.
debt to floating sterling denominated debt.
The interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges.
The associated cross-currency At 30 June 2012, the Group had purchased forward foreign swaps are not designated as hedging instruments for hedge exchange contracts and collars representing up to: accounting purposes and, as such, movements in their value are Approximately 85% of US dollar-denominated costs falling recorded directly in the income statement.
due within one year 2011: 90%, and approximately 80% of Foreign exchange sensitivity US dollar-denominated costs falling due within five years The following analyses details the Groups sensitivity to 2011: approximately 80% which are hedged via movements in pounds sterling against those currencies in Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, which it has significant transactions.
The sensitivity analysis US$1,298 million 2011: US$1,456 million at an average rate includes foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of US$1.58 to 1.00 2011: US$1.59 to 1.00. at the balance sheet date and outstanding foreign currency denominated financial instruments and adjusts their translation Collars relating to the purchase of a total of at the period end for a 25% change in foreign currency rates, US$20 million 2011: US$45 million in aggregate.
representing the maximum currency exposure reported to management on a regular basis.
Approximately 75% of net Euro-denominated exposures relating to revenues and transponder costs falling due within A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the US dollar 18 months 2011: approximately 80%, which are hedged via would have the effect of reducing profit by 27 million 2011: reducing profit by 29 million, of which losses of 26 million relate to non-cash movements in the valuation of ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 102 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS derivatives 2011: losses of 29 million.
The same strengthening individual counterparty was less than 18% of the total asset value would have an adverse impact on other equity of 185 million of instruments at the end of the year.
Treasury policies ensure 2011: adverse impact of 185 million.
that all transactions are only effected with strong relationship banks and, at the date of signing, each carried a minimum credit A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would rating of Baa2 or equivalent from Standard & Poors.
have the effect of increasing profit by 45 million 2011: increasing profit by 48 million of which gains of The amount recognised in the income statement in respect of 44 million relate to non-cash movements in the valuation of credit risk for derivatives deemed held for trading is nil 2011: nil.
The same weakening Credit risk in our residential customer base is mitigated by billing would have a beneficial impact on other equity of 309 million and collecting in advance for digital television subscriptions for 2011: beneficial impact of 309 million.
over 99% of our residential customer base.
The Groups maximum A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the Euro exposure to credit risk on trade receivables is the carrying would have the effect of increasing profit by less than 1 million amounts as disclosed in note 19.
None of this amount relates Liquidity risk to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same Our principal source of liquidity is cash generated from strengthening would have a beneficial impact on other equity of operations, combined with access to a 743 million RCF, which 52 million 2011: beneficial impact of 70 million.
expires in October 2016, with the right to request an extension of A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the Euro would have either one or two further years.
At 30 June 2012, this facility was the effect of reducing profit by less than 1 million 2011: reducing undrawn 30 June 2011: undrawn.
None of this amount relates to non-cash To ensure continuity of funding, the Groups policy is to ensure movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same weakening that available funding matures over a period of years.
At would have an adverse impact on other equity of 86 million 30 June 2012, 59% 2011: 59% of the Groups total available 2011: adverse impact of 117 million.
funding including available undrawn amounts on our RCF was The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and due to mature in more than five years.
should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not Full details of the Groups borrowings and undrawn facilities are necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be shown in note 22, other than trade and other payables, shown in experienced because the Groups actual exposure to market note 20, and provisions, shown in note 21. rates is constantly changing as the Groups portfolio of debt, cash and foreign currency contracts changes.
In addition, the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the Group.
The changes in valuations are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
Hedge accounting The interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk sections above outline the Groups policies regarding use of derivative products.
Further detail on valuations and the impact of hedge accounting during the year are provided in note 23. Credit risk The Group is exposed to counterparty default risk amounting to invested cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits, and the positive fair value of derivative financial assets held.
This risk is deemed to be low.
Counterparty risk forms a central part of the Groups Treasury policy, which is monitored and reported on regularly.
The Group manages credit risk by diversifying its exposures across a wide number of counterparties, such that the maximum exposure to any ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 103 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 24.
Financial risk management continued The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities, net settled derivative financial instruments and gross settled financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings, based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
These amounts may not reconcile to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments, provisions and trade and other payables.
Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2012 Non derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 107 107 760 1,433 Bonds GBP 41 41 123 903 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 8 8 24 153 Trade and other payables 1,281 86 11 Provisions 94 1 1 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 32 32 81 28 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 894 391 759 1,255 Inflow 917 397 813 1,408 Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2011 Non derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 104 104 766 1,470 Bonds GBP 41 41 123 933 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 8 8 24 161 Trade and other payables 1,111 72 6 Provisions 86 2 2 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 33 33 94 48 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 885 417 824 1,313 Inflow 871 410 856 1,427 Capital Risk Management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to endeavour to ensure that the Group has the ability to access capital markets when necessary and to optimise liquidity and operating flexibility through the arrangement of new debt, while seeking to minimise the cost of capital.
The Group monitors its liquidity requirements regularly and is satisfied that it has access to sufficient liquidity and operating flexibility to meet its capital requirements.
The Group manages its short and long-term capital structure by seeking to maintain leverage ratios consistent with a long-term investment grade credit rating BBBor better from Standard & Poors and Baa3 or better from Moodys.
The Groups current ratings are BBB Standard & Poors and Baa1 Moodys.
The leverage ratios assessed by these rating agencies are those of Net Debt: EBITDA and Gross Debt: EBITDA.
Net Debt is defined as total borrowings, including the cash flows arising under operating leases and transponder prepayments, less cash and cash equivalents, excluding derivatives.
Gross Debt does not reduce total borrowings by the inclusion of cash and cash equivalents.
The Group is also required to maintain a Net Debt: EBITDA ratio below 3.00:1 under the terms of its RCF.
The RCF definition of Net Debt does not require the inclusion of future operating lease or transponder cash flows.
At 30 June 2012, the Net Debt: EBITDA ratio as defined by the terms of the RCF was 0.6: 1 2011 : 0.6 :1.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 104 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.
Share capital Grants under the Executive Share Option Scheme were made on an annual basis to selected employees, with the exercise price of 2012 2011 m m options being equal to the Companys share price on the date of Allotted, called-up and fully paid shares of 50p grant.
For those options with performance conditions, growth in 1,674,454,881 2011: 1,752,842,599 837 876 EPS had to exceed growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 3% per annum in order for awards to vest.
Options vested on an 2012 2011 accelerated basis over a period of up to four years from the date Number of Number of of grant.
The contractual life of all Executive Share Option Scheme ordinary ordinary shares shares options is ten years.
Allotted and fully paid during the year Beginning of year 1,752,842,599 1,752,842,599 ii Sharesave Scheme options Shares repurchased and All Sharesave Scheme options outstanding at 30 June 2012 and subsequently cancelled 78,387,718 30 June 2011 have no performance criteria attached, other than End of year 1,674,454,881 1,752,842,599 the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme must The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry equal be exercised within six months of the relevant award vesting date.
voting rights and no contractual right to receive payment.
Full details of the Companys share buy-back programme are provided The Sharesave Scheme is open to all employees.
Options are in note 26. normally exercisable after either three or five years from the date of grant.
The price at which options are offered is not less than Share option and contingent share award schemes 80% of the middle-market price on the dealing day immediately The Company operates various equity-settled share option preceding the date of invitation.
It is the policy of the Group to schemes the Schemes for certain employees.
make an invitation to employees to participate in the scheme The number of newly issued shares which may be allocated under following the announcement of the end of year results.
the Schemes on any day shall not, when aggregated with the iii All Employee awards 20 Year Award Plan number of newly issued shares which have been allocated in the The All Employee awards had no performance criteria attached, previous ten years under the Schemes and any other employee other than the requirement that the employee remained in share scheme adopted by the Company, exceed such number employment with the Group until the vesting date on 5 February as represents five percent of the ordinary share capital of the 2012.
The Company granted the All Employee award to all Company in issue immediately prior to that day.
In determining permanent employees on 5 February 2009.
Awards under the this limit no account shall be taken of any newly issued shares scheme were granted in the form of a nil-priced option, and were where the right to acquire the newly issued shares was released, satisfied using market-purchased shares.
lapsed, cancelled or otherwise became incapable of exercise.
Options and awards which will be satisfied by ESOP shares do not iv Management LTIP awards fall within these headroom limits.
All Management LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2011 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards The share awards outstanding can be summarised as follows: granted under the Management LTIP must be exercised within 2012 2011 five years of the relevant award vesting date.
Number of Number of ordinary ordinary The Company grants awards to selected employees under the shares shares Management LTIP.
Awards under this scheme mirror the LTIP, i Executive Share Option Scheme options 2,630,435 5,583,424 ii with the same performance conditions.
Awards exercised under Sharesave Scheme options 7,238,348 6,554,165 iii the Management LTIP can only be satisfied by the issue of All Employee awards 1,168,200 iv Management LTIP awards 15,018,148 22,326,138 market-purchased shares.
v LTIP awards 6,462,723 8,610,930 vi Management Co-Investment LTIP awards 1,869,416 1,268,260 v LTIP awards vii Co-Investment LTIP awards 1,953,013 1,286,906 All LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2011 35,172,083 46,798,023 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant i Executive Share Option Scheme options award vesting date.
All Executive Share Option Scheme options outstanding at 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2011 have vested.
No options have The Company operates the LTIP for Executive Directors and been granted under the scheme since 2004.
Awards under the scheme are granted in the form of a nil-priced option, and are satisfied using marketANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 105 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 25.
Share capital continued purchased shares.
The awards vest in full or in part dependent on the satisfaction of specified performance targets.
For awards made in 2008 and 2009 i. e. awards that vested in 2011, 30% of the award vested dependent on TSR performance over a three year performance period, relative to the constituents of the FTSE 100 at the time of grant, and the remaining 70% vested dependent on performance against operational targets.
The TSR performance targets are not applicable to awards made since July 2010 but will be re-introduced for awards granted from July 2012 onwards.
vi Management Co-Investment LTIP awards All Management Co-Investment LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2011 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the Management Co-Investment LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company grants awards to selected employees under the Management Co-Investment LTIP.
Awards under this scheme mirror the Co-Investment LTIP, with the same performance conditions.
vii Co-Investment LTIP awards All Co-Investment LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2011 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the Co-Investment LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company operates the Co-Investment LTIP award for Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
Employees who participate in the plan are granted a conditional award of shares based on the amount they have invested in the Group.
The investment will be matched up to a maximum of 1.5 shares for every share invested, subject to a three-year EPS performance condition.
For the purposes of the disclosure below, the Sharesave Scheme options and All Employee awards Sharesave Schemes and the Management LTIP, LTIP, Management Co-Investment LTIP and Co-Investment LTIP awards Senior Management Schemes have been aggregated.
For those exercised under the Executive Scheme it was 7.19 2011: 7.99, for those exercised under the Sharesave Schemes it was 6.89 2011: 7.54, and for those exercised under the Senior Management Schemes it was 7.03 2011: 7.08.
The middle-market closing price of the Companys shares at 29 June 2012 was 6.97 1 July 2011: 8.49.
The following table summarises information about share awards outstanding at 30 June 2012: Senior Management Executive Scheme Sharesave Schemes Schemes Total Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average remaining remaining remaining remaining contractual contractual contractual contractual life life life life Range of exercise prices Number Years Number Years Number Years Number Years 0.00 1.00 25,303,300 6.0 25,303,300 6.0 3.00 4.00 578,155 1.6 578,155 1.6 4.00 5.00 1,597,612 1.6 1,597,612 1.6 5.00 6.00 1,318,767 1.6 5,062,581 3.6 6,381,348 3.2 6.00 7.00 1,310,170 1.1 1,310,170 1.1 7.00 8.00 1,498 1.7 1,498 1.7 2,630,435 1.4 7,238,348 3.0 25,303,300 6.0 35,172,083 5.0 ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 107 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 25.
Share capital continued The following table summarises information about share awards outstanding at 30 June 2011: Senior Management Executive Scheme Sharesave Schemes Schemes Total Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average remaining remaining remaining remaining contractual contractual contractual contractual life life life life Years Number Years Number Years Range of exercise prices Number Years Number 0.00 1.00 1,168,200 0.6 33,492,234 1.9 34,660,434 1.9 3.00 4.00 2,348,795 1.5 2,348,795 1.5 4.00 5.00 1,926,019 2.4 1,926,019 2.4 5.00 6.00 1,802,435 2.5 2,279,351 3.8 4,081,786 3.2 6.00 7.00 1,537,964 2.1 1,537,964 2.1 7.00 8.00 2,243,025 0.3 2,243,025 0.3 5,583,424 1.5 7,722,365 2.3 33,492,234 1.9 46,798,023 2.0 The range of exercise prices of the awards outstanding at 30 June 2012 was between nil and 7.16 2011: nil and 7.94.
For those awards outstanding under the Executive Scheme it was between 5.03 and 7.16 2011: 5.03 and 7.94 : for those outstanding under the Sharesave Schemes it was between 3.72 and 5.65 2011: nil and 5.65 and for all awards outstanding under the Senior Management Schemes the exercise price was nil 2011: nil.
The following table summarises additional information about the awards exercisable at 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2011: 2012 2011 Average Average remaining remaining contractual Weighted contractual Weighted Options life of average Options life of average exercisable exercisable exercise exercisable exercisable exercise at 30 June options price at 30 June options price Executive Scheme 2,630,435 1.4 5.84 5,583,424 1.5 6.65 Sharesave Schemes 160,403 0.1 3.80 72,812 0.1 5.24 Senior Management Schemes 1,258,950 4.1 0.00 4,049,788 2.2 3.95 5,656,236 1.5 6.64 Information for awards granted during the year The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share options granted during the year, as estimated at the date of grant, was 5.39 2011: 5.95.
This was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model except for grants of nil-priced options, which were treated as the award of a free share.
The fair value of nil-priced options granted during the year was measured on the basis of the market-price of the Companys shares on the date of grant, discounted for expected dividends which would not be received over the vesting period of the options.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price, over a period equal to the expected life of the options.
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
i Sharesave Schemes The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share awards granted during the year under the Sharesave Schemes, as estimated at the date of grant, was 1.87 2011: 1.91.
This was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating these fair values: 2012 2011 Share price 6.88 7.09 Exercise price 5.08 5.65 Expected volatility 28.6% 28.1% Expected life 4.5 years 4.6 years Expected dividends 3.4% 2.7% Risk-free interest rate 1.0% 1.5% ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 108 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ii Senior Management Schemes The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share awards granted during the year under the Senior Management Schemes, as estimated at the date of grant, was 6.56 2011: 6.59.
The fair value of awards granted as nil-priced options were treated as the award of a free share.
For all other awards, fair value was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating these fair values: 2012 2011 Share price 7.04 7.11 Exercise price 0.00 0.00 Expected life 2.1 years 3.0 years Expected dividends 3.3% 2.5% 26.
Shareholders equity 2012 2011 m m Share capital 837 876 Share premium 1,437 1,437 ESOP reserve 112 107 Hedging reserve 68 14 Available-for-sale reserve 165 157 Other reserves 399 358 Retained earnings 1,850 1,700 944 1,035 Share premium and special reserve On 10 December 2003, the High Court approved a reduction in the Companys share premium account of 1,120 million, as approved by the Companys shareholders at the AGM held on 14 November 2003.
This amount was equal to the Company-only profit and loss account reserve deficit at 30 June 2003.
As part of the application, the Companys balance sheet at 30 September 2003 was required to be presented.
At that date, the deficit on the Company-only profit and loss account reserve had reduced by 14 million since 30 June 2003, to 1,106 million.
As a condition of the reduction, the reduction in the share premium account of 1,120 million was permitted to be offset against the profit and loss account reserve by the amount of the deficit at 30 September 2003.
The excess of 14 million was credited to a special reserve, which is included in other reserves, and, under the terms of the reduction, will remain undistributable until all the creditors of the Company and its guarantors as at 10 December 2003 are paid.
Merger reserve The merger reserve, which is included in other reserves, represents amounts deducted from equity of 222 million 2011: 222 million.
The merger reserve was created as a result of the purchase by the Group of interests in two entities.
SIG was purchased on 12 July 2000, where consideration was paid by the issue of equity shares in the Group.
BiB was purchased between 28 June 2001 and 11 November 2002, where consideration was paid by the issue of equity shares in the Group.
The merger reserve was created in accordance with the merger relief provisions under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended and section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the accounting for business combinations involving the issue of shares at a premium.
Merger relief provided relief from the requirement to create a share premium account in a parent companys balance sheet.
In preparing consolidated financial statements, the amount by which the fair value of the shares issued exceeded their nominal value was recorded within a merger reserve on consolidation, rather than in a share premium account.
This merger reserve was retained upon transition to IFRS, as allowed under UK law.
Purchase of own equity shares for cancellation On 29 November 2011, the Companys shareholders approved a resolution the November 2011 resolution at the AGM for the Company to return 750 million of capital to shareholders via a share buy-back programme.
The Company has entered into an agreement with News Corporation under which, following any market purchases of shares by the Company, News Corporation will sell to the Company sufficient shares to maintain its percentage shareholding at the same level as applied prior to those market purchases.
The price payable to News Corporation is the price payable by the Company in respect of the relevant market purchases.
The effect of the agreement is to provide that there will be no change in News Corporations economic or voting interests in the Company as a result of the share buy-back programme.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 109 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 26.
Shareholders equity continued During the year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 78,387,718 ordinary shares at an average price of 6.92 per share, with a nominal value of 39 million, for a total consideration of 546 million.
Consideration included stamp duty and commission of 3 million.
This represents 4% of called-up share capital at the beginning of the period.
Of these purchases, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 30,679,157 ordinary shares from News Corporation at an average price of 6.92 per share, with a nominal value of 15 million, for a consideration of 213 million.
Consideration included stamp duty of 1 million.
The following table provides information about purchases of equity shares by the company, including purchases by the Groups ESOP, during the fiscal year.
Capital Total capital returned authorised to be Average as part of the returned under Total number price paid November 2011 the November 2011 of shares per share resolution resolution i i Period purchased m m July August 12,044,959 7.14 September October November 1,140,971 7.52 9 741 December 10,575,756 7.36 78 663 January 663 February 21,943,653 6.92 143 520 March 11,087,157 6.90 77 443 April 11,208,038 6.63 74 369 May 13,883,329 6.93 96 273 June 19,666,754 6.72 66 207 Total for the year ended 30 June 2012 101,550,617 6.93 543 207 i All share purchases are included in the month of settlement.
ESOP reserve The cost of the Companys ordinary shares held by the Groups ESOP is treated as a deduction in arriving at total shareholders equity.
The movement in the ESOP reserve was as follows: Number of Average ordinary price paid shares per share m At 1 July 2010 8,515,344 5.56 47 Share options exercised during the year 5,697,622 5.37 30 Shares purchased by the ESOP during the year 11,014,887 8.21 90 At 30 June 2011 13,832,609 7.75 107 Share options exercised during the year 20,702,163 7.55 156 Shares purchased by the ESOP during the year 23,162,899 6.93 161 At 30 June 2012 16,293,345 6.85 112 Hedging reserve Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges are initially recognised in the hedging reserve, and subsequently recognised in the income statement when the related hedged items are recognised in the income statement.
In addition, deferred taxation relating to these derivatives is also initially recognised in the hedging reserve prior to transfer to the income statement.
Available-for-sale reserve Available-for-sale investments are carried at fair value where this can be reliably measured, with movements in the fair value recognised directly in the available-for-sale reserve.
At 30 June 2012, the Groups available-for-sale reserve was 165 million 2011: 157 million.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 110 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other reserves The Groups other reserves include a capital redemption reserve, a merger reserve, a foreign currency translation reserve and a special reserve.
The capital redemption reserve was 134 million as at 30 June 2012 2011: 95 million.
The merger reserve was 222 million as at 30 June 2012 2011: 222 million.
The special reserve was 14 million as at 30 June 2012 2011: 14 million.
The foreign currency translation reserve was 29 million as at 30 June 2012 2011: 27 million.
Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Reconciliation of profit before taxation from continuing operations to cash generated from continuing operations 2012 2011 m m Profit before taxation 1,189 1,014 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 179 173 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 165 159 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment 9 Share-based payment expense 66 69 Net finance costs 93 102 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 39 34 1,653 1,474 Increase in trade and other receivables 32 59 Increase decrease in inventories 81 6 Increase in trade and other payables 175 158 Increase decrease in provisions 25 8 Decrease in derivative financial instruments 3 2 Cash generated from continuing operations 1,737 1,569 28.
Contracted commitments, contingencies and guarantees a Future minimum expenditure contracted for but not recognised in the financial statements Year Year Year Year Year ending ending ending ending ending Total at Total at 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June After 5 30 June 30 June 2012 2011 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 years m m m m m m m m i Television programme rights 1,217 1,266 1,227 1,015 221 156 5,102 2,922 Set-top boxes and related equipment 182 182 282 ii Third party payments 69 44 41 38 18 210 73 iii Transponder capacity 87 77 78 74 70 297 683 838 Property, plant and equipment 27 27 47 iv Intangible assets 37 22 19 20 20 26 144 142 iv Smartcards 43 43 44 45 45 56 276 360 Other 181 71 40 13 9 23 337 227 1,843 1,523 1,449 1,205 383 558 6,961 4,891 Foreign currency commitments are translated to pounds sterling at the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
i At 30 June 2012, the Group had minimum television programming rights commitments of 5,102 million 2011: 2,922 million, of which 376 million 2011: 344 million related to commitments payable in US dollars for periods of up to six years 2011: seven years.
Assuming that movie subscriber numbers remain unchanged from current levels, an additional 420 million US$652 million of commitments 2011: 455 million US$735 million would also be payable in US dollars, relating to price escalator clauses.
The pound sterling television programme rights commitments include similar price escalation clauses that would result in additional commitments of 9 million 2011: 18 million if subscriber numbers were to remain at current levels.
ii The third party payment commitments are in respect of distribution agreements for the television channels owned and broadcast by third parties, retailed by the Group to retail and commercial subscribers Sky Distributed Channels and are for periods of up to five years 2011: five years.
The extent of the commitment is largely dependent upon the number of retail subscribers to the relevant Sky Distributed Channels, and in certain cases, upon inflationary increases.
If both the retail subscriber levels to these channels and the rate payable for each Sky Distributed Channel were to remain at current levels subject to inflationary increases, the additional commitment would be 463 million 2011: 525 million.
iii Transponder capacity commitments are in respect of the Astra, Eutelsat and Telenor Satellite Broadcasting AS satellites that the Group uses for digital transmissions to both retail subscribers and cable operators.
The commitments are for periods of up to thirteen years 2011: fourteen years.
iv The Group has a contractual agreement with NDS, a related party, for the provision of smartcards.
Smartcards under development are included within intangible assets.
The amounts included above are the expected ongoing smartcard costs based on forecast customer levels.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 111 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 28.
Contracted commitments, contingencies and guarantees continued b Contingencies and guarantees Certain subsidiaries of the Company have agreed to provide additional funding to several of their investments in limited and unlimited companies and partnerships, in accordance with funding agreements.
Payment of this additional funding would be required if requested by the investees in accordance with the funding agreements.
The maximum potential amount of future payments which may be required to be made by the subsidiaries of the Company to their investments, in both limited and unlimited companies and partnerships under the undertakings and additional funding agreements, is 30 million 2011: 38 million.
The Group has guarantees in place relating to the Groups borrowings, see note 22.
Operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable operating leases at 30 June are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Within one year 49 45 Between one and two years 39 33 Between two and three years 32 24 Between three and four years 27 17 Between four and five years 20 14 After five years 59 54 226 187 The majority of operating leases relate to property.
The rents payable under these leases are subject to renegotiation at the various intervals specified in the leases.
The minimum sub-lease rentals to be received under non-cancellable operating sub-leases at 30 June are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Within one year 65 Between one and two years 35 Between two and three years 23 Between three and four years 22 Between four and five years 22 After five years 68 21 25 Sub-lease rentals primarily relate to property leases.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 112 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30.
Transactions with related parties and major b Joint ventures and associates shareholders Transactions between the Group and its subsidiaries, which are a Entities with joint control or significant influence related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are The Group conducts business transactions with companies that not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and are part of the News Corporation group News Corporation, its joint ventures and associates are disclosed below.
a major shareholder: Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are disclosed in the Companys separate 2012 2011 m m financial statements.
Supply of goods or services by the Group 79 49 Purchases of goods or services by the Group 199 216 2012 2011 Amounts owed by News Corporation to m m the Group 12 10 Supply of services by the Group 24 23 Amounts owed to News Corporation by Purchases of goods or services by the Group 67 57 the Group 98 74 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates to the Group 15 23 At 30 June 2012 the Group had expenditure commitments of Amounts owed to joint ventures and 462 million 2011: 567 million with News Corporation associates by the Group 10 5 companies of which 58 million 2011: 76 million related to Services supplied are primarily the provision of transponder minimum television programming rights commitments and capacity, marketing, airtime sales and support services.
404 million 2011: 491 million related to expected ongoing Purchases represent fees payable for channel carriage.
owed by joint ventures and associates include 7 million 2011: 16 million relating to loan funding.
These loans bear Goods and services supplied to News Corporation interest at rates of six month LIBOR plus 1.5% and one month and During the year, the Group supplied set-top boxes, programming, six month LIBOR plus 1%.
The maximum amount of loan funding airtime, transmission, marketing, consultancy services, customer outstanding in total from joint ventures and associates during relationship management services and a licence to use the Sky brand to News Corporation.
the year was 16 million 2011: 17 million.
The Group took out a number of forward exchange contracts Purchases of goods and services and certain other relationships with counterparty banks during the year on behalf of the with News Corporation joint ventures AETN UK and Sky News Arabia FZ LLC.
On the During the year, the Group purchased programming, digital equipment, smartcards and encryption services, set-top box same dates as these forward contracts were entered into, the technologies, advertising and IT services from News Corporation Group entered into equal and opposite contracts with the joint companies.
ventures in respect of these forward contracts.
Consequently, the Group was not exposed to any of the net gains News Corporation has entered into an agreement with the Group or losses on these forward contracts.
The face value of forward pursuant to which it has been agreed that, for so long as News Corporation directly or indirectly holds an interest of 30% or more exchange contracts with AETN UK that had not matured as at in the Group, News Corporation will not engage in the business of 30 June 2012 was 2 million 2011: 2 million.
satellite broadcasting in the UK or Ireland.
During the year, US$3 million 2011: US$4 million was paid to the joint ventures upon maturity of forward exchange contracts and On 13 July 2011, News Corporation announced that it no longer intended to make an offer for the entire issued and to be issued US$14 million 2011: less than US$1 million was received from joint share capital of the Company not already owned by News ventures upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
A break fee of 39 million was received during the During the year, 2 million 2011: 3 million was received from the year which exceeded all of the Groups direct costs associated joint ventures upon maturity of forward exchange contracts, and with the proposal.
7 million 2011: less than 1 million was paid to the joint ventures Share buy-back programme upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
During the year, the Company purchased, and subsequently During the year, no euro amounts were received from the joint cancelled, 30,679,157 ordinary shares held by News Corporation ventures upon maturity of forward exchange contracts 2011: as part of its share buy-back programme.
For further details, see 1 million and 2 million 2011: nil was paid to the joint ventures note 26. upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 113 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 30.
Transactions with related parties and major shareholders continued At 30 June 2012 the Group had minimum expenditure commitments of 1 million 2011: 3 million with its joint ventures and associates.
c Other transactions with related parties A close family member of one Director of the Company runs Freud Entertainment Limited Freud, which has provided external support to the press and publicity activities of the Group.
During the year the Group incurred expenditure amounting to 1 million 2011: 2 million with Freud.
At 30 June 2012 there was less than 1 million 2011: 1 million due to Freud.
During the prior year, a close family member of one Director of the Company who served during the prior year had a controlling interest in Shine in which the Group also had an equity shareholding, until Shine was acquired by News Corporation on 5 April 2011 see note 5.
Shine continues to be a related party of the Group and transactions with Shine are included within the balances disclosed in note 30a.
In addition to the foregoing, the Group has engaged in a number of transactions with companies of which some of the Companys Directors are also directors.
These do not meet the definition of Related Party Transactions.
d Key management The Group has a related party relationship with the Directors of the Group.
At 30 June 2012, there were 14 2011: 14 members of key management all of whom were Directors of the Company.
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 7b.
Events after the reporting period On 25 July 2012, the Board agreed to seek the necessary approvals to return a further 500 million of capital to shareholders via a share buy-back programme.
Shareholder approvals will be sought at the Companys AGM on 1 November 2012.
The price payable to News Corporation will be the price payable by the Company in respect of the relevant market purchases.
The agreement is conditional on the appropriate shareholder approvals being granted.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 114 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32.
Group investments The significant investments of the Company which principally affect the consolidated results and total assets of the Group are as follows: Name Country of Description and proportion of incorporation shares held % Principal activity Subsidiaries: Direct holdings of the Company British Sky Broadcasting Limited England and Wales 10,002,002 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Operation of pay television broadcasting and home communications services in the UK and Ireland BSkyB Finance UK plc England and Wales 50,000 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Finance company BSkyB Telecommunications Limited England and Wales 1,000 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Management of the network assets in the UK Subsidiaries: Indirect holdings of the Company Sky Subscribers Services Limited England and Wales 3 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Provision of ancillary functions supporting the pay television broadcasting, residential broadband and telephone operations of the Group Sky Holdings Limited England and Wales 600 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Holding company Sky In-Home Service Limited England and Wales 1,576,000 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Supply, installation and maintenance of satellite television receiving equipment BSkyB LLU Assets Limited England and Wales 121,309,090 ordinary shares of 0.04 each 100% Parent of companies managing the network assets in the UK Sky Network Services Limited England and Wales 2 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Management of the network assets in the UK BSkyB Telecommunications England and Wales 5,821,764 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Management of the network assets in the UK Services Limited Sky Ventures Limited England and Wales 912 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Holding company The Cloud Networks Limited England and Wales 30,583,988 shares of 0.00025 per share 100% Provision of telecommunications Hestview Limited England and Wales 108 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Provision of sports betting activities Bonne Terre Limited Guernsey 2,504 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Provision of gaming activities Joint ventures and associates: i Nickelodeon UK Limited England and Wales 104 B Shares of 0.01 each 40% Transmission of childrens television channels AETN UK England and Wales 50,000 A Shares of 1 each 50% Transmission of history, biography, crime and investigation television programming i ii Paramount UK Partnership England and Wales Partnership interest 25% Transmission of general entertainment comedy channels Australian News Channel Pty Australia 1 ordinary share of AUD$1 33.33% Transmission of news and business channels Limited NGC Network International LLC United States of Partnership interest 21% Transmission of natural history and adventure America channels NGC Network Latin America LLC United States of Partnership interest 21% Transmission of natural history and adventure America channels MUTV Limited England and Wales 800 B Shares of 1 each 33.33% Transmission, production and marketing of the Manchester United football channel England and Wales 1,500 ordinary shares of 1 each 45.85%, Transmission of a horse racing channel and Attheraces Holdings i 20 Recoupment Shares of 0.01 each related online activities Limited England and Wales 50 ordinary shares of 1 each 50% Transmission of classic movies in HD MGM Channel UK Limited Sky News Arabia United Arab 16,666,666 shares of US$1 each 50% Transmission of Arabic News in the MENA Emirates region Middle East and North Africa Investments: i ITV England and Wales 291,684,730 ordinary shares of 0.10 each Transmission of free-to-air channels 7.499999965% Notes i These entities have an accounting reference date of 31 December.
ii The registered address of Paramount UK Partnership is 180 Oxford Street, London, W1D 1DS.
The Paramount UK Partnership is a joint venture of the Group and is included within the consolidated accounts in accordance with Note 1 c ii.
Consequently, the Paramount UK Partnership has taken advantage of the exemption within the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 regulation 7 from filing annual financial statements.
iii This note sets out an abbreviated list of the subsidiaries of the Company.
A full list had been filed with Companies House in accordance with section 410 of the Companies Act 2006.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 115 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 33.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company only financial statements COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT for the year ended 30 June 2012 2012 2011 Notes m m Revenue 200 192 Operating expense 20 28 Operating profit 180 164 Dividend income from subsidiaries O 874 3,445 Investment income B56 63 Finance costs B 63 65 Impairment of investment E 1,829 Profit before tax C 1,047 1,778 Taxation D 45 38 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 1,002 1,740 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this income statement.
COMPANY STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME for the year ended 30 June 2012 2012 2011 m m Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 1,002 1,740 Other comprehensive income Amounts recognised directly in equity Gain loss on cash flow hedges 12 23 Tax on cash flow hedges 3 6 9 17 Amounts reclassified and reported in the income statement Loss gain on cash flow hedges 8 27 Tax on cash flow hedges 2 7 6 20 Other comprehensive income for the year net of tax 33 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders 1,005 1,743 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement of comprehensive income.
All results relate to continuing operations.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 116 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY BALANCE SHEET as at 30 June 2012 2012 2011 Notes m m Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries E8,272 8,056 Other receivables G3 6 Derivative financial assets J384 272 8,659 8,334 Current assets Other receivables G 1,652 1,406 Cash and cash equivalents 14 1,653 1,410 Total assets 10,312 9,744 Current liabilities Other payables I2,774 2,256 Non-current liabilities Borrowings H1,211 1,154 Derivative financial liabilities J220 181 Deferred tax liabilities F33 1,434 1,338 Total liabilities 4,208 3,594 Share capital 837 876 Share premium 1,437 1,437 Reserves 3,830 3,837 Total equity attributable to equity shareholders 6,104 6,150 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 10,312 9,744 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this balance sheet.
These financial statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, registered number 2247735, have been approved by the Board of Directors on 25 July 2012 and were signed on its behalf by: Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT for the year ended 30 June 2012 2012 2011 Notes m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations M Net cash from operating activities Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from the exercise of share options 10 32 Loan to subsidiaries 13 28 Net cash used in from financing activities 3 4 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 3 4 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 4 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 14 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this cash flow statement.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 117 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 33.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company only financial statements continued COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended 30 June 2012 Capital Total Share Share Special redemption Capital ESOP Hedging Retained Shareholders capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity m m m m m m m m m At 1 July 2010 876 1,437 14 95 844 47 1,530 4,749 Profit for the year 1,740 1,740 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 4 4 Tax on items taken directly to equity 1 1 Total comprehensive income for the year 3 1,740 1,743 Share-based payment 60 71 11 Dividends 353 353 At 30 June 2011 876 1,437 14 95 844 107 3 2,988 6,150 Profit for the year 1,002 1,002 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 4 4 Tax on items taken directly to equity 1 1 Total comprehensive income for the year 3 1,002 1,005 Share-based payment 5 80 85 Share buy-back programme see note 26 : Purchase of own shares for cancellation 39 39 546 546 Financial liability for close period purchases 10 10 Dividends 410 410 At 30 June 2012 837 1,437 14 134 844 112 6 2,944 6,104 For a description of the nature and purpose of each equity reserve, see note L. The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement of changes in equity.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 118 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A.
Accounting policies C. Profit before taxation British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company is a limited Employee benefits liability company incorporated in England and Wales, and domiciled The Company had no employees 2011: nil during the year.
Key management compensation i Basis of preparation Amounts paid to the Directors of the Company are disclosed in The Company financial statements have been prepared in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 54-63. accordance with IFRS, consistent with the accounting policies set D. Taxation out in note 1 of the Companys consolidated financial statements.
i Taxation recognised in the income statement ii Revenue 2012 2011 m m Revenue, which excludes value added tax, represents gross inflow Current tax expense of economic benefit from the Companys operating activities.
Current year 46 43 Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration Adjustment in respect of prior years 7 received or receivable.
The Companys main source of revenue is Total current tax charge 46 36 from licensing the Companys brand name asset to subsidiaries.
Deferred tax expense This revenue is recognised on an accruals basis under the terms Origination and reversal of temporary of relevant licensing agreements.
differences 3 2 Adjustment in respect of prior years 4 Total deferred tax credit charge 1 2 iii Investment in subsidiaries Taxation 45 38 An investment in a subsidiary is recognised at cost less any provision for impairment.
As permitted by section 133 of the Companies Act ii Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 2006, where the relief afforded under section 131 of the Companies 2012 2011 Act 2006 applies, cost is the aggregate of the nominal value of m m the relevant number of the Companys shares and the fair value of Deferred tax charge on hedging activities 1 1 any other consideration given to acquire the share capital of the subsidiary undertakings.
iii Reconciliation of effective tax rate The tax expense for the year is lower 2011: lower than the B.
Investment income and finance costs expense that would have been charged using the standard rate 2012 2011 of corporation tax in the UK 25.5% applied to profit before tax.
m m The applicable enacted or substantively enacted effective rate Investment income of UK corporation tax for the year was 25.5% 2011: 27.5%.
The Investment income from subsidiaries 56 63 differences are explained below: 2012 2011 m m 2012 2011 m m Finance costs Profit before tax 1,047 1,778 Interest payable and similar charges Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate of Revolving Credit Facility RCF 8 6 corporation tax in the UK of 25.5% 2011: 27.5% 267 489 Guaranteed Notes see note H 67 68 Effects of: 75 74 Non-taxable income 224 947 Other finance income expense Non-deductible expenditure 6 503 Remeasurement of borrowings and Over provision in respect of prior years 4 7 borrowings-related derivative financial Taxation 45 38 instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 12 8 All taxation relates to UK corporation tax.
Gain loss arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 42 1 Loss gain arising on adjustment for hedged item in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 42 2 12 9 63 65 ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 119 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 33.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company only G. Other receivables financial statements continued 2012 2011 m m E. Investments in subsidiaries Amounts receivable from subsidiaries 1,652 1,406 m Current other receivables 1,652 1,406 Cost Non-current prepayment 3 6 At 1 July 2010 5,727 Total other receivables 1,655 1,412 Additions 5,163 Impairment 1,829 On 5 March 2009, the Company made a loan of 694 million to At 30 June 2011 9,061 British Sky Broadcasting Limited which is repayable on demand Additions 703 and bears interest at a rate of 6 month LIBOR plus 0.75%.
In Disposal 487 October 2009, the Company assigned 604 million of this loan to At 30 June 2012 9,277 Provision settle payables with BSkyB Finance Limited.
At 1 July 2010, 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2012 1,005 Carrying amounts On 13 January 2009, the Company made a loan of 252 million At 1 July 2010 4,722 to British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
This loan bears interest at a At 30 June 2011 8,056 rate of 6 month LIBOR plus 1.00% and is repayable on demand.
At 30 June 2012 8,272 On 13 January 2009, the Company made a loan of 91 million to During the year, the Company transferred its investment in Sky In-Home Service Limited.
This loan is repayable on demand British Interactive Broadcasting Holdings Limited to its subsidiary and bears interest at a rate of 6 month LIBOR plus 1.00%.
Following this transfer, British Interactive Broadcasting Holdings Limited was put into On 24 November 2008, the Company issued US$600 million liquidation.
Guranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 9.5% and loaned the proceeds to BSkyB Finance Limited.
BSkyB Finance Limited pays During the prior year, the Company purchased the assets the same annual effective interest rate to the Company.
and liabilities of BSkyB Investments Limited which included its investment of 5,150 million in British Sky Broadcasting On 29 June 2008, the Company entered into loan agreements Limited.
As a result of this transaction, the Company now holds with British Sky Broadcasting Limited for 143 million and 109 100% of the share capital of British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
million, both bearing interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus Following this purchase, BSkyB Investments Limited was put 0.75%.
These loans are repayable on demand.
The Company recognised an impairment of On 29 June 2008, Sky Ventures Limited transferred its 11 million 1,805 million for its investment in BSkyB Investments Limited.
loan receivable from BSkyB Finance Limited to the Company.
This See note 32 for a list of significant investments of the Company.
loan bears interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75% and is repayable on demand.
F. Deferred tax Recognised deferred tax liabilities On 29 June 2008, the Company entered into a RCF with BSkyB Finance Limited worth 40 million.
Amounts loaned under this Financial facility bear interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75% and is instruments temporary repayable on demand.
differences m On 15 February 2008, the Company issued US$750 million At 30 June 2010 Guaranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 6.100% and loaned Charge to income 2 the proceeds to British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
British Sky Charge to equity 1 Broadcasting Limited pays the same annual effective interest At 30 June 2011 3 Credit to income 1 rate to the Company.
Charge to equity 1 At 30 June 2012 3 All other amounts receivable from subsidiaries are non-interest bearing and are also repayable on demand.
At 30 June 2012, a deferred tax asset of 299 million 2011: 324 million has not been recognised in respect of potential The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other capital losses related to the Groups holding of KirchPayTV, on receivables approximates their fair values.
the basis that utilisation of these temporary differences is not probable.
At 30 June 2012, the Company has also not recognised a deferred tax asset of 8 million 2011: 1 million relating to capital losses and provisions in respect of football club investments, on the basis that it is not probable that they will be utilised.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 120 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Companys credit risk is primarily attributable to its other receivables.
The majority of its other receivables balance is due from British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
The risk of this entity defaulting on amounts owed is considered low due to its successful operation of pay television broadcasting and home communications services in the UK and Ireland.
H. Borrowings 2012 2011 m m Non-current borrowings US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 495 476 US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 420 383 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 296 295 1,211 1,154 See note 22 for details of the Companys Guaranteed Notes and RCF and note 24 for details of Capital Risk Management.
Other payables 2012 2011 m m Other payables Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 2,746 2,238 Amounts owed to other related parties 4 Other 6 Accruals 18 18 2,774 2,256 Amounts payable to subsidiaries are non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
The balance comprises 1,271 million of non-interest bearing loans 2011: 725 million and 1,475 million of other payables 2011: 1,513 million.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other payables approximates their fair values.
J. Derivatives and other financial instruments Fair values Set out below is a comparison of the carrying values and the estimated fair values of the Companys financial assets and financial liabilities at 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2011: 2012 2012 2011 2011 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value m m m m Financial assets and liabilities held or issued to finance the Companys operations Quoted bond debt 1,211 1,411 1,154 1,317 Derivative financial instruments 164 164 91 91 Other payables and receivables 1,122 1,122 850 850 The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as detailed in note 23 and all items held at fair value are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 121 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 33.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company only financial statements continued Set out below are the derivative financial instruments entered into by the Company to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
2012 2011 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 87 494 46 481 Cash flow hedges Cross-currency swaps 80 290 65 290 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Interest rate swaps 54 479 54 459 49 331 49 331 Cross-currency swaps 163 724 166 1,017 112 724 132 1,017 Total 384 1,987 220 1,476 272 1,826 181 1,348 Note 23 provides further details of the Groups derivative and other financial instruments.
The maturity of the derivative financial instruments is shown below: 2012 2011 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m Between two and five years 99 99 86 86 In more than five years 285 121 186 95 Total 384 220 272 181 K. Financial risk management Interest rate and foreign exchange risk management The Company manages its exposure to interest rates and foreign exchange movements, which arise from the Companys sources of finance by selectively entering into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure.
The Company has also entered into derivative contracts on behalf of its subsidiary BSkyB Finance UK plc, and has back-to-back intercompany contracts.
Foreign exchange risk The following analysis details the Companys sensitivity to movements in pounds sterling against all currencies in which it has significant transactions.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated financial instruments and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 25% change in foreign currency rates, representing the maximum currency exposure reported to management on a regular basis.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have an adverse impact on profit of 26 million 2011: adverse impact of 27 million, relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same strengthening would have an adverse impact on other equity of 21 million 2011: adverse impact of 15 million.
A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have a beneficial impact on profit of 43 million 2011: beneficial impact of 45 million, relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same weakening would have a beneficial impact on other equity of 34 million 2011: beneficial impact of 25 million.
Interest rate risk The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
For each one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates at 30 June 2012, and if all other variables were held constant, the Companys profit for the year ended 30 June 2012 would decrease or increase by 3 million 2011: decrease or increase by 3 million and other equity reserves would decrease or increase by 4 million 2011: decrease or increase by 5 million.
A one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates represents a large but realistic movement which can easily be multiplied to give sensitivities at different interest rates.
The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 122 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the Company.
In addition, the Companys actual exposure to market rates changes as the Companys portfolio of debt changes.
Liquidity risk See note 24 for the Companys policy on liquidity management.
The following table analyses the Companys non-derivative financial liabilities, net settled interest rate swaps and gross settled currency swaps and collars into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
These amounts may not reconcile to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments and other payables.
Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2012 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 65 65 195 938 Bonds GBP 18 18 54 480 Other payables 2,774 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 18 18 56 25 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 50 50 149 840 Inflow 47 47 140 913 Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2011 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 63 63 189 976 Bonds GBP 18 18 54 498 Other payables 2,256 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 18 18 56 44 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 49 49 146 887 Inflow 45 45 134 931 At 30 June 2012, the Company had an undrawn 743 million RCF with a maturity date of 31 October 2016.
See note 22 for further information.
L. Notes to the Company statement of changes in equity For details of share capital, share premium, the special reserve, the capital redemption reserve and the hedging reserve see notes 25 and 26.
For details of the Companys 750 million share buy-back programme, see note 26.
For details of dividends, see note 11.
Capital reserve This reserve arose from the surplus on the transfer of trade and assets to a subsidiary undertaking.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 123 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 33.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company only financial statements continued M. Reconciliation of profit before taxation to cash generated from operations 2012 2011 m m Profit before taxation 1,047 1,778 Dividend income 874 3,445 Impairment of investment 1,829 Net finance costs 72 Increase decrease in other receivables 179 2,039 Decrease in other payables 1 2,203 Cash generated from operations N. Contingent liabilities and guarantees The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have undertaken, in the normal course of business, to provide support to several of the Groups investments in both limited and unlimited companies and partnerships, to meet their liabilities as they fall due.
Several of these undertakings contain maximum financial limits.
These undertakings have been given for at least one year from the date of the signing of the UK statutory accounts of the related entity.
A payment under these undertakings would be required in the event of an investment being unable to pay its liabilities.
The Company has provided parent company guarantees in respect of the various contracts entered into with the PL by British Sky Broadcasting Limited covering the 2010 11 to 2012 13 football seasons.
In each case the guarantee covers all payment obligations now or in the future due, owing or incurred by British Sky Broadcasting Limited under the contracts and all liabilities now or in the future arising or incurred under the indemnity given to the PL by British Sky Broadcasting Limited under the contracts.
The Company has provided a parent company guarantee in respect of the contract entered into with British Sky Broadcasting Limited and Stanhope Plc in relation to the construction of a new building at the Osterley Campus.
The guarantee covers all performance obligations and payment obligations imposed on British Sky Broadcasting Limited under that contract.
The Company has guarantees in place relating to the Groups borrowings, see note 22.
Transactions with related parties and major shareholders 2012 2011 m m Supply of services to subsidiaries 200 192 Interest received from funding to subsidiaries 56 63 Amounts owed by subsidiaries 1,652 1,406 Amounts owed to subsidiaries 2,746 2,238 Amounts owed to other related parties 4 The Company has related party transactions with its subsidiaries by virtue of its status as parent company of the Group.
In particular, it is normal treasury practice for the Company to lend and borrow cash to and from its subsidiaries as required.
Under this policy, British Sky Broadcasting Limited settled liabilities of 67 million 2011: 66 million on behalf of the Company, during the year.
Interest is earned on certain loans to subsidiaries.
The Company recognised 200 million 2011: 192 million for licensing the Sky brand name to subsidiaries.
The Company recognised dividends during the year from subsidiaries totalling 874 million 2011: 3,445 million.
On 13 July 2011, News Corporation announced that it no longer intended to make an offer for the entire issued and to be issued share capital of the Company not already owned by News Corporation.
For further details see note 30.
Share buy-back programme During the year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 30,679,157 ordinary shares held by News Corporation as part of its share buy-back programme.
For further details, see note 26.
The Groups related party transactions are disclosed in note 30.
P. Events after the reporting period On 25 July 2012, the Board agreed to seek the necessary approvals to return a further 500 million of capital to shareholders via a share buy-back programme.
For further details, see note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 124
