Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms GLOSSARY OF TERMS Glossary of terms Useful Definitions Description ADS American Depositary Share each ADS currently represents four ordinary shares of BSkyB Bonus channel A channel provided to a TV customer in addition to one or more subscription channels, but at no incremental cost to the TV customer BSkyB or the British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company Churn The number of total customers over a given period that terminate their subscription in its entirety, net of former customers who reinstated their subscription in that period where such reinstatement is within a 12-month period of the termination of their original subscription, expressed as an annualised percentage of total average customers for the period DSL Digital Subscriber Line DTH Direct-to-Home: the transmission of satellite services and functionality with reception through a minidish.
DTH customer means a subscriber to one or more of our retailed packages of television channels made available via DTH DTT Digital Terrestrial Television: digital signals delivered to homes through a conventional aerial, converted through a set-top box or integrated digital television set EBITDA Earnings before joint ventures, interest, profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment, taxation, depreciation and amortisation is calculated as operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets EPG Electronic Programme Guide ESOP Employee Share Ownership Plan ESPN Entertainment and Sports Programming Network broadcasting the ESPN, ESPN Classic, ESPN America and ESPN HD Channels Fiscal year or fiscal Refers to the twelve months ended on the Sunday nearest to 30 June of the given year Freeview The free DTT offering available in the UK GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles The Group BSkyB and its subsidiary undertakings HD High Definition television HMRC Her Majestys Revenue and Customs IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards IP Internet Protocol: a mechanism by which data packets may be routed between computers on a network IPTV Internet Protocol Television LLU Local Loop Unbundling: a process by which BTs exchange lines are physically disconnected from BTs network and connected to other operators networks.
This enables operators other than BT to use the BT local loop to provide services to customers Minidish Satellite dish required to receive digital satellite television MMDS Multipoint Microwave Distribution Service MPF Metallic Path Facilities which occur where a single communications provider uses the local loop to provide both broadband and voice services over its network Multiroom Installation of an additional set-top box in the household of an existing DTH customer NOW TV An internet streaming service available to anyone in the UK with an internet connection regardless of ISP.
At launch on 17 July 2012, the service was available on devices including PC, Mac and selected Android smartphones with other devices and platforms to follow NVN New Voice Network Ofcom UK Office of Communications PL Premier League Premium Channels The Sky Premium Channels and the Premium Sky Distributed Channels ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 131 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Glossary of terms continued Premium Sky ESPN & HD, Disney Cinemagic & HD, MUTV, Chelsea TV and MGM HD Distributed Channels PVR Personal Video Recorder: satellite decoder which utilises a built-in hard disk drive to enable viewers to record without videotapes, pause live television and record one programme while watching another RCF Revolving Credit Facility Set-top box Digital satellite equipment, responsible for receiving, converting and sending the picture and sound of a broadcast to the associated television set Sky British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc and its subsidiary undertakings Sky Skys fully-integrated PVR and satellite decoder Sky HD High Definition box with PVR functionality Sky Active The brand name for Skys transactional interactive television services, including customer services, games, betting and messaging Sky Basic Channels Sky 1, Sky 2, Pick TV, Challenge, Sky News, Sky Sports News, Sky Arts 1 and Sky Arts 2, Sky Poker.
com, Sky Living, Sky Living It and Sky Atlantic and their multiplex versions and their simulcast HD versions Sky Bet Skys betting services, provided through set-top boxes, the internet and via phone Sky Broadband Home broadband service previously provided exclusively for Sky digital customers but now extended to customers who do not take a television service from Sky Sky Box Office Our pay-per-view service offering movies, sporting events and concerts generally offered at scheduled times on our 42 dedicated linear channels Sky Channels Television channels wholly owned by the Group, being the Sky Basic Channels and Sky Premium Channels Sky Distributed Television channels owned and broadcast by third parties, retailed by the Group to TV Customers Channels Sky Go Skys retailed packages of television channels and on demand content made available via a broadband connection, including the version made available to mobile devices via a wireless or 3G connection Sky Mobile Skys retailed packages of television channels made available to mobile devices via a wireless or 3G connection and our Sky Mobile TV platform Sky Player Skys retailed packages of television channels and on demand content made available via a broadband connection and our Sky Player platform Sky Premium Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 3, Sky Sport 4, Sky Sports F1, Sky Movies Premier, Sky Movies Showcase, Channels Sky Movies Comedy, Sky Movies Family, Sky Movies Action & Adventure, Sky Movies Modern Greats, Sky Movies SciFi & Horror, Sky Movies Drama & Romance, Sky Movies Crime & Thriller, Sky Movies Classics and Sky Movies Indie and their multiplex versions and their simulcast HD versions and Sky 3D Sky Store Our pay-per-view, on demand movies rental service available via Sky Anytime, Sky Anytime and Sky Go Sky Talk Home telephony service provided for Sky digital subscribers and now extended to customers who do not take a television service from Sky SMATV Satellite Master Antenna Television SMPF Shared Metallic Path Facility Standalone home Skys retailed packages of broadband, talk and line rental when taken without a television subscription package communications Transponder Communication devices on satellites which send programming signals to minidishes TV Customer A paying subscriber to one or more of our DTH or Sky Go services Viewing share Number of people viewing a channel as a percentage of total viewing audience VM Virgin Media WAN Wide Area Network: Companies link networks at different sites over the internet to form a secure WAN References to US dollars, dollars, US$, $ and are to the currency of the United States US, references to Euro and are to the currency of the participating European Union EU countries, and references to pounds sterling, pence, and p are to the currency of the UK.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 132 The 2012 BSkyB Annual Review and Annual Report are available to view or download online at www.
com corporate You can find out more about Skys contribution to UK and Irish life at www.
com thebiggerpicture and download the Summary Bigger Picture Report 2012.
If you would like advice regarding accessibility of this document, please contact 08442 410333 textphone 08442 410535 This report is printed on Heaven 42 and Revive 50:50 paper which is FSC Certified.
Designed and produced by Salterbaxter.
Fulmar Colour are ISO14001 certified, Carbon Neutral, Alcohol Free, FSC and PEFC chain of Custody certified.
The inks used are vegetable oil based.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Grant Way, Isleworth Middlesex TW7 5QD Telephone 0333 100 0333 Facsimile 0333 100 0444 www.
com Registered in England No.
2247735 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc AnnuAl Review 2012 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2012 TV people loVe pAGe 08 Building on our traditional strengths and making a step change in entertainment.
more wayS To waTch pAGe 14 improving the whole experience of watching television, in and out of the home.
connecTinG people pAGe 18 Bringing value, quality and choice to home communications.
Super-SerVinG cuSTomerS pAGe 20 Delivering on our commitment to customer service.
how we do BuSineSS pAGe 22 Acting responsibly and playing our part in the communities where we live and work.
We want to be first choice for entertainment and communications.
Sky is a valued part of everyday life in more than conTenTS 10 million homes.
We entertain, excite and inspire 02 chairmans statement customers with a great choice of high-quality 04 chief executives statement television in high definition.
We make technology 07 How we contribute to the UK economy simple and put viewers in control.
We connect 08 TV people love people to each other and to the world with our 14 More ways to watch 18 connecting people broadband and phone services.
20 Super-serving customers Because we never forget that Sky is a choice, we put customers 22 How we do business first and work hard to earn their trust.
We make our products 28 Review of the year affordable so millions can join in.
And we back it all up with a commitment to exceptional customer service.
34 our business model 35 our performance Seeing the bigger picture is part and parcel of the way we 36 Board of Directors do business.
Thats why were committed to doing the right thing 38 Summary Directors report Governance and playing our part in the communities where we live and work.
40 Summary report on Directors remuneration We strive to be the best for our customers and our people, and to make a positive contribution to life in the UK and Ireland.
48 Summary financial statement We believe that focusing on long-term sustainability is the best 54 Glossary of terms way to achieve lasting success and create value for shareholders.
55 Independent Auditors statement 56 S hareholder information Were always looking for ways to improve.
That spirit has made us what we are today, and it will drive us to become what we want to be tomorrow.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 01 chairmans statement nicholas Ferguson chairman During the year a number of changes have taken place in the 2012 has been another year of achievement for Sky.
In April, James Murdoch stepped down as chairman, while In a challenging economic environment, the Company staying on as a Director, and I was asked by the Board to succeed has continued to make strong progress on all fronts.
on behalf of the entire Board, I would like to pay tribute to More customers are choosing Sky and, at the same James for the vision, drive and strategic insight he contributed time, are taking a greater number of products from us.
both as chairman and previously as chief executive.
Combined with a strong commitment to operational In parallel with my appointment as chairman, Andy Higginson efficiency, this growth has resulted in excellent financial was appointed as the Senior Independent Director and Tom results and increased returns for shareholders, continuing Mockridge as Deputy chairman.
From the Independent Directors, the Companys track record of delivery over recent years.
Allan Leighton and David evans retired after the 2011 AGM and Dame Gail Rebuck retired in June 2012.
They were succeeded by I would like to thank all our colleagues at Sky for their Matthieu Pigasse, Martin Gilbert and Tracy clarke.
We thank all commitment and focus over the last year, without which those Directors for their considerable contribution over many none of this would be possible.
years, and we warmly welcome the three new Board members.
Later this year, Lord Richard Wilson and Jacques nasser will also This sustained performance would be good in any environment retire, and we are making good progress towards the appointment but it is exceptional in a period when household budgets have of their replacements.
It is the result of a clear, consistent strategy and first-rate execution by the management team.
While This means that the majority of the Independent Directors will we must never be complacent in such a dynamic and competitive have joined within twelve months.
This is in part due to the delay marketplace, the Board is confident that the company is well in replacements caused by the proposed bid by news corporation.
positioned to continue to take advantage of the growth In order to ensure that we have sufficient Independent Directors opportunity in home entertainment and communications.
with more than three years experience, we have asked Andy Higginson to stay on for two additional years beyond September As the company looks to develop further, we also recognise the 2013, and I will stay on for sufficient time to ensure the necessary importance that customers place on dealing with responsible continuity.
Through these steps, we will safeguard the interests businesses that have a positive impact on the wider community.
of shareholders by ensuring the necessary balance of experience We have a very good story to tell, both in terms of our support for a well-functioning Board.
for the UK creative industries and our contribution to the wider economy.
This year, a new independent report has measured for Finally, in view of the companys continued strong performance, the first time the very substantial impact made by Sky in terms the Board proposes a 9% increase in the full-year dividend to of GDP contribution, employment and tax generation.
In addition, 25.4 pence per share and intends to seek shareholder approval through our Bigger Picture programme, we are working with for a further 500 million of share repurchases.
The entire Board schools to help inspire young people and develop their skills and management team remain fully focused on maintaining our with the opening of our new Sky Skills Studios experience on strong performance and I would like to thank shareholders for our campus in west London, as well as continuing to develop their continued support.
our work in sport, arts and the environment.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 02 Team Sky has huge ambitions, not just for the team but for cycling and inspiring the public to ride.
BRADLeY WIGGInS, TeAM SKY RIDeR AnD WInneR oF THe ToUR fide FRAnce 2012 TeAM SKY MAKeS HISToRY Team Skys Bradley Wiggins made sporting history in July 2012 by becoming the first ever British winner of the Tour fide France.
As part of our support for cycling in Britain at all levels, we created Team Sky three years ago with the ambition not just of achieving success on the road but inspiring even more people to get on their bikes for fun and fitness.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 03 chief executives statement Jeremy Darroch chief executive our results show that this approach is working well.
Despite what Our goal is long-term, sustainable success that creates continues to be a tough economic environment, more customers value for shareholders and has a positive impact on the are choosing Sky for a wider range of products than ever and our communities in which we operate.
We believe that the rates of customer loyalty remain very strong.
During the year, we most durable businesses stand out for their commitment added almost three million subscription products to reach a total to continuous improvement.
They constantly seek to of more than 28 million and more than 300,000 net new households joined us.
This means that Sky is now the choice of around 40% adapt so that they stay relevant tomorrow and into of UK households and a growing proportion of those customers the future.
That is why Skys story has always involved choose Sky for home communications as well as for television.
We know that to remain successful, we cant stand still.
This years strong operational growth builds further on the progress that weve made over recent years.
Weve successfully transitioned To satisfy our existing customers and to attract more people to Sky, the business to a multi-product strategy, doubling our total we need to keep moving forward and improving what we offer.
That product base since 2008, while adding 1.6 million new customers means getting better on screen, providing great entertainment that as well.
Importantly, weve achieved this growth while delivering is worth paying for.
It means making it easy for our customers to an increasingly strong financial performance.
over the same access Sky content, easy to watch it when and where it suits them, period, weve added almost 2 billion to revenue and doubled and easy to get more value from their subscription.
And it means adjusted basic earnings per share, which exceeded 50 pence for expanding our range of services so we offer a set of entertainment the first time this year.
and communications products that meet customers needs better than anyone else.
Looking back on 2012, weve continued our consistent approach to growth and returns.
Weve combined investment where it matters most to customers with a strong focus on driving greater efficiency ToTAL PRoDUcTS ToTAL cUSToMeRS across our operations.
We believe this is the best formula to achieve sustainable growth in revenue, profit and cash flow over time.
28.4m 10.6m AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 04 To give millions more people an easy and flexible way to access PoSITIVe IMPAcT on THe UK econoMY Sky content, in July 2012 we announced the launch of a new internet As Sky has evolved, so has the positive impact that our business TV service, noW TV.
Available across a wide range of internethas on our industry and the wider economy.
For example, we are connected devices, noW TV will initially offer movies for instant now the UKs biggest investor in television programming, working streaming and expand to offer sports and entertainment content.
with more than 100 independent producers for our entertainment Alongside the continued growth of our satellite service, this is a channels alone.
And we provide support and investment for British distinctive new way for us to meet the needs of customers who sport at all levels from the elite to the grassroots.
To measure and explain the scale of our wider economic impact over the past year, weve continued to perform strongly in home on the UK, this year we commissioned a report from independent communications as more new and existing customers recognise consultants oxford economics.
It found that that Sky contributes the quality and value of our products.
Around a third of Sky over 5 billion a year to UK GDP, supports nearly 120,000 jobs and customers now choose to take all three of TV, broadband and generates 2.3 billion of tax revenues.
telephony, which means we are Britains most popular provider of the triple play service.
During the year, we have continued to We hope that our story provides a good example of the important enhance our range of broadband services with the launch of contribution that a successful British company can make, particularly more than 11,000 free WiFi hotspots and the introduction of at a time when economic growth is harder to come by.
our appetite a fibre product for customers who want higher speeds.
We see to do more remains strong and we hope to contribute even more a significant opportunity for continued growth as millions more in the future.
customers have the opportunity to get a great quality service and save money by switching their communications services to Sky.
DeLIVeRInG FoR cUSToMeRS Because the main reason customers choose Sky is for a better RecoRD FInAncIAL PeRFoRMAnce choice of television, we have to keep getting better on screen.
combined with a continued focus on operational efficiency, this So we have continued to build on our traditional strengths in sport, strong growth has translated to a record financial performance movies and news, while making a step change in our entertainment with adjusted basic earnings per share exceeding 50 pence for the offering.
This year we added Formula 1 to the variety of sports first time.
Total revenue increased by 3% as the growth in customers we cover with the launch of a dedicated channel Sky Sports F1 and products more than offset headwinds in advertising and Sky to provide greater depth of coverage than ever before.
Adjusted operating profit rose by 14% to 1,223 million, a number of other rights renewals, we secured a new agreement the highest level for six years, and we delivered adjusted basic for Sky to remain the home of live Premier League football for the earnings per share of 50.8 pence, up 22% on the prior year.
As a result, we have ensured the continued breadth and quality of our sports offering, allowing customers to look forward to continued coverage of the UeFA champions League, British and Irish Lions rugby, english domestic and international cricket, european Tour golf and the Ryder cup.
In entertainment, our growing commitment to original British production is bringing more of the best acting and writing talent to Sky, including Sir David Attenborough, Melvyn Bragg, Ruth Jones and James corden.
Many of our home-grown comedies and dramas, such as Stella, Trollied and Mad Dogs, have already returned or been re-commissioned for new series.
At the same time, we continue to offer the best of US drama, with Sky Atlantic bringing customers new series of much-loved shows like Game of Thrones and Mad Men.
Sky news continues to offer outstanding reporting from home and abroad, while Sky Arts attracted its highest ever audiences for the ADJUSTeD BASIc Playhouse Presents series of original plays.
eARnInGS PeR SHARe ePS We are also offering customers more ways to enjoy our content, whether at home or on the move.
Alongside our market-leading Sky and high definition HD services, we have expanded the range of content available on our video on demand service, which has now reached more than one million active users.
Sky Go, which allows customers to access our programmes on devices such as laptops, 50.8p smartphones and tablets, goes from strength to strength with a better choice of content and record usage figures.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 05 chief executives stAtement Also this year, the Audit committee reviewed the companys approach to two separate investigations in which one of its journalists accessed the email of individuals suspected of criminal activity.
Following a thorough review, we are satisfied that the action was justified in the public interest and subject to proper editorial oversight.
MAKInG A BRoADeR conTRIBUTIon We recognise that our future success depends on long-term relationships with millions of families across the UK and Ireland.
Furthermore, we also understand that customers are increasingly choosing to reward companies that share their values and make 50,000 a positive contribution to society.
Young people have taken part in the Sky Sports our position as a broadcaster allows us to inspire our customers Living for Sport programme to make a positive difference through our Bigger Picture programme improving lives through sport, bringing the arts to more people, helping to tackle climate change and raising the aspirations of young people.
The Board has proposed a full-year dividend of 25.4 pence per Through Sky Rainforest Rescue, our partnership with WWF and the share, an increase of 9% year on year.
This represents the eighth State Government of Acre in Brazil, we are protecting a billion trees consecutive year of growth and is further amplified by our in the Amazon rainforest from deforestation.
This year, we were continuing programme to return 750 million to shareholders delighted to meet our fundraising target of 4 million and to extend through a share buy-back.
In addition, we intend to seek the project for a further three years so it can continue to support shareholder approval at the companys AGM in november 2012 for the livelihoods of more local families.
a further 500 million of share repurchases.
As with the current In sport, we also extended our hugely successful partnership with programme, news corporation has agreed to participate in the British cycling, which is well on track to get a million more people buy-back.
The effect of that agreement is to provide that there cycling regularly.
Team Sky, our professional road racing team, will be no change in news corporations economic or voting interests made sporting history in July 2012 as Bradley Wiggins became in the company as a result of the share buy-back programme.
the first ever British winner of the Tour fide France.
Around 50,000 Looking ahead, we remain confident about the long-term young people have now taken part in Sky Sports Living for Sport, opportunity that exists for our business.
With around 13 million a programme which uses sport to engage young people in homes yet to take pay TV and two thirds of Sky customers not education and boost their confidence.
And our scholarships yet taking all three of TV, broadband and telephony, there remains are helping promising young British and Irish athletes fulfil their considerable headroom for growth in home entertainment and potential and prepare for life in the spotlight.
As part of our Sky Arts Ignition series, were working with arts At the same time, we are in no way complacent about the future.
organisations including Tate Liverpool to create exciting new art We expect the economic environment to remain challenging for works around the country.
Weve also announced our first five all consumer businesses and the attractive markets in which we bursaries to help support young artists and kick start their careers.
operate will continue to be both highly competitive and dynamic.
At our headquarters in west London, our new Sky Skills Studios Against that backdrop, we will remain focused on executing our aims to raise the aspirations of young people by bringing to life clear and consistent plan.
We will continue to deploy capital in the experience of creating media content, aligning with the national areas where customers see value in getting better on screen curriculum and helping to build confidence and life skills.
The Studios and improving our products and services and maintain an acute will be open from September 2012 and will offer a free learning focus on operating efficiency to underpin those investments experience to all schools across the country, with the aim of and deliver increasing returns for shareholders.
engaging 12,000 young people each year.
ReSPonSIBLe JoURnALISM We see these activities as a vital ingredient of building long-term, Sky news is the only national television news service that operates sustainable success.
And we will look to continue to grow what without any form of public subsidy or support.
We are proud of the were doing in all these areas in the future.
contribution it has made to media plurality in the UK and its track our people are vital to everything that we do.
So I would like to record of independent, impartial coverage.
At a time of heightened thank them for their focus, energy and creativity over the past year.
interest in editorial practices across the media sector, and as part With their continued support and commitment, we can continue of our commitment to acting responsibly throughout our business, to execute against our priorities, deliver for customers and increase we commissioned both an external review of email records at returns for shareholders.
Sky news and an internal audit of payment records.
Reporting to the Audit committee, these reviews found no evidence of impropriety or cause for concern.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 06 How we contribute to the UK economy Sky is a relatively young company with a significant Sky is estimated to have supported a 5.4 billion contribution to UK GDP in calendar 2011. and expanding footprint.
Our business has grown rapidly since it was established just over 20 years ago, We employ almost 23,000 people across the UK, including 2,600 generating significant returns for our shareholders and in creative and production roles.
contributing positively to the UK economy as a whole.
Sky supported a 2.3 billion contribution to tax revenues in 2011, This year, we commissioned a report from the independent equivalent to 36 for every person in the UK.
of this, 941 million consultants, oxford economics, in order to measure and explain came directly through corporation tax, business rates, labour the scale of our economic impact.
The comprehensive study shows taxes and VAT payments.
that Sky makes a significant contribution in terms of GDP, jobs and taxes paid.
It also shows how we have stimulated economic activity in a wide range of associated companies and industries, through our investment, innovation and relationships with thousands of suppliers and business partners.
5.4bn Total annual GDP contribution 75% More than 75% 120,000 of Skys 6.4bn Total jobs dependent revenue was on Sky retained in the UK in 2011 2.3bn Total annual tax contribution 36 4,000 Taxes raised as a result Sky purchases from of Skys total economic 23,000 4,000 different activity equate to Sky employs people across UK companies 36 per UK citizen the UK with 41% based in London, 28% in Scotland and 7% in Yorkshire AnnuAl review 2012 Source: The economic Impact of Sky on the UK, a report by oxford economics.
BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc Full report available to download at www.
1 choice for TV, broadband and home phone What we put on screen is right at the heart of Sky.
Thats because we know our customers value great TV above all else.
Weve always given them outstanding sports coverage, in-depth news reporting and a great range of must-see movies.
Now, were building on those traditional strengths by taking our entertainment channels to the next level too.
TV people love InVeSTInG In HoMe-GRoWn conTenT content is our lifeblood.
We never forget that the main reason why customers choose Sky is for a better choice of television.
over the past year, weve given them more reasons to do so.
Weve brought our customers more of the programmes theyre passionate about.
And weve invested well over 2 billion on screen to do so, more than any other British broadcaster.
one of our priorities across our entertainment channels has been an increasing focus on UK commissioning and production.
Thats because we know that home-grown content really resonates with our customers and we want to give them more of the TV they love.
By 2014, we expect to be spending 600 million a year on UK commissioning and production, an increase of more than 50% over three years.
And thats enabling us to work with more of the countrys leading talent and support British creativity.
our flagship entertainment channel, Sky 1, has been at the fore of this change.
over the past few years, Sky 1 has been developing a growing roster of returning original series, including Got to Dance with Davina Mccall, An Idiot Abroad starring Ricky Gervais and Karl Pilkington, and Mad Dogs, whose all-star cast includes John Simm and Philip Glenister.
This year, the channel kicked off a brand new British comedy strand.
It got off to a great start with Trollied, starring Jane Horrocks, which enjoyed the biggest multi-channel comedy premiere ever.
Among the other highlights were Spy, which won its star Darren Boyd a BAFTA and a British comedy Award, and Stella, created by and starring Ruth Jones.
Following their success, all of Sky 1s British comedies have been recommissioned for further series.
Sky 1 was also named channel of the Year by the industry magazine, Broadcast, in recognition of its leading role in what it called a content revolution.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 08 600m commitment to investment in UK commissioning and production by 2014 Nowadays everyone is being woken up by Skyits shaken everything up, just like C4 did in the 1980s.
JIMMY MULVILLe, coMeDY PRoDUceR AnD FoUnDeR, HAT TRIcK PRoDUcTIonS AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 09 tv PeOPle lOve STRenGTHenInG oUR enTeRTAInMenT LIne-UP over recent years, we have strengthened and expanded our line-up of entertainment channels, to complement our traditional strengths in sport, movies and news.
our aim is to provide a wide range of God bless Sky Atlantic for giving high-quality programming that offers something for every member so many people an opportunity to of the family.
This is my our newest entertainment channel, Sky Atlantic, features some dream show.
I have been wanting of the greatest acting, directing and writing talent in the world.
It has brought new series of acclaimed shows like Game of Thrones to make this for 14 years.
and Boardwalk Empire to the UK and further enhanced its reputation HenRY noRMAL, ceo, BABY coW for uncompromising, intelligent drama when it exclusively showed the fifth season of Mad Men.
Just as important to the channels development has been Sky Atlantics first original drama, Hit & Miss, starring Academy Award nominee chlo Sevigny and created by one of the countrys most respected screenwriters, Paul Abbott.
As well as new drama, Sky Atlantic also began its own run of new comedies, with well-known figures like Steve coogans Alan Partridge appearing alongside new shows such as Veep from BAFTA award-winning comedy writer and director Armando Iannucci.
over the past year, weve also continued to build Sky Living into a channel that super-serves our female customers, with popular US shows like Greys Anatomy, Cougar Town and Criminal Minds sitting next to stylish original programming.
There are long-running favourites like Britain & Irelands Next Top Model, presented by elle Macpherson, as well as brand new shows like The Love Machine, presented by Stacey Solomon and chris Moyles, and the return of Bedlam, Sky Livings first original drama.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 10 Sky Arts is showing how to do culture on television.
DAVID LISTeR, THe InDePenDenT Another area where Sky offers something distinct from other broadcasters is the arts.
Sky Arts 1 and 2 remain the only channels dedicated to showing the full range of arts, entertainment and culture from literary and music festivals to the biggest exhibitions of the year.
More than six million viewers a month now tune in for highlights such as Playhouse Presents, a series of exclusive new plays from some of the most talented writers from stage and screen with all-star casts including double oscar-winner emma Thompson, Alison Steadman and Sir Tom Jones.
Meanwhile, The Ronnie Wood Show has featured interviews with and performances from musicians including Sir Paul Mccartney, and Leonardo Live saw Sky Arts at the national Gallery for the opening night of the biggest collection of works by Leonardo Da Vinci ever assembled.
As well as investing in the arts on screen, were also supporting the arts on the ground.
Through our Sky Arts Ignition Series, were supporting the creation of brand new works of art with 1.2 million of direct investment with arts partners the first with Tate Liverpool.
You can find out more about our broad support for the arts by turning to page 25.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 11 tv PeOPle lOve BUILDInG on oUR TRADITIonAL STRenGTHS When we first launched, it made sense for us to focus on areas that were under-served by other channels namely sport, movies and 24-hour news.
These areas have remained our strengths ever since Sky Sports has and were just as committed to them as ever.
raised the bar for over the past two decades, Sky Sports has set new standards in all live television sports broadcasting and provided vital funding and coverage for a wide range of sports.
This year, weve added even greater breadth broadcasters with and depth to our line-up with live coverage of the 2012 Formula 1 its innovative, season.
Weve given the sport the full Sky Sports treatment informed and with a dedicated channel in Sky Sports F1, offering more in-depth coverage than ever before, the latest technology and a team that comprehensive includes fan favourites like Martin Brundle.
coverage of cricket our coverage remains unparalleled in other sports too.
In a year No one should be in in which england were the number one test team in the world, our any doubt that our cricket coverage was hailed by the Daily Telegraph as not just the best around, but the finest coverage of any sport that there has partnership with ever been.
In golf, Sky Sports was once again the only place to Sky has been of see live coverage of all four days of the US Masters.
Meanwhile in immense benefit rugby, the audience for the knock-out stages of the Heineken cup increased by 16% on last year.
GILeS cLARKe, cHAIRMAn, In football, former Manchester United and england international Gary enGLAnD AnD WALeS neville brought his vast experience and insight to our team as both cRIcKeT BoARD the FA Premier League and UeFA champions League reached thrilling conclusions.
With audiences for Premier League matches increasing by 12% for the 2011 12 season, were delighted that Sky Sports will remain the home of Premier League football until at least 2016.
Sky Movies aims to be the only service film fans will ever need.
With around 600 films to choose from and up to five brand new premieres every Friday, at least 12 months before they are available on other online subscription services, theres something for everyone, from cult indie cinema to the biggest blockbusters.
This year, we also secured exclusive rights to show the entire iconic James Bond film catalogue uninterrupted and in HD for the first time.
Were also investing in original feature-length films for television aimed at the whole family.
As well as a wider choice of what to watch, we want to offer the best possible in-home movies experience, with all our movies available in HD on one of our 11 dedicated channels.
our customers also have the choice of watching one of the hundreds of movies that are available on demand on TV or on Pcs, laptops, games consoles, tablets and smartphones.
The result is that this year Sky Movies reached its highest number of subscribers for five years.
now available in over 103 million homes worldwide, Sky news remains the place to go for breaking news.
The last twelve months have seen some momentous news stories and Sky news was there for them all.
Powerful journalism by a team of correspondents, camera crews and producers, reporting from the front line of a brutal civil war.
RTS AWARDS JUDGeS, SKY neWS WInneR oF InTeRnATIonAL neWS FoR coVeRAGe In LIBYA Internationally, Sky news special correspondent Alex crawford reported live from the back of a truck that was part of the rebel convoy that drove into Tripoli.
Her reports, broadcast to the world via a camera plugged into a cigarette lighter, saw Alex named the Royal Television Society RTS Television Journalist of the Year for a record fourth time and she was awarded an oBe in the new Year Honours list for her services to Broadcast Journalism.
our domestic coverage was equally memorable.
Mark Stones 103m reports from the streets of London formed part of our coverage of Sky news reaches the UK riots, which won the RTS award for Home news.
Meanwhile, over 103m homes in a highly successful weekend of coverage across all Sky news across 115 countries platforms, the Queens Diamond Jubilee celebrations were watched around the world by almost six million viewers.
Finally, in a joint venture with Abu Dhabi Media Investment corporation, we launched Sky news Arabia in May 2012, which is broadcasting from Abu Dhabi to over 50 million homes across the Middle east and north Africa.
Supported by 400 editorial staff across a global network of bureaux, the Arabic-language channel offers a new and fresh approach to news across the Arab world, building on Sky news reputation for independent, impartial reporting.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 13 We want to make the whole experience of watching television better.
From improving picture and sound quality to giving our customers more control and flexibility over the ways they watch, weve constantly innovated to bring TV to life and help our customers get the most out of their subscription.
More ways to watch IMPRoVInG THe VIeWInG eXPeRIence over the years, weve constantly looked to improve the viewing experience with innovations like Sky and high definition HD TV.
They give customers more reasons to subscribe and help them get more value from their subscription.
Its now over a decade since we introduced Sky, the personal video recorder PVR that ensures customers never have to miss a moment by allowing them to pause, rewind and record their favourite shows.
over nine million homes now have a Sky box and we continue to improve the service with the introduction of more on demand content.
By connecting their Sky HD box to the internet, customers can access a huge library of on demand entertainment and movies, ready to watch when they want, all at no extra cost to their subscription.
Sky F1 hits you as if youve been shunted sideways by Kamui Kobayashi and then bashed up the exhaust by Pastor Maldonado.
The sound and the high-definition pictures combine to make a superb double act... PAUL WeAVeR, THe GUARDIAn AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 14 Sky the gold standard for TV time shifting.
STUFF MAGAzIne, ocToBeR 2011 As well as downloading programming from our entertainment and movies channels, customers can rent the latest blockbusters and classic movies instantly from the Sky Store.
Weve already added classic TV shows from the ITV library and well be adding more and more content over the coming months, including BBc iPlayer, Demand 5 and more shows from ITV that means our customers will be able to enjoy the best of terrestrial TV as well as pay TV, whenever they want.
With its pin-sharp pictures and crystal-clear sound, HD TV has set new standards for quality.
over four million customers now have access to up to 60 HD channels on the Sky platform, which is the widest choice of HD viewing in the UK.
Meanwhile, through europes first 3D channel, our customers can also enjoy action that bursts out of the screen.
over the last 12 months, Sky 3D has broadcast music festivals, ballet, movies, sporting events and documentaries like Kingdom of Plants 3D, in which Sir David Attenborough used ground-breaking 3D technology to reveal the stunning secret lives of plants.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 15 mOre wAys tO wAtch enHAncInG THe TV eXPeRIence With over half of all Sky customers now owning smartphones, we have an opportunity to give them even more value.
our range of apps allows them to enjoy some of their favourite things from Sky on the move from live TV and breaking news to the latest scores and more.
All available at no extra cost with their monthly subscription.
our mobile TV service, Sky Go, allows customers to watch great TV wherever they are via Pcs, laptops, games consoles, tablets and a range of smartphones.
All our Sky Movies and Sky Sports channels, our entertainment channels and Sky news can be watched live on Sky Go, with entertainment programmes and movies also now available to watch on demand.
In the three months to the end of June 2012, Sky Go was used by 2.7 million unique users.
Through our award-winning Sky news app, customers can also keep up to date with the latest headlines by watching live or by choosing which stories to follow.
Formula 1 fans can also choose the perfect partner for watching live Grands Prix with a special companion app that allows them to access different camera angles and real-time data.
other Sky apps that complement the main TV experience are our Sky app, which enables customers to browse the Sky Guide and set their Sky box when theyre out and about, and our Sky Movies app, which enables movie fans to find a film to watch at home or at their local cinema.
Sky Go App of the Year 2011 STUFF MAGAzIne AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 16 ReAcHInG neW AUDIenceS By investing in content and innovation, were creating more reasons for people to join Sky and take more products from us.
The growth of internet-connected devices also opens up an additional opportunity for us to offer another choice to the 13 million homes that dont currently take pay TV.
Thats why, in July 2012, we launched a new internet TV service, noW TV.
noW TV will be available on a range of internet-connected devices, including Pcs, laptops, games consoles, tablets and smartphones.
customers will be able to pay & play for instant access to an extensive range of over 1,000 movies through Sky Store or opt for a monthly pass offering unlimited access to the entire Sky Movies collection.
More great content will be added in the coming months as Sky Sports comes to noW TV, followed by home-grown drama, original comedy and US shows from our entertainment channels.
With noW TV, we will be able to serve the needs and preferences of different customers more effectively by offering two distinct ways to watch.
Theres the full, market-leading Sky service for the whole family, complete with the widest range of channels, products like Sky, HD, 3D and Sky Go, and the peace of mind of a monthly bill.
And theres the flexible, more spontaneous, pay-as-you-go service of noW TV, which is powered by Sky so customers know theyre still getting the best content and a high-quality experience from a provider they can trust.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 17 As more people choose Sky for a wider range of products, Sky Broadband and Sky Talk are growing faster than ever.
Customers are responding to the value, quality and service they offer, helping to make Sky the nations favourite digital TV, broadband and home phone provider.
connecting people SWITcH AnD SAVe We first entered the home communications sector because we saw the potential to bring more choice and value to consumers.
And thats exactly what were doing.
over the past year, we added a total of over two million broadband and home phone products, bringing the overall total to more than 11 million.
As a result, we remained Britains fastest-growing home communications provider and also became the nations number one choice for the triple play of TV, broadband and home phone, with 3.4 million homes taking all three products from us.
Switching to Sky for home phone and broadband offers our TV customers the potential to save hundreds of pounds a year, as well as the greater simplicity of taking all their entertainment and home communications services from a single provider they can trust.
Thanks to our state-of-the-art all-fibre core network, Sky is the only internet service provider to offer a truly unlimited service with no usage caps, even at peak times.
We also help our customers to get online when theyre out and about.
All Sky Broadband Unlimited customers can now enjoy free WiFi at more than 11,000 public hotspots, including locations like Pizza express, caff nero and network Rail train stations.
If they also take Sky TV from us, it means customers can enjoy their favourite channels on the move with Sky Go and at home on demand, all at no extra cost.
We want even more people to be able to benefit from great value broadband.
Thats why weve announced that we will further extend our UK network to a million more homes by June 2013, as well as bringing our broadband and home phone services to the Republic of Ireland for the first time.
And weve also launched new fibre products that enable customers to access download speeds of up to 76 megabits per second.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 18 no.
1 Britains favourite TV, broadband and home phone provider customers continue to respond very positively to Sky Talk.
For the fourth year running, Sky Talk was voted overall winner in the uSwitch Home Phone customer Satisfaction Report, with awards including Best overall customer satisfaction and Best value for money.
With two thirds of Sky customers yet to switch their home communications to us, millions more still have the opportunity to enjoy a better experience and save money by taking their broadband and home telephone from Sky.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 19 We never forget that customers always have a choice.
Thats why we aim to provide great-value products which meet their needs and to back this up with excellent customer service.
Super-serving customers PRoVIDInG GReAT SeRVIce At Sky, our motivation doesnt come from winning awards or being first to offer a new technology.
It comes from our commitment to give customers a set of products which meet their needs better than anyone else, to help them to get the most from their subscription and to provide exceptional customer service.
To help deliver the great service that our customers expect, we have created over 1,200 new customer-facing jobs this year across the UK and Ireland, including the opening of a new customer service centre in newcastle.
This is part of an on-going programme to bring more of our customer service teams in house and ensure our own The Sky Talker is a device people deal with the most complex queries.
In the coming months, designed in partnership with the Royal national Institute we will take this approach a step further with the opening of our of Blind People RnIB which new Dublin centre to provide a dedicated service to our Irish makes it easier for visually impaired customers to choose customers.
To ensure that our people are equipped to deal with what to watch.
It works by issues first-time, we have also carried out comprehensive training allowing customers to hear some of the text that appears for more than 10,000 of our contact centre staff in the last year.
on screen by vocalising Sky And our annual FAMe awards give well-deserved recognition to functions, including the programme synopsis.
those colleagues who go the extra mile to provide great service S ky has shown a real to our customers.
commitment to helping blind and partially sighted people At the same time as expanding our customer service capability, enjoy television.
lesley-Anne Alexander we are making it easier for customers to contact us in the way ceo, RnIB that suits them.
They can get in touch through a live chat facility on our website or visit our help forum to find the answer to their query, often from another customer.
Weve also made it easy for customers to go online for basic requests like re-setting a PIn or changing payment details.
1,200 new customer-facing jobs this year AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 20 1st An ofcom survey ranked Sky first for customer service in pay TV, fixed broadband and landline We know that great service comes from having great products.
By bringing the design of our set-top box in house, weve driven efficiencies and improved reliability, which has led to a 30% reduction in service visits.
All our work to super-serve our customers was recognised this year in a consumer survey published by ofcom, which ranked Sky above all others in customer service for broadband, home telephony and pay TV.
Its important to us that our products and services can be enjoyed by everyone, including those with disabilities.
For example, Sky is the only media company to have a specialist service team dedicated to supporting these customers.
For deaf and hard-of-hearing customers, we provide over 400,000 hours of subtitling a year and we invest in the development of quality sign language-presented programming through our support of the British Sign Language Broadcasting Trust.
We were also the first broadcaster to voluntarily provide audio description, a service for people with visual impairments which is now on 26% of the output on our main channels.
And our Sky Talker device, designed in conjunction with the Royal national Institute of Blind People RnIB, makes it easier for visually impaired customers to choose what to watch by allowing them to hear information from our on-screen programme guide.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 21 We understand the importance of playing a positive role in the society in which we operate.
To achieve our goal of long-term, sustainable success, we need to build the trust of our 10 million customers and gain wider recognition that Sky is a responsible business making a valuable contribution to life in the UK and Ireland.
So, in addition to meeting customers needs with our products and services, were also committed to doing the right thing, inspiring people to make a positive difference to society and making Sky a great place to work for our people.
How we do business A ReSPonSIBLe BUSIneSS DAY To DAY our business is built on long-term relationships with millions of customers across Britain and Ireland.
We recognise that they have high expectations of the companies they choose to do business with and will reward those brands that they trust to act responsibly and lead on the issues they care about.
Beyond our own customers, we also want to be recognised more broadly as a business that has a positive impact on the society and communities in which we operate.
So we understand the importance of doing the right thing and continuing to develop our reputation as a responsible business.
As a major UK business listed on the London Stock exchange, we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
our Board ensures that the companys strategy is aligned to the interests of our investors and takes account of the interests of our stakeholders.
Its approach to corporate Governance is based on a culture of honesty, integrity and transparency and in accordance with best practice at least half the Board, excluding the chairman, are determined to be independent.
PG our customers Were proud of our track record as a broadcaster.
Weve opened up more choice in television, stimulated the growth of a multi-channel can set their own industry and brought people more of the programmes they love.
watershed or block In common with the rest of the commercial television industry, our access to channels broadcasting activities are subject to regulation under ofcoms Broadcasting code, which sets out standards in areas such as fairness, privacy and impartiality of news programmes.
We take our regulatory obligations very seriously and seek to abide by the code at all times.
Because we know the importance of safety for parents, we give customers the tools they need to protect their children when using our television and broadband services.
on our television platform, we provide market-leading parental control technology, including the ability to set a bespoke watershed or to restrict access to specific channels altogether.
Likewise all of our broadband customers receive free parental controls for as long as they want them.
This year, we co-authored a Government-backed code of Practice for child internet safety and we continue to explore other ways to helping parents to control access to online content.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 22 In line with our commitment to acting responsibly, we encourage a culture of doing the right thing in day-to-day operations throughout our business.
That includes treating our customers with respect, ensuring all our dealings are professional and resolving problems as quickly as possible.
It also includes building productive, fair, ethical relationships with the growing number of partners and suppliers that we do business with, promoting better social and environmental standards through our supply chain.
We make sure that everyone at Sky understands our responsibilities towards customers and suppliers, as well as shareholders, colleagues and the wider community, through our code of business conduct, Skys Ways of Working.
We recognise that protecting the environment is everyones 31% responsibility and weve been taking action to help to tackle reduction in co 2 climate change since 2005.
Three years ago, we set ourselves emissions per 10 challenging environmental targets, including cutting our co 2 million turnover emissions by 25% per million turnover, which we exceeded this year by making a 31% reduction.
We also plan to source 20% of our energy from on-site renewables by 2020, which is something were already doing at our new broadcasting facility, Sky Studios, europes most sustainable broadcasting facility.
For detailed information about our environmental targets and performance, please visit www.
com thebiggerpicture AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 23 hOw we dO business InSPIRInG PeoPLe To MAKe A PoSITIVe DIFFeRence As a broadcaster in over 10 million homes across the UK and Ireland, we have an opportunity to extend our reach beyond the screen to make a positive impact on society.
Through our Bigger Picture programme, we aim to inspire people to take action and make it easy for them to join in.
The Bigger Picture is fundamental to our values and the way we work, helping to build trust among our customers, develop our brand and build long-term success.
We focus our work in four areas that were passionate about: inspiring our customers and our people to help tackle climate change: improving lives through sport: opening up the arts and fuelling creativity: and raising the aspirations of young people in schools.
Sky Rainforest Rescue is our partnership with WWF and the state government of Acre in Brazil to help save one billion trees in the 45,000 Amazon rainforest and protect the regions rich natural diversity.
It does so by raising awareness of the threat of tropical deforestation cricket coaches trained at home, inspiring people to donate money towards the cause and through the Sky Sports then working with local communities on the ground to make the ecB coach education forest worth more alive than dead.
In May, we announced that programme we reached our public fundraising target of 2 million, which Sky matched pound for pound to bring the overall amount raised to 4 million.
At the same time, we extended our partnership with WWF and the Acre government for a further three years so we can go further to promote sustainable alternatives to deforestation.
In sport, weve been working with British cycling for four years with the aim of getting a million more people cycling regularly.
Were on track to reach this goal, having already encouraged almost 700,000 people to get back on their bikes.
This year we expanded our Sky Ride programme to 17 events in 17 cities across the UK and Ireland, providing traffic-free streets for cyclists of all ages to enjoy and attracting over 200,000 participants.
Because elite success is one of the best ways of inspiring the next generation of cyclists, were providing support across the breadth and depth of the GB team and our professional road racing team, Team Sky, enjoyed an historic achievement with Bradley Wiggins victory in the 2012 Tour fide France, the first time that a British rider has ever won the race.
For the past nine years, Sky Sports Living for Sport, our secondary schools initiative in partnership with Youth Sport Trust, has used sports stars and skills to help boost confidence, improve life skills and raise academic attainment among young people.
over the last year, 868 schools took part, more than twice the number of the previous year.
Since 2003, Sky Sports Living for Sport has helped around 50,000 young people and our research shows participants achieve higher than the national average in english and maths.
With the england cricket team enjoying great success on the field, were also working with the ecB to help more people play cricket at a grassroots level.
Since its launch in 2006, our coach education programme has trained more than 45,000 cricket coaches.
700,000 more people cycling regularly AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 24 4m raised to help save one billion trees in the Amazon 50,000 young people have joined in with Sky We want to fuel creativity and open up the arts to more people.
Sports Living for Sport Thats why we continue to showcase the very best of the arts from around the world on our Sky Arts channels.
Its also why were collaborating with arts organisations in the creation of new, ground-breaking works through our Sky Arts Ignition Series.
We plan to invest 1.2 million to help new projects get off the ground and our first partner, Tate Liverpool, has commissioned an exciting new work by the renowned video artist Doug Aitken, which is due to open as part of the 2012 Liverpool Biennial.
To boost the careers of emerging talent, were also providing promising young artists with bursaries of 30,000 each through the Sky Arts Ignition Futures Fund to help them to focus on creating a new work and make the transition to become working artists.
From over 1,500 applications, weve selected five young artists so far, ranging from an opera director to a visual artist, and each will also receive mentoring from Sky to help develop their commercial skills and knowledge.
We already contribute to the success and vitality of our local communities by supporting local schools with a range of activities from hosting tours of our facilities to providing mentors who can offer careers advice.
Were now going even further to raise the aspirations of young people and help them learn valuable new skills.
our new Sky Skills Studios aims to inspire young people by offering them a free learning experience that links to the curriculum and helps to build life skills.
opening in September 2012, students aged 8 to 18 will be able to work with our technology, including broadcastquality cameras, green screens and touch screen edit tables, to make their very own television report on subjects theyre studying at school.
1.2m Sky Arts Ignition Series supporting brand new arts projects across the UK AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 25 hOw we dO business InVeSTInG In oUR PeoPLe The talent, hard work and enthusiasm of our people are what have made Sky a success.
Theyre critical to our ability to keep on delivering for customers and shareholders in the future.
So its vital that we attract the best people, develop their skills and create a great place to work.
our aim is to build a culture in which all of our 23,000 people can perform at their best and fulfil their potential.
To help them to progress, we provide a wide range of opportunities for development and skills training such as our online Development Studio, which is open to all staff and provides access to a huge range of learning resources and courses.
More than 240,000 e-learning courses were accessed via the Studio this year, an increase of around a quarter on the previous year.
our leadership development programmes help to build the capability of our senior team and we sponsor a number of our people to study towards professional qualifications such as those from the chartered Institute of Management Accountants, which contributed to a total of 118,000 development days this year.
Among the benefits of working for a large and diverse company like Sky are the opportunities for our people to broaden their experience through exposure to different parts of our business.
We actively encourage internal moves and job rotations to assist the development of a broader skills base and to strengthen collaboration and knowledge sharing across the company.
This year, we were pleased to see a significant increase in the number of people taking advantage of a move to a new team to develop their careers within Sky.
As part of our diversity strategy, we continue to promote greater representation of women in senior positions through a range of initiatives including mentoring, networking groups and flexible working.
We were proud to win the corporate Award at the 2011 Women of the Future Awards in recognition of the opportunities and support we provide to female employees.
There is always more to do to make sure our workforce reflects our community so we continue to focus on ensuring that more women and people from black, minority and ethnic groups are properly represented at Sky.
As well as developing the people who already work at Sky, we want to continue to encourage talented people to join us.
over the last year, weve created thousands of entirely new job opportunities in roles across the UK and Ireland and increased our staff numbers by 12%.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 26 Working at Sky Sports News was always a dream for me.
Ive been here for over 10 years, joining as a runner before moving on to presenting, and Sky has always given me the support and training opportunities for professional development.
I cannot imagine working for another broadcaster: Sky feels like home and we are very much one big family.
nATALIe SAWYeR, PReSenTeR, SKY SPoRTS neWS This year we increased the intake of our graduate schemes by 40% as 100 university leavers joined in placements across a wide range of disciplines, including finance, marketing and operations.
As a result, Sky was once again named as one of the UKs top graduate employers by The Times.
We also took on 38 apprentices in roles across our installation, customer service and broadcast operations teams.
Because we want Sky to be a great place to work, we offer a comprehensive reward and benefits package to all permanent employees, including a pension plan, healthcare cover and life assurance as well as free Sky HD, Sky Broadband and Sky Talk.
To encourage our people to make a positive difference to our communities, we give all full-time staff the opportunity to take two days of paid leave each year to volunteer for charitable work.
over the past year, many have worked with schools on projects related to our Bigger Picture initiatives in the environment, sport, the arts and schools.
Were using our partnership with British cycling to encourage more of our own people to cycle regularly.
our workplace cycling initiatives include the ability to hire bikes free of charge, lunchtime rides around the local area and free services at our on-site bike shop.
In addition, were running our biggest ever programme of organised bike rides for staff with, for example, over 200 people joining in a ride from London to Brighton.
Among our recognition schemes, the annual Believe in Better awards attracted a record number of nominations this year with over 3,000 people and 700 teams nominated.
And we are expanding Sky Fest, our free festival for staff and their families, to more events in more cities than ever to say thank you to our people for their commitment and to ensure that as many as possible get to join in the fun.
Sky received the corporate Award at the 2011 Women of the Future Awards.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BRoADcASTInG GRoUP PLc 27 review of the yeAr Strong operational growth and record financial results Andrew Griffith Chief Financial Officer We continued to extend our broadband network coverage, Sky has delivered another year of strong operational reaching 83% of the UK, bringing our high-quality, great value growth and record financial results.
Despite the tough home communications products to more homes.
To build further, economic environment, more customers are choosing this year we will launch Sky broadband and talk to the Republic of more of our products than ever before with almost Ireland, making our full suite of services available to an additional three million net product additions to reach a base 1.6 million homes for the first time.
of 28.4 million, up 12% on the prior year.
We added We also continue to make good progress in unbundling.
During 312,000 new households to reach 10.6 million customers, the year, we migrated more than 900,000 customers to our own of which 32% now take our triple play of television, network and 69% of our on-net broadband customers are now broadband and telephony.
fully unbundled, further improving the economics of our home communications business.
Following good growth across all product categories, our customers are now taking an average of 2.7 products each, up from 2.5 a year Our Summer of Sport in HD campaign in the final quarter, ago and double the level of five years ago.
ARPU increased by 10 on combined with the continued success of our Sky Sports F1 last year to 548, as the impact of this years price freeze was more channel contributed to 521,000 HD additions across the year than offset by success in selling more products to new and existing to reach 41% penetration of the total customer base.
While the consumer environment remains challenging, benefited from successful marketing campaigns with 152,000 customers are responding to the quality and value of our offering net additions in the year to reach 2.4 million customers.
with churn for the 12 months of 10.2%, down on last year.
Our continued focus on customer service is delivering meaningful We delivered another good year in home communications as benefits to the business.
In the fourth quarter, average calls per customers continue to choose Sky over other providers.
We added customer fell by more than 15% year on year despite continued 666,000 broadband customers, 667,000 telephony customers and strong product growth and service visits to customers homes 883,000 line rental products across the year.
As a result, we closed to fix a problem were the lowest in eight years.
These improvements the year with 3.4 million triple play customers up 21% and we are reflect continued focus on even better reliability of our products now the nations favourite triple play provider.
and services and resolving customer issues first time, through increased training and moving more conversations in-house.
Our focus on e-enablement deflected over six million telephone calls online over the course of the year and has led to sky.
com being consistently our most popular sales channel.
In June, Ofcom published their sixth quarterly complaints report in which we once again performed strongly with the fewest complaints of any provider in both broadband and TV.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 28 CHURN 10.2% 2011: 10.4% 2010: 10.3% extending leadership on screen Weve continued to develop our entertainment offering with great success and our decision to invest more in original British We continued to extend our leadership in content through production has resonated well with customers during the year.
building on our traditional areas of strength in sports, movies and news and at the same time driving a step change in our Our in-house commission Mount Pleasant achieved one of the entertainment offering.
biggest comedy launches in multi-channel history, the returning series of An Idiot Abroad set a record audience for Sky 1 and our We had a strong year in sport, both on and off screen.
A crucial adaptation of Treasure Island delivered Sky 1s highest drama Monday Night Football match between Manchester City and audience for four years.
Sky Atlantic continues to hold very strong Manchester United on 30 April set a new record for live Premier appeal to both existing and new customers with the channels first League football and for Sky, peaking at 4.29 million viewers.
UK drama, Hit & Miss, proving popular during the fourth quarter In addition, many customers watched the game on the move or and the return series of Game of Thrones setting a new high for online via Sky Go, with the platform achieving a record 230,000 audiences on the channel.
unique views for the game.
Overall, the dramatic 2011 12 Premier League season generated average audiences that were up 12% on the prior year and on the final day of the season 4.6 million TRIPLE PLAY viewers watched the climax on one of the Sky Sports channels.
PENETRATION 32% 25.4p Our new channel Sky Sports F1 launched during the year and 23.3p covered the unprecedented and exciting start to the season with 27% seven different winners in the first seven races.
Over 7.2 million viewers have watched the new channel since launch.
21% 19.4p We renewed a broad range of sports rights during the year, ensuring the continued breadth and quality of our sports offering and giving us greater certainty than ever before over the largest item in our cost base.
In the Premier League tender FY10 FY11 FY12 FY10 FY11 FY12 process for live rights for the three seasons beginning in August 2013, we successfully secured five packs including 116 live matches per year, ensuring that Sky remains the home of Premier League football.
In addition, we secured rights for ICC cricket, the European Tour in golf, Spanish football from La Liga and next years British & Irish Lions rugby tour to Australia.
Together, these agreements help to ensure continuity of Sky Sports unparalleled sports coverage.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 29 review of the yeAr leading product innovation We continue to focus on improving our products to deliver the best customer experience and get more of our services into customers homes.
Sky Go, our ground-breaking internet and mobile TV service, continues to resonate strongly with customers helping them to enjoy the convenience and flexibility of accessing a wide selection of our content on the move.
Customers can access hundreds of hours of TV on 32 live channels, download a movie from the Sky Movies library, or rent a movie instantly on a laptop from the new Sky Store from a range of devices including PCs, Mac, smartphones and tablets.
Usage continued to grow throughout the year, reaching 2.7 million unique users in the fourth quarter.
We continue to extend the service by adding more channels and launching to new devices.
In addition to the convenient local storage of the set-top box, our video on demand service, Anytime, is now available to more than five million homes.
We made the service available to all HD boxes irrespective of their ISP and surpassed one million active users in the fourth quarter.
In home communications, we further enhanced our broadband service in April with the launch of The Cloud WiFi hotspots, giving seamless internet access free of charge to Sky Broadband Unlimited, Sky Fibre Unlimited and Sky Connect customers.
We now have over 11,000 high-bandwidth, public access hotspots live across the UK, providing valued WiFi access for customers in convenient locations.
FINANCIAL SUMMARY For the twelve months ended 30 June 2012 the year we delivered record financial results.
Revenue increased by 4.5% on a like-for-like 1 basis, reflecting our continued growth in households and total products, and good contribution from other businesses.
Top-line ADJUSTED OPERATING growth translated into strong profitability with adjusted EBITDA MARGIN up 12% at 1,567 million and adjusted operating profit at its highest ever level of 1,223 million, at an expanded adjusted operating margin of 18.0%.
Adjusted basic earnings per share increased by 22% to reach 50.8 pence and we grew the final dividend by 11% to reach 25.4 pence per share for the year.
18.0% Unless otherwise stated, all figures and growth rates included 2011: 16.3% within this financial summary exclude exceptional items and 2010: 15.3% are from continuing operations.
1 L ike-for-like revenue growth is calculated by removing one week of trading estimated 100 million of revenue from 2011 which was a 53-week year.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 30 revenue Other revenue increased by 33% to 309 million 2011: 233 million, including 52 million from the sale of set-top boxes to Sky Italia, Group revenue increased by 194 million to 6,791 million 2011: 1 for which the corresponding cost is recognised in subscriber 6,597 million.
Like-for-like revenue increased by 4.5% as the management and supply chain.
Excluding these sales, other revenue growth in customers and products more than offset headwinds in advertising and Sky Business.
was up by 22% benefiting from continued strong performance in Sky Bet and the consolidation of The Cloud acquired on Retail subscription revenue increased to 5,593 million 2011: 5,471 23rd February 2011. million as a result of strong product growth over the year and a Direct costs larger customer base more than offsetting our decision to freeze subscription prices.
Excluding the impact of the additional week Programming costs increased by 5% to 2,298 million 2011: 2,188 1 of revenue in the comparative, subscription revenue grew 4% on million reflecting our continued investment in high-quality content.
Of the 110 million increase year on year, entertainment costs the prior year on a like-for-like basis.
accounted for 70 million as a result of a full 12 months of Sky Atlantic Our wholesale business continues to perform strongly with revenue programming, alongside increased investment in original UK up by 9% to 351 million 2011: 323 million due to increased take content.
Third-party channel costs were 30 million higher as a up for our channels across other platforms, the addition and result of adding seven additional HD channels in the year and 14% success of our new Formula 1 channel and the addition of new growth in HD customers year on year.
Sports costs were 12 million carriage deals in the the first quarter of the fiscal year.
higher year on year with the first time inclusion of the Formula 1 channel being partly offset by lower costs for cricket, golf and Advertising revenue was 4% lower year on year at 440 million boxing due to the absence of biennial and other events such as 2011: 458 million.
We continued to increase our market share, the Ryder Cup and the Haye Klitschko fight that were included in by 100 basis points across the year to 21.2%, with the majority of the comparative year.
Movies costs were flat year on year.
growth due to improved channel ratings for our third-party partners with whom we share revenue upside.
Looking over a longer period, Direct network costs increased by 16% to 676 million 2011: 584 the benefits of increased scale have enabled us to grow revenue million, with 24% growth in home communications products by 111 million since 2008 09 at an average annual growth rate of 10%.
partially offset by our continued progress in migrating customers to our fully unbundled network, thereby reducing the per customer Installation, hardware and service revenue of 98 million was lower cost.
Gross margin of our home communications products improved year on year 2011: 112 million.
In the context of continued growth as a result of revenue growth, additional scale and cost savings in customers and product penetration, our work on product achieved as a greater proportion of customers are on our network.
reliability and right-first-time installation rates led to the lowest level of service visits for eight years.
ADJUSTED ADJUSTED BASIC OPERATING PROFIT EARNINGS PER SHARE 14% EPS 22% 1,223m 50.8p AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 31 review of the yeAr other operating costs Transmission, technology and fixed network costs were flat at 395 million 2011: 395 million as a result of favourable We have delivered another strong performance in costs, where negotiations with suppliers and improved broadcasting efficiency efficiency programmes have contributed to a 6% reduction in adjusted other operating costs for the period to 2,594 million due to the move to tapeless production within Sky Studios.
2011: 2,752 million and a 350 basis points reduction as a Administration costs fell by 27 million to 514 million 2011: 541 percentage of sales.
million helped by a lower non-cash IFRS 2 Share-based payment charge and associated National Insurance costs than in the Marketing costs were 13% lower year on year at 1,064 million prior year.
2011: 1,220 million with lower cost route-to-market sales, less above-the-line spend and fewer gross additions.
Online is now earnings consistently our single largest route-to-market, with our best On an adjusted basis, profit before tax was 1,148 million offers available via sky.
In addition to savings from the closure 2011: 987 million, which included the Groups share of joint of the Sky customer magazine, above-the-line costs were 25 million ventures and associates profits of 32 million 2011: 34 million lower year on year.
Overall, the cost to acquire a new TV customer and a net interest charge of 107 million 2011: 120 million.
SAC was 397 2011: 376, with lower costs of direct marketing and set-top box costs offset by lower customer acquisition volumes.
Adjusted taxation for the period was 273 million 2011: 262 million.
The adjusted effective tax rate was 24% 2011: 27% Subscriber management and supply chain costs increased reflecting the reduction in the rate of UK Corporation Tax, by 25 million year on year to 621 million 2011: 596 million.
and one-off tax losses recognised in the third quarter largely The largest contributor to the increase was the cost of sales of inherited at the time of acquisition of Skys core network, set-top boxes to Sky Italia with corresponding revenue recorded formerly part of Easynet, in 2006. within other revenue.
Excluding the impact from these box sales, in both the current and comparative year, subscriber management Adjusted profit for the period was 875 million 2011: 725 million, and supply costs were down in absolute terms year on year: a good generating an adjusted basic earnings per share from continuing result in the context of a growing customer base and a 12% increase operations of 50.8 pence 2011: 41.6 pence.
in the sale of total products year on year.
Over the year the weighted average number of shares excluding those held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan for the settlement of employee share awards was 1,721 million 2011: 1,743 million.
The number of shares at the end of the year was 1,674 million 2011: 1,753 million.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 32 exceptional items DIVIDEND PER SHARE Reported operating profit of 1,243 million included a net benefit of 20 million consisting of a 31 million gain relating to the break 32% 25.4p fee from News Corporation net of related costs and 11 million 23.3p of restructuring costs which comprise severance p 27% ayments in relation to a number of senior roles as part of a restructuring initiative to improve operational efficiency.
Both exceptional 21% 19.4p items were recognised in administration costs.
Reported profit after tax of 906 million also included an additional 11 million exceptional gain, which consisted of a 7 million profit on disposal of our stake i FY10 n ChelseFY11 a Digital FY12 FY10 FY11 FY12 Media, an exceptional gain of 19 million relating to the re-measurement of derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 2011: 18 million gain, a 5 million charge due to writing-off the fees relating to The Groups liquidity and headroom are comfortable with no the previous revolving credit facility, and a 10 million charge bond redemptions until October 2015 when 428 million falls relating to the tax effect on exceptional items.
As at the end of the year, cash and cash equivalents and page 51 of Summary financial statement.
short-term deposits were 1,174 million and the Companys 743 million revolving credit facility remained wholly undrawn.
Cash flow and financial position Adjusted free cash flow increased by 14% to 992 million Distributions to shareholders 2011: 869 million, excluding a one-off payment of 82 million The Directors propose an increase of 11% in the final dividend in respect of the Premier League rights deposit for the season to 16.2 pence per share.
Taking this into account the full-year starting August 2013 including the one-off payment, adjusted dividend will be 25.4 pence per share, consistent with our policy free cash flow was 910 million, see Summary financial statement of maintaining a payout ratio of 50% of adjusted earnings.
The strong underlying cash flow growth The proposed dividend continues our strong track record of reflects a 12% increase in adjusted EBITDA and a 9% improvement delivering returns to shareholders and represents the eighth in working capital, offset by increased capital expenditure.
consecutive year-on-year increase in the dividend.
Our full-year Capital expenditure increased by 34 million to 457 million dividend has doubled since 2006 and has grown at a compound 2011: 423 million, 6.7% of sales.
The largest contributor to growth annual growth rate of 20% since it was restarted in 2004.
Including was the growing scale of our broadband network as we unbundled the share buy-back, we will have returned almost 1 billion to a further 388 exchanges to reach 83% coverage of the UK, shareholders in the last 12 months.
expanded The Cloud WiFi network and launched a fibre product.
The ex-dividend date will be 24 October 2012 and, subject to Net debt as at 30 June 2012 was 876 million 2011: 750 million.
shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held The value of shares repurchased to date under the 750 million on 1 November 2012, the final dividend of 16.2 pence will be paid share repurchase plan approved by shareholders on 29 November on 16 November 2012 to shareholders appearing on the register 2011 totalled 549 million, of which 236 million was completed at the close of business on 26 October 2012. in the fourth quarter.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 33 review of the yeAr Our business model Sky is the leading pay television provider in the UK and Ireland and the fastest growing provider of home communications services in the UK.
As at 30 June 2012, we had 10.6 million customers taking a total of 28.4 million products.
WHAT WE DO OUR APPROACH Sky retails pay TV services to residential customers in SD, HD and We have a clear and consistent strategy: to attract new customers 3D via satellite, on demand with Anytime and on the move with to Sky: sell more products and services to our existing customers: Sky Go, and from July 2012, via internet streaming with NOW TV.
and develop our adjacent businesses.
To achieve this broadly-based We keep our customers connected with great-value broadband growth, we continue to invest in the customer experience while and telephony products in the home via DSL and fibre, and away improving the efficiency of our operations, all with the aim of from the home with The Cloud WiFi.
We also retail our TV services building a larger, more profitable business.
to commercial customers, and operate adjacent businesses wholesaling our channels portfolio, selling advertising on our own and partner channels and offering a range of betting and gaming services.
our business model We want to be the first choice for entertainment and communications so we put customers at the heart of everything we do.
Through focus on quality, flexibility, value and service we can grow in a variety of ways, create value for shareholders, and make a broader contribution to the community.
invest in standout Add value through Grow share in home Grow adjacent increase operating content innovation communications businesses efficiency We invest in high-quality, We deliver innovative new More customers are choosing Our content investment We focus on operating exclusive content to give products and services which Sky home communications supports growth in our efficiency to deliver the best customers a greater improve the experience of products over other providers adjacent wholesale, service, underpin investment choice of TV that they watching TV and add more for our quality, value and advertising and Sky Bet in future growth and increase are passionate about.
Develop our long-term capability We continue to invest in the key building blocks of our brand, our people and our infrastructure as key components of long-term success.
Build a larger, more profitable business HOW WE DO BUSINESS We are focused on building a sustainable business.
We want to be known for being a great company to do business with, for making a positive contribution to UK and Irish life and for being a great place to work.
A responsible business day-to-day our people inspiring action how we manage risk Because our reputation is a valuable We aim to attract the best talent and We extend our reach beyond the We identify and manage risk across asset, we pay as much attention to create a culture where they achieve screen by inspiring our customers the Group through a formal risk the way we do business as we do to their potential and have a great career.
to make a positive impact on society.
the quality of the services we offer.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 34 Our performance Strong demand across our growing product range translated into growth in each of revenue, operating profit, earnings per share and free cash flow, on an adjusted basis.
We have identified a number of key performance indicators, both operational and financial that we use to assess the Groups performance against its core strategic priorities.
We also have 25 independently assured KPIs we use to measure our sustainability performance, which can be found at www.
com thebiggerpicture OPERATIONAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Products & Customers APRU Adj Group RevAdj Oper Prof 2010 2011 2012 28.4 548 6,791 1,223 p roDuCts & Cus910 tomers million Customers tAkinG eACh of tv, 538 6,597 -16.1% 87% 504 25.4 869 total products Total customers Churn % BroADBAnD AnD telephony million 2012 86% 1,073 5,709 21.6 -2.6% 872 2012: 2012 28.4 10.6 81% 81% 39.7% 2.0 2.8 3.4 577 2011 10.3 2011 25.4 2010 2011 2012 10.2% 13.7% 2010 21.6 9.9 -7% 2011: 10.4% 2010: 10.3% -25% 41.0% -19% Description A customer is defined as a subscriber to one of our TV Description Churn represents the number of customers over a given Description The number of customers taking one of our TV products 2010 10.6 10.3 9.9 packages or standalone home communications service.
Total products period who terminated their subscriptions, net of former customers and both a Sky Broadband and a Sky Talk product.
Customers may also -31% 30.9% is defined as the total of all subscription products taken by our who reinstated their subscription within 12 months of terminating their opt for our line rental product.
customers and includes TV, HD, Multiroom, Broadband, Telephony and original subscription, expressed as a percentage of total average Analysis This is an important measure for our business, with higher 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2011 2012 Line Rental.
2010 2011 2012 penetration positively impacting ARPU and customer loyalty.
At 30 June Analysis Total customers and products are both key determinants of Analysis Churn is a good measure of customer satisfaction, which 2012, 3.4 million customers chose each of TV, broadband and telephony, the Groups value.
Our strategy is to continue adding customers and is a key driver of value for our business.
Churn for the year up 21% from the prior year.
selling more products to our existing base.
new customers and grew the total products taken by 12% to 28.4 million.
FINANCIAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 3 1 1,3 Arpu revenue m ADjusteD operAtinG profit m 2012 548 2012 6,791 2012 1,223 2011 538 2011 6,597 2011 1,073 2010 504 2010 5,709 2010 872 Description Average revenue per user ARPU is calculated by taking the Description Revenue includes revenue from retail subscriptions, Description Adjusted operating profit for the Group excludes any amount spent by the Groups residential customers ex-VAT, divided by wholesale revenue, advertising, and installation, hardware and exceptional or one-off items.
the average number of residential customers.
Analysis Adjusted operating profit is a key measure of the underlying Analysis ARPU is impacted by the type of subscription package taken by Analysis Revenue is a key measure of how the Group is delivering business performance.
It increased by 14% in 2012. a customer, as well as the number of additional paid-for products.
ARPU on its strategy to grow the business.
In 2012 revenue grew by 3% on increased by 10 as customers rewarded us with more of their business.
last year notwithstanding prices were frozen for existing customers.
totAl shAreholDer return % ADjusteD BAsiC 1,3 1,2 sky FTSE ADjusteD free CAsh flow m eArninGs per shAre p Products & Customers APRU Adj Group RevAdj Oper Prof 2010 2011 2012 28.4 548 6,791 1,223 910 2012: 538 6,597 -16.1% 87% 25.4 504 22% 869 2012 2012: 910 86% 1,073 5,709 2011: 869 21.6 -2.6% 50.8p 872 81% 81% 2010: 577 2011: 41.6p 30% 2010: 32.1p 15% 39.7% 2.0 2.8 3.4 2011 577 2010 2011 2012 13.7% Description Adjusted free cash flow is defined as cash generated from Description Adjusted basic EPS is the profit after tax for the year, operations after the impact of capital expenditure, net interest and tax excluding exceptional items and related tax effects, divided by the -7% paid, cash flows to and from joint ventures, excluding exceptional items.
weighted average number of ordinary shares.
-25% 41.0% Analysis Free cash flow is an important measure of the Groups success Analysis Adjusted basic EPS provides a measure of shareholder -19% 2010 10.6 10.3 in converting profits to cash flow and of the underlying health of the return that is comparable over time.
Adjusted basic EPS increased 9.9 -31% 30.9% business.
Adjusted free cash flow increased by 5% as a result of higher by 22% to reach a record level of 50.8p.
profitability and strong working capital.
2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Description Total shareholder return TSR represents the change in value of a share held for the 12 months to 30 June, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares at the closing price applicable on the ex-dividend date.
The value of the share is based on the average share price over the three months prior to 30 June.
Analysis TSR represents a comparable measure of shareholder return over time.
BSkyB shares under performed the FTSE 100 index by 13.5 1 From continuing operations.
percentage points in the year to 30 June 2012: however, our share 2 For further details see note 10 of the consolidated financial statements.
price was heavily influenced by the withdrawal of the proposed offer 3 For a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures including a reconciliation by News Corporation on 13 July 2011.
In the period since the withdrawal, of ARPU which has been restated for 2011 and 2010, see page 52. we outperformed the FTSE by 4.1% on a TSR basis.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 35 BoArD of DireCtors Board of Directors nicholas ferguson thomas mockridge Andrew higginson jeremy Darroch Chairman Deputy Chairman senior independent non-executive Chief executive officer Appointed to the Board: 15 06 2004 Appointed to the Board: 10 02 2009 Director, Chairman of the Corporate Appointed to the Board: 16 08 2004 Nationality: British Nationality: New Zealander Governance & Nominations Committee Nationality: British and the Audit Committee skills and experience skills and experience skills and experience Appointed to the Board: 01 09 2004 Extensive experience in leadership roles An experienced executive in both print Mr Darroch joined the Company as Nationality: British in the finance sector.
Co-founder and journalism and pay television.
Mr Mockridge Chief Financial Officer CFO in 2004 and instrumental in the development of was appointed Chief Executive Officer skills and experience was appointed CEO in December 2007.
Schroder Ventures the private equity group CEO of News International in July 2011.
Mr Higginson has been a Director of Tesco Mr Darroch has extensive experience in which later became Permira of which he plc for the last 14 years, first as Finance the retailing and fast-moving consumer Previously, he was CEO of Sky Italia and served as Chairman from 1984 to 2001. and Strategy Director, and latterly as goods sectors.
Prior to joining the Company, Chief Executive, European Television of Chief Executive of their Retailing Services Mr Darroch was Group Finance Director of News Corporation where he oversaw Prior to his appointment as Chairman of business.
Mr Higginsons early career was DSG International plc DSG, formerly Dixons News Corporations television operations the Company on 3 April 2012, Mr Ferguson with Unilever, Guinness, Laura Ashley and Group plc.
Prior to DSG, Mr Darroch spent in Europe.
Prior to joining Sky Italia, served as Deputy Chairman and Senior the Burton Group.
Member of the 100 12 years at Procter & Gamble in a variety Mr Mockridge held various roles at Star Independent Non-Executive Director.
of roles in the UK and Europe.
Group Limited and was previously CEO other appointments of Foxtel, News Corporations Pay-TV other appointments Mr Higginson was appointed Senior Mr Ferguson has been Chairman of SVG joint venture with Telstra.
Mr Darroch is a Non-Executive Director and Independent Non-Executive Director Capital plc, a publicly quoted private equity the Chairman of the Audit Committee of of the Company on 3 April 2012. group, since April 2005 and has served as Mr Mockridge was appointed as Deputy Marks and Spencer Group plc.
He is a Board a Director of the company since 1996.
Chairman of the Company on 3 April 2012. other appointments Member of the charity Youth Sport Trust His chairmanships in the not-for-profit Mr Higginson is Chairman of Poundland and a Council Member of the Council for sector include the Courtauld Institute of Art.
Limited and is a Non-Executive Director Industry and Higher Education.
of Woolworth SA, the Rugby Football Union and Chairman designate N Brown plc.
tracy Clarke David f. Devoe martin Gilbert Andrew Griffith independent non-executive Director non-executive Director independent non-executive Director Chief financial officer Appointed to the Board: 11 06 2012 Appointed to the Board: 15 12 1994 Appointed to the Board: 29 11 2011 Appointed to the Board: 07 04 2008 Nationality: British Nationality: American Nationality: British Nationality: British skills and experience skills and experience skills and experience skills and experience A finance professional with extensive An experienced finance professional.
Ms Clarke is an experienced banking Experienced finance professional and experience in the media sector.
A director Mr Griffith joined the Company in 1999 and and human resources professional.
Mr Gilbert is CEO of of News Corporation and its CFO since held a number of senior finance roles prior She is Group Head of Human Resources Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, October 1990.
He has served as Senior to his appointment as CFO in April 2008.
& Communications of Standard Chartered the fund management group that he Executive Vice President of News Bank and has spent most of her career in co-founded in 1983.
Named CEO of the Mr Griffith joined the company from Corporation since January 1996. banking roles both in the UK and in Hong Year at the Business Insider PWC Scotland Rothschild, the investment banking Kong.
She is a member of the Institute of PLC Awards in 2011, he is a member of other appointments organisation, where he provided financial Financial Services.
the Scottish Governments Financial Mr DeVoe has been a Director of NDS and strategic advice to corporate Services Advisory Board and the other appointments Group Limited since October 1996 and clients in the technology, media and EFAMA Presidents Advisory Council.
Ms Clarke was a Non-Executive Director of was appointed as a Director of Shine telecommunications sector.
He has SC First Bank in Korea from 20052007 and Limited on 15 April 2011.
He served as a other appointments a degree in law from Nottingham also a Non-Executive Director of eaga plc Director of Gemstar-TV Guide from 2001 Mr Gilbert is a director of a number of University and is a member of the from 20072011, where she chaired the to 2008 and as a Director of DIRECTV investment trusts and is Chairman of 100 Group of Finance Directors.
Firstgroup plc, Chairman of the Investment Committee of Chaucer Holdings PLC and Non-Executive Director of Dynmark International Limited.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 36 james murdoch jacques nasser matthieu pigasse Daniel rimer non-executive Director, Chairman independent non-executive Director independent non-executive Director independent non-executive Director, of the Bigger Picture Committee Appointed to the Board: 08 11 2002 Appointed to the Board: 29 11 2011 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed to the Board: 13 02 2003 Nationality: Australian Nationality: French Appointed to the Board: 07 04 2008 Nationality: American Nationality: Swiss skills and experience skills and experience skills and experience Extensive experience as a leading global Leading investment banking professional skills and experience Mr Murdoch is an experienced media business executive.
He has served as and former civilian administrator of the Investment finance professional and executive and has held a number of senior Chairman of the Board of BHP Billiton French Ministry of Economy and Finance.
entrepreneur with extensive experience leadership roles within News Corporation.
since 2010 and was President and CEO of In 2002 he joined investment banking firm of building investment businesses He has been a Director of the Company Ford Motor Company from 1998 to 2001.
In 2009 he became Deputy CEO internationally.
Specific sector knowledge since 2003 and served as Chief Executive Mr Nasser graduated from RMIT University of Lazard in France and Vice President of and skills focus include internet from November 2003 until December 2007 of Melbourne, Australia and has also received Lazard in Europe.
He is also the owner of the infrastructure software and services, and Chairman from December 2007 until an honorary Doctorate of Technology.
French publishing group, Les Inrockuptibles technology, communications, ecommerce, April 2012. and a co-controlling shareholder of the and media business.
General Partner of other appointments leading newspaper publisher Le Monde and the venture capital firm Index Ventures other appointments Non-Executive advisory partner of One the French edition of the Huffington Post.
Management LLP Index Ventures and Mr Murdoch is Deputy Chief Operating Equity Partners, the private equity arm established the firms London office.
Prior Officer and Chairman and CEO, International, of JPMorgan Chase and a member of the other appointments to joining Index Ventures, he was a General at News Corporation and is a member of International Advisory Council of Allianz AG.
He is a board member of Groupe Lucien Partner of The Barksdale Group.
News Corporations Board of Directors Barrire, Derichebourg and Relax News.
Between 2000 other appointments and 2003, he was Chairman and CEO of Mr Rimer currently serves on a number Star Group Limited.
Mr Murdoch was a of boards including Etsy, Inc. Flipboard, Inc. Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline RightScale Inc. Oanda Corporation, plc from May 2009 to May 2012 and FON Wireless Limited, and Stardoll Inc. Sothebys from May 2010 to May 2012.
Committee membership Audit Committee Remuneration Committee C orporate Governance and Nominations Committee T he Bigger Picture Committee Arthur siskind lord wilson of Dinton non-executive Director independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: 19 11 1991 Appointed to the Board: 13 02 2003 Nationality: American Nationality: British skills and experience skills and experience Highly experienced legal practitioner and An experienced civil servant who served in member of the Bar of the State of New York a number of UK Government Departments since 1962.
He has been Senior Advisor to over a period of 36 years.
He became the Chairman of News Corporation since Permanent Under Secretary of the Home January 2005.
Mr Siskind has been an Office in 1994 and Secretary of the Cabinet Executive Director of News Corporation and Head of the Home Civil Service in 1998. since 1991 and was Group General Counsel Since his retirement in 2002 he has been of News Corporation from March 1991 Master of Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
He was an Adjunct Lord Wilson was made a peer in 2002.
Professor of Law at the Cornell Law School other appointments from 2007 to 2009 and was an Adjunct Non-Executive Chairman of C. Hoare Professor of Law at Georgetown University and Co, Bankers.
AnnuAl review 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 37 SummaRy DiRectoRS RepoRt GoveRnance Summary Directors report Governance the Directors interests in the ordinary shares and options of the DirectorS report company are disclosed within the report on Directors remuneration A more detailed Directors report is included in the companys on pages 45 to 47.
Annual report which can be downloaded from the companys corporate website at www.
AnnUAL GenerAL MeetinG the notice convening the AGM, to be held at the Queen elizabeth ii DiviDenDS conference centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1p 3ee the Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 30 on 1 november 2012 at 11.00am, is available for download from the June 2012 of 16.20 pence per ordinary share which, together with the companys corporate website at www.
interim dividend of 9.20 pence paid to shareholders on 24 April 2012, will make a total dividend for the year of 25.40 pence 2011: 23.28 corporAte GovernAnce pence.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General the company is committed to maintaining high standards of Meeting AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 16 november 2012 corporate governance in its management of the Group and when to shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business accounting to shareholders.
the company values its dialogue with on 26 october 2012. both institutional and private investors.
For the benefit of private investors, the company produces this short form Annual review which intereStS in votinG riGhtS contains the information believed to be of most interest to them.
information provided to the company pursuant to the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and transparency rules Dtrs is published A more detailed corporate governance report is included in the on a regulatory information Service and on the companys website.
companys Annual report which is available for download from As at 25 July 2012, the company had been notified under Dtr5 of the companys corporate website at www.
the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
coMpLiAnce With the UK Amount percent corporAte GovernAnce coDe identity of person or group owned of class i news UK nominees Limited 654,974,065 39.14 the UK corporate Governance code the code provides the capital research and Management 90,751,601 5.18 standard of good corporate governance in the UK.
the Financial ii company Services Authority requires listed companies to disclose whether ii Blackrock, inc. 88,682,765 5.06 they have complied with the provisions of the code throughout ii the capital Group companies, inc. 55,977,854 3.10 the financial year.
i Direct holding which is subject to restrictions on its voting rights.
the Board considers that the company complied with the main principles of the code for the whole of the year ended 30 June chAritABLe contriBUtionS AnD coMMUnity 2012 with the following exception.
provision c. 3.1. of the code states AnD environMentAL ActivitieS that the Audit committee must be comprised of at least three independent non-executive Directors.
there was a period during the Summary Bigger picture report, which does not form part of the year between Allan Leightons retirement from the Board and the Annual review, will be made available online, and will provide the Audit committee on 29 november 2011 and Matthieu pigasses further information on the Groups commitment to corporate appointment as a member of the Audit committee on 1 May 2012, responsibility, including community and environmental activities that the Audit committees membership fell to two independent see www.
An overview of the Groups non-executive Directors.
the meeting of the Audit committee Bigger picture approach, including community and environmental held on 30 January 2012 was held prior to Mr pigasses appointment activities is also provided on pages 22 to 27. to the committee.
there were no other meetings held without three independent non-executive Directors being present from DirectorS 29 november 2011 to 1 May 2012. the names and biographical details of the Directors of the company are given on pages 36 and 37. the changes to the Board of Directors We believe that at the close of the financial period the company is during the financial year are listed in the corporate Governance wholly compliant with the provisions of the code having addressed Section of this report.
the unintentional departure from the code as documented above.
At the companys 2012 AGM all current executive and non-executive LeADerShip Directors will retire.
it is the intention that Jacques nasser will Role of the Board not seek reappointment but all the other executive Directors and the Board has collective responsibility for the management, non-executive Directors will offer themselves for reappointment direction and performance of the Group and provides leadership in accordance with provision B.
within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables annual Review 2012 BritiSh SKy BroADcAStinG GroUp pLc 38 risk to be appropriately assessed and managed.
the Board sets Board and committee changes during the year the companys strategic direction, ensuring that the necessary on 18 october 2011 Andrew higginson was appointed as a member resources are in place for the company to meet its objectives and of the corporate Governance & nominations committee.
At the deliver sustainable performance.
companys AGM on 29 november 2011, David evans and Allan Leighton retired from the Board.
on the same date, Martin Gilbert Board delegation and Matthieu pigasse were appointed to the Board as independent the Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board non-executive Directors.
committees, notably the Audit, remuneration, corporate Governance & nominations and the Bigger picture committees.
on 3 April 2012, the company announced that James Murdoch each committees terms of reference can be found on the companys had stepped down as chairman and would continue to serve in corporate website.
his capacity as a non-executive Director of the company.
nicholas Ferguson was appointed as chairman, thomas Mockridge was the Board has delegated authority for the day-to-day running of appointed as Deputy chairman and Andrew higginson was the organisation to the executive Directors.
A committee of senior appointed as Senior independent non-executive Director.
management generally meets on a weekly basis to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
it is chaired by the ceo and on 1 May 2012, Daniel rimer replaced nicholas Ferguson as chairman comprises the cFo and other senior executives from within the Group.
nicholas Ferguson remains a member of the remuneration committee and Martin Gilbert was eFFectiveneSS appointed as a member of the committee.
Matthieu pigasse was appointed as a member of the Audit committee.
Also on 1 May 2012, Board composition and independence Andrew higginson replaced Lord Wilson as chairman of the the Board currently comprises 14 Directors, made up of two corporate Governance & nominations committee.
Lord Wilson executive Directors and 12 non-executive Directors.
At least half of remains a member of the corporate Governance & nominations the Board of Directors are determined to be independent by the committee and Daniel rimer was appointed as a member of this Board in accordance with the provision B.
James Murdoch was appointed chairman of the Bigger of each of the Directors are set out on pages 36 and 37 and identify picture committee in place of Dame Gail rebuck who stepped down those Directors who are, in the view of the Board, independent within as chairman and as a member of the committee.
on appointment the chairman met the independence criteria set out in provision B.
on 11 June 2012 Martin Gilbert was appointed as a member of the Audit committee.
on 11 June 2012 Dame Gail rebuck retired from the the independent non-executive Directors bring a wide range of Board.
on the same date, tracy clarke was appointed to the Board as experience and expertise to the Groups affairs, and carry significant an independent non-executive Director and was also appointed as a weight in the Boards decisions.
the independent non-executive member of the remuneration and the Bigger picture committees.
Directors are encouraged to challenge management and help develop proposals on strategy.
time is regularly put aside at Board reLAtionS With ShArehoLDerS meetings to discuss the strategic direction of the company.
Shareholder communications prior to appointment, and on an annual basis, each Board member presentations and webcasts on the development of the business receives and completes a questionnaire to determine factors that are available to all shareholders on the companys corporate may affect independence according to best practice statements website.
the company also uses email alerts and actively contained within the code.
the responses to the questionnaire promotes downloading of all reports enhancing speed and assist the Board in ascertaining whether a Director is independent equality of shareholder communication.
the company has taken in character and judgment, and whether there are relationships or full advantage of the provisions within the companies Act circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, 2006 allowing the website to be used as the primary means the Directors judgment.
of communication with shareholders where they have not requested hard copy documentation.
the shareholder information appointments to the Board and succession planning section on page 56 contains further details on electronic the corporate Governance & nominations committee keeps the shareholder communications together with more general Boards balance of skills, knowledge, experience and the length of information of interest to shareholders which is also included service of individuals under constant review.
in respect of succession on the companys corporate website.
planning and supplementing the skill set of the Board, there is an established procedure for the appointment of Directors.
in brief, the committee identifies the set of skills and experience required, and By order of the Board, with the assistance of external search agencies selects individuals Dave Gormley to take Board positions on review of their individual merits.
company Secretary 25 July 2012 annual Review 2012 BritiSh SKy BroADcAStinG GroUp pLc 39 SummaRy RepoRt on DiRectoRS RemuneRation Summary report on Directors remuneration this year the remuneration committee proposed not to increase chAirMAnS StAteMent the base salaries of the ceo and cFo.
Salary increases for the on behalf of the Board, i am pleased to present our report on rest of the company were awarded and in light of the excellent Directors remuneration for 2012, a year in which the company has performance of the company the average increase of 2.75% for delivered another excellent performance and increased returns to those employees earning less than 100,000 pa was increased shareholders.
We put performance at the heart of our remuneration to 4%, ensuring that the largest proportion of the increase went policy.
our objectives are to align executive interests with value to front line staff and junior and middle management.
creation for shareholders and to ensure that the company can continue to retain and attract the talent that will allow it to achieve it is the committees intention that a high proportion of total long-term success.
executive pay should be variable and related to performance.
As a consequence, the majority of executive pay is tied to the to ensure that variable pay is fair and appropriate in light of the achievement of challenging targets based on a range of measures companys overall performance, the committee retains the geared to the companys strategic goals.
if those targets are met discretion to adjust bonus payments either up or down.
the major or exceeded through outstanding performance, the companys component of variable pay is the Long term incentive plan which is executives will be rewarded accordingly.
By the same token, any determined by company performance and shareholder returns over failure to achieve the companys goals has a direct impact on a three-year period.
We believe this approach will continue to provide executive pay.
the right incentives of significant rewards for superior performance over time and promotes value creation for shareholders.
results for this year show that, against the continued backdrop of a challenging economic environment, the company has generated As a committee, we are very aware of the strong interest in the continued strong demand from customers for its products and subject of remuneration and, as well as taking due account of other delivered record financial performance.
As we continue to improve external factors, we are committed to an ongoing dialogue with our the quality and value that we offer, customers are choosing Sky in investors.
We hold an annual consultation meeting on remuneration greater numbers and taking a growing number of products from us.
with the companys major shareholders and institutional investor net product growth of 3.0 million took the total to 28.4 million, up by groups which enables us to take shareholders views fully into 12% year on year, including the addition of 312,000 new households.
account when making decisions about remuneration.
over the last three years our total subscription product base has During 2011 12 the committee reviewed the remuneration now grown by 61%, from 17.6 million to 28.4 million.
arrangements for executive Directors to ensure that they continue Strong operating results led to revenue growth of 3% despite to meet the objectives of the companys remuneration policy.
combined with good discipline on As part of the review of annual bonus measures it was proposed costs, this has delivered double-digit growth in adjusted operating to replace customer net growth with the broader measure of profit and the highest adjusted operating margin for six years.
this aligns our measures to our agreed earnings per share has more than doubled since 2007 8.
also provided superior returns to shareholders, and our share price has outperformed the FtSe100 index by 4% since the proposed the remuneration committee have noted that the executive Long news corporation offer dropped away.
cash returns to term incentive plan Ltip vests every two years.
this differs from shareholders this fiscal year were 953 million.
most other schemes which have annual vesting.
the effect of this is that subject to the performance conditions having been met, there this strong performance is reflected in the remuneration of the will be a significant difference in Directors total remuneration from executive Directors, which is designed to align their interests one year to the next.
As part of its continuing review of policy, the as strongly as possible with those of shareholders.
overall remuneration committee will consider the possibility of moving to remuneration is composed of a mix of fixed pay, short-term variable annual vesting in respect of the Ltip.
pay and long-term variable pay.
the ratio of fixed to variable pay is 20% : 80% which remains one of the lowest in the FtSe 100 During this calendar year the Department for Business, innovation where the average fixed to variable ratio is 35% : 65%.
over a five and Skills BiS has made several proposals for changes to the year period fixed pay for executive Directors today is 7% lower Directors remuneration reports published as part of companies in absolute terms than it was in 2007. over the same period, Annual reports.
the committee discussed these proposals at base pay for employees as a whole has increased by 16.5% in length and will give further consideration to the appropriate absolute terms.
to improve the presentation of this report we have made a number of changes and i trust shareholders will appreciate the new format.
Daniel rimer committee chairman annual Review 2012 BritiSh SKy BroADcAStinG GroUp pLc 40 Section 1 reMUnerAtion poLicy 1.1 principles executive Directors remuneration is geared towards rewarding in setting remuneration policy, the committee is guided by its challenging long-term strategic objectives and targets responsibility to shareholders, the performance of the company and offers the opportunity to earn significant rewards for and relevant external factors.
care is taken to ensure that the overall remuneration policy does remuneration across Sky is based on the following principles: not inadvertently encourage inappropriate risk taking and the We want to reward all our people fairly and competitively committee periodically conducts a formal review of risk in the to attract and retain the calibre of individuals that will continue context of remuneration.
to deliver significant growth in value.
this year, the committee reintroduced relative tSR into the July Any increases in fixed pay for executive Directors are decided in 2012 Ltip awards which was omitted for the 2011 financial year the same way as those for all employees and are based on the due to the share price being impacted by the possible bid from performance and experience of each individual, and the size and news corporation.
1.2 Structure of remuneration element of remuneration how it supports the strategy Level opportunity Detail Basic salary takes account of each ceo 935,000 Salaries are reviewed annually.
Any changes are made executives experience from 1 July cFo 573,500 and personal contribution.
no increases were awarded in 2012 13 annual bonus Drives and rewards annual ceo up to 200% payments are based on achievement of targets, including: performance.
of base salary operating profit growth cFo up to 150% operating cash flow of base salary product net growth An amount equivalent to up to half of the bonus can be invested in the co-investment plan co-investment plan encourages executive executive may invest an amount Deferred shares are matched based on three-year investment and equivalent to up to half of their compound annual epS growth: commitment.
helps annual cash bonus in shares Below rpi 3% no match retain talent.
the number of shares may be rpi 3% 1 : 1 match matched up to a maximum of rpi 6% 1.5 : 1 match 1.5 shares on an after tax basis Straight line vesting in between for every share invested 2012 13 awards will be: 70% of award is based on achievement of long term incentive plan incentivises long-term value operational targets equally weighted on epS, ltip creation, directly linking to ceo 600,000 shares operating cash flow, revenue growth shareholder interests.
cFo 320,000 shares rewards achievement of 30% of the award is based on tSr relative to the sustained epS growth and FtSe100 relative tSr performance.
Measured over three years vesting occurs every two years notes i pension and other benefits detailed in 1.4. ii operating profit, operating cash flow, epS and revenue growth are generally defined as adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating cash flow, adjusted epS and adjusted revenue growth, however the committee will review the measures and may amend definitions at its discretion.
reMUnerAtion MiX Target R Taremuner get Remuner ation ationMaximum R Maximum R emuner emuner ation ation target remuneration maximum remuneration executive Directors remuneration at Sky has three main elements: Averag Ae of verage of Averag Ae of verage of Average of executive Directors Average of executive Directors Fixed pay basic salary, pension and other benefits.
Executiv Executiv e Director e Dirs ectors Executiv Executiv e Director e Dirs ectors Fixed pay Fixed pay Short-term variable pay annual bonus with an option to invest an Fixed pay Fixed pay amount equivalent to up to half the bonus in a co-investment plan.
Long-term variable pay the Long-term incentive plan.
LTIP LTIP LTIP LTIP Maximum Maximum bonus bonus the remuneration committee believes that the majority of executive pay should be linked to performance.
Target Target bonus bonus annual Review 2012 BritiSh SKy BroADcAStinG GroUp pLc 41 SummaRy RepoRt on DiRectoRS RemuneRation Summary report on Directors remuneration continued 1.3 Basic salary 1.6 long-term incentive plan ltip Basic salaries of all our employees are reviewed annually.
Salary Sky operates an Ltip for its executive Directors and Senior awards for employees including executive Directors, take account executives to incentivise and drive long-term value creation.
of company performance, an individuals performance during this provides strong alignment with shareholders interests the year and, if appropriate, local market conditions.
For executive and ensures that the entire senior management team is focused Directors, salaries are benchmarked against a subset of the on the same goals.
FtSe100 comprising 20 relevant companies of a similar market Key features of the ltip capitalisation.
no salary increases have been awarded to executive All awards are made at the discretion of the remuneration Directors for 2013. committee.
1.4 pension and other benefits the Ltip operates in three-year cycles, with vesting occurring the company operates a defined contribution plan for all eligible every other year.
the next vesting of Ltips are due to vest at the employees, the BSkyB pension plan pension plan.
the Group end of the 2012 13 financial year.
has no legacy-defined benefit plans.
employees contribute up in the first year, participants are granted nil-cost options with to 4% of pensionable salary into the pension plan each year and vesting based on a three-year performance period.
in the second the company matches this with a contribution of up to 8% of year, a further award of up to 100% of the year-one award may be pensionable salary.
this second tranche vests at the same time as the first.
individuals whose pension contributions exceed the Annual to provide alignment with shareholders, the grants are fixed as Allowance for pension tax relief are paid as a cash supplement.
a number of shares rather than as a monetary value.
the value During the year Jeremy Darroch was given a cash supplement of of an executives award is therefore linked to the share price.
128,255, and Andrew Griffith was given a cash supplement of to ensure an outcome that is fair to both executives and 37,883.
For executive Directors this contribution rate is well shareholders, the committee retains discretion over any vesting below market norms.
in the event of change of control.
the pension plan has income protection of up to two-thirds salary, Ltip award sizes or 300,000 and insured death in service of up to one-third salary, As part of the 2012 13 Ltip grant cycle Jeremy Darroch will be which can be taken entirely as a pension, or 50% lump sum and 50% granted an award of 600,000 shares and Andrew Griffith will pension, or entirely as a lump sum, subject to the lifetime allowance.
be granted an award of 320,000 shares.
the pension plan also has enhanced Life Assurance cover up to four times annual salary, for those employees who decide not to join the there was no increase made to the level of Ltip awards this year.
pension plan they receive Life Assurance of two times annual salary.
conditions of vesting other benefits include use of a company car and private medical the committee regularly reviews the measures under the Ltip to insurance.
1.5 annual bonus For the awards that were made in 2010 and 2011 vesting in 2013, the annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of annual tSr was not used as a measure as the companys share price at financial and strategic business targets, and personal performance.
the time of grant was materially impacted by the possible bid from news corporation.
For 2013, the annual bonus for executive Directors will continue to be based on three equally-weighted measures: operating profit, For awards made from July 2012 and any that will be made in 2013 free cash flow and product growth.
these are three of the Key vesting in 2015, the relative tSr measure will be reintroduced.
performance indicators for Sky as detailed in our performance 70% of these awards will be based on operational targets and on page 35. the bonus that may be achieved against the three 30% on relative tSr.
measures may be adjusted up or down by the committee based on the personal performance of each individual executive.
the maximum bonus opportunities for 2013 continue to be 200% and 150% of salary for the ceo and cFo respectively.
executive Directors and Senior executives have the opportunity to invest an amount equivalent to up to half of their annual bonuses in return for performance-related matching shares under the co-investment plan see page 43.
For 2012, actual performance against measures and the resulting payouts under the annual bonus are shown on page 44. annual Review 2012 BritiSh SKy BroADcAStinG GroUp pLc 42 i Operational targets 100% weighting for 2010 2011 tSR veStinG ScheDule TSR Vesting Schedule awards and 70% for 2012 2013 awards Payout TSR Payout the operational performance conditions for the Ltip are epS growth, % of grant Performance 30 operating cash flow and revenue growth, each of which is key to Below Median 0% Skys success.
epS captures our bottom line performance, operating 50% 10% cash flow, our ability to generate and manage cash and revenue 55% 14% growth is a key measure of the success of our strategy.
10 60% 18% 2010 2011 awards 65% 22% points are awarded for performance on three operational measures 70% 26% as follows: 75% 30% For epS, one point is awarded for growth of rpi 3% pa, with the Below 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 Median 100% 30% maximum 10 points awarded for rpi 8% pa or more.
Final TSR rank % For operating cash flow and revenue growth, one point is awarded for 75% achievement of target on a sliding scale up to 10 points tSr calculations are conducted independently by new Bridge Street, for 105% or more.
one point equates to 10% of the award vesting, with maximum 1.7 co-investment plan vesting for 21 points or more, with straight-line basis between to further encourage executive Directors and Senior executives these points.
to invest in the company, the co-investment plan cip offers the opportunity to earn performance-related matching shares this is shown in further detail in the table below: in return for their investment.
epS growth operating cash flow Revenue growth performance performance Key features of the cip performance points achieved points achieved points this helps align executives with shareholder interests by achieved awarded % of target awarded % of target awarded encouraging them to purchase BSkyB shares.
105% 105% rpi 8% pa 10 or more 10 or more 10 Around 136 executives are invited to buy shares.
90 executives rpi 7% pa 8 100% 8 100% 8 elected to do so, during the period under review, including both rpi 6% pa 6 95% 6 95% 6 of the executive Directors.
rpi 5% pa 4 90% 4 90% 4 rpi 4% pa 2 85% 2 85% 2 participants in the cip can invest an amount equivalent to up to rpi 3% pa 1 75% 1 75% 1 50% of their annual bonus in shares deferred for three years and Less than Less than Less than are granted a conditional matching award of shares based on the rpi 3% pa 0 75% 0 75% 0 amount invested.
2012 2013 awards Shares are matched up to a maximum of 1.5 shares : 1 share invested, the operational performance conditions of the Ltip award for and may vest depending on three-year epS growth.
one matching 2012 2015 are the same as the awards for 2010 2013, being epS share is awarded for rpi 3% pa, with 1.5 shares for rpi 6% pa as growth, operating cash flow and revenue growth over three years.
set out below: As previously disclosed, the company will reintroduce tSr for epS growth performance match awarded this scheme and 30% of the awards will vest on tSr performance.
annual average growth number of matching shares the epS growth target for the maximum award of 10 points was over three-year term awarded per deferred share set at rpi 5% pa equivalent to 26% growth in earnings over three Less than rpi 3% 0.0 years if rpi is 3% pa. this level of growth in earnings was set at rpi 3% 1.0 rpi 4% 1.17 a level which exceeds consensus research analysts estimates.
rpi 5% 1.33 rpi 6% 1.5 ii TSR performance 30% weighting for 2012 and 2013 awards More than rpi 6% 1.5 the companys tSr performance is measured relative to the tSr Straight-line interpolation between points.
of the constituents of the FtSe100.
1.8 other share plans if the companys tSr performance is below median, the tSr element i management long-term incentive plan the management ltip of the award lapses in full.
For median performance, 10% of an award the company also operates a Management Ltip.
Selected employees may vest, with 30% vesting for upper quartile performance.
vesting participate in the Management Ltip but this does not include any is on a straight-line basis, between these points as shown below.
executive Directors or Senior executives who participate in the Ltip.
Awards under this scheme are made at the discretion of the ceo.
annual Review 2012 BritiSh SKy BroADcAStinG GroUp pLc 43 Median Upper Quartile SummaRy RepoRt on DiRectoRS RemuneRation Summary report on Directors remuneration continued ii Sharesave Scheme the targets relevant to the calculation of the annual bonus are the Sharesave Scheme is open to UK and irish employees.
options as follows: are normally exercisable after either three or five years from the operating profit up 14% to 1,223 million.
the price at which options are offered is not less than operating cash flow up 11% to 1,313 million.
80% of the middle-market price on the dealing day immediately customer net growth for the year was 312,000. preceding the date of invitation.
it is the policy of the Group to make an invitation to employees to participate in the scheme Based on the companys record results, performance against the following the announcement of the year-end results.
currently key bonus measures and outperformance against its competition, approximately 5,450 employees participate in these schemes.
the maximum bonus will be paid out.
therefore, the ceo and cFo Jeremy Darroch and Andrew Griffith each have options granted received bonuses of 200% and 150% of salary respectively.
next under the Sharesave Scheme.
year customer net growth will be replaced by product net growth.
this will align the measures to the business strategy going forward iii 20 year award plan as product net growth is now the greater proportion of the value A one-off grant of 100 shares was made to all employees in 2009 added to the business.
Jeremy Darroch and Andrew Griffith were each awarded an option over 100 shares under the 2.3 ltip plan, these shares were delivered in February 2012. they were As disclosed in last years remuneration report, the three-year not subject to any further performance condition other than performance of the company over the 2008 to 2011 financial years continued employment.
resulted in the operational performance conditions being met in full and 21 points being achieved, resulting in 70% of that award vesting.
iv executive Share option Schemes executive Schemes the tSr performance over the three-year period ended 31 July 2011 Sky has in place Approved and Unapproved executive Share option came in the top quartile at 80.0% meaning that the full 30% of this Schemes under hMrc guidelines.
executive Directors and Senior element of the award vested, resulting in 100% total vesting of the executives who participate in the Ltip do not participate in the awards.
Subsequently on 31 July 2011 1,200,000 Ltip shares vested executive Schemes.
no options have been granted since 2004. to Jeremy Darroch and 640,000 Ltip shares vested to Andrew Andrew Griffith was granted awards under the executive Schemes Griffith.
outstanding awards under this plan are shown in the table prior to his appointment as an executive Director.
Section 2 perForMAnce 2.4 co-investment plan 2.1 performance graph the epS performance for the co-investment plan exceeded the the graph below shows the companys tSr for the five years to target of rpi 6%pa and the award will vest in full on 27 August 2012.
30 June 2012, measured as the value of a 100 holding in ordinary outstanding awards under this plan are shown in the table on shares at the start of the period.
the performance is shown relative page 47. to the indices which are considered to be the most relevant.
160 BSkyB Section 3 hoW DeciSionS Are MADe FTSE 100 140 FTSE 350 Media 3.1 membership of the Remuneration committee 120 During the year ended 30 June 2012, the committee, comprising the 100 following independent non-executive Directors, met four times: 80 Daniel rimer appointed chairman on 1 May 2012.
60 tracy clarke appointed a member on 11 June 2012.
20 nicholas Ferguson stepped down as chairman on 1 May 2012.
Source: Thomson Datastream each members attendance at these meetings is set out in the 2.2 annual bonus corporate Governance report in the Annual report.
As shown on page 35, our customer focus once again delivered strong financial results.
in a difficult consumer environment, customers the full terms of reference for the committee are available on the continue to recognise the great value we offer by choosing Sky companys corporate website.
over other providers and buying more services from us.
annual Review 2012 BritiSh SKy BroADcAStinG GroUp pLc 44 3.2 advisors each non-executive Director is engaged by the company for an new Bridge Street an Aon hewitt company nBS act as advisors initial term of three years.
reappointment for a further term is to the committee.
they advise on all aspects of senior executive not automatic, but may be mutually agreed.
remuneration and have no other role within the company.
nBS is now wholly-owned by Aon plc and while other companies within the Section 5 Service contrActS Aon group do undertake material non-remuneration work for the AnD DirectorS ShAre intereStS company, the committee does not believe that the independence 5.1 Service contracts executive Directors of nBS is compromised in any way.
executive Directors service agreements contain a maximum notice period of one year and a non-compete provision of one year.
in the the fee paid to nBS for remuneration advice was 153,000. event of termination, executive Directors may be entitled to up the chief executive and the Director for people provide information to one years salary and benefits.
no bonus is payable in respect as required.
the committee is also supported by the company of the notice period not worked by the individual.
in the event of Secretary, Finance and human resources functions.
no individuals termination for cause salary and benefits would be payable only are present nor provide any input regarding their own remuneration.
up to the actual date of termination.
3.3 Remuneration committee annual schedule Jeremy Darrochs initial service contract as the cFo of the company commenced on 16 August 2004. this was revised on 7 December Date Key agenda items 2007 when he became ceo.
September committee chairman meeting with Shareholders october Agree calendar for the year Any outside appointments for executive Directors are considered by review company performance Shareholder update the corporate Governance & nominations committee to ensure they January review the executive pay environment and would not cause a conflict of interest and, if not, are then approved governance issues including any changes in legislation by the chairman on behalf of the Board.
it is the companys policy incentive plan performance update that remuneration earned from such appointments may be retained Agree comparator groups for benchmarking analysis by the individual.
Jeremy Darroch is a non-executive Director of Shareholder update May review total remuneration and structure of Marks and Spencer Group plc and earned 85,000 for his packages against the comparator group appointment in the year ended 30 June 2012. incentive plan performance update June consider and review proposals for: 5.2 Share interests Any changes to executive Directors fixed pay the company encourages the non-executive Directors to build Achievement of bonus against company performance up a holding in the companys shares and has introduced a facility executive and Management share awards whereby non-executive Directors can elect to receive a portion ceos direct reports total remuneration executive Directors bonus targets for next financial year.
of their fees in BSkyB shares.
Shares are purchased on a monthly July review and agree: basis in the market.
the Directors who are deemed to be affiliated ceos direct reports pay packages with news corporation James Murdoch, David Devoe, thomas Share awards for all management Mockridge and Arthur Siskind are not allowed to participate in this remuneration report facility.
this is due to the fact that under rule 9 of the takeover incentive plan performance outcome code they would be deemed to be acting in concert with news corporation if they were to purchase shares in the company and Section 4 neD AnD chAirMAn FeeS this would place news corporation under an obligation to make a non-executive Directors fees are reviewed annually.
the current mandatory offer for all of the issued share capital of the company.
fees are set out in the table below: the interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Fee category per annum 2011 2012 2013 company during the year were: i chairman 25,000 25,000 450,000 At 30 June At 30 June i Deputy chairman 25,000 40,000 30,000 2011 2012 Basic fee 53,800 56,500 58,000 Jeremy Darroch 230,046 296,157 committee chairman 25,000 25,000 25,000 nicholas Ferguson 12,239 14,966 committee Members 10,000 10,000 10,000 Andrew Griffith 57,093 87,533 i Senior independent Director 20,000 20,000 40,000 Andrew higginson 4,485 5,639 Jacques nasser 2,840 3,904 i Following the appointment of nicholas Ferguson as chairman of the company Daniel rimer 9,876 15,836 the Board reviewed the fees paid to the chairman, Deputy chairman and Senior independent Director.
After taking independent advice it was agreed that the Lord Wilson of Dinton 2,764 3,803 fees for the chairman be increased to 450,000 effective from nicholas Martin Gilbert 971 Fergusons date of appointment as chairman on 3 April 2012. this increase Matthieu pigasse 1,058 reflects the time commitment and duties of the role.
the chairmans fee is inclusive of the basic fee and committee fees payable to directors.
the fees of This table is audited.
the Deputy chairman were set at 30,000 effective from 3 April 2012 and the fees payable to the Senior independent Director were set at 40,000 effective from 3 April 2012. annual Review 2012 BritiSh SKy BroADcAStinG GroUp pLc 45 SummaRy RepoRt on DiRectoRS RemuneRation Summary report on Directors remuneration continued except as disclosed in this report, no other Director held any interest in the share capital, including options, of the company, or of any subsidiary of the company, during the year.
All interests at the date shown are beneficial and there have been no changes between 1 July and 25 July 2012.
During the year ended 30 June 2012, the share price traded within the range of 614.0 and 850.5 pence per share.
the middle-market closing price on the last trading day of the financial year was 696.5 pence.
notes: i nicholas Ferguson was appointed chairman of the company on 3 April 2012 and stepped down as chairman of the remuneration committee on 1 May 2012. ii thomas Mockridge was appointed Deputy chairman of the company on 3 April 2012. iii A ndrew higginson was appointed Senior independent non-executive Director on 3 April 2012 and chairman of the corporate Governance & nominations committee on 3 April 2012, after becoming a member of the committee on 18 october 2011. iv tracy clarke was appointed as a Director of the company and a member of the remuneration committee and the Bigger picture committee on 11 June 2012. v Martin Gilbert was appointed as a Director of the company on 29 november 2011, as a member of the remuneration committee on 1 May 2012 and as a member of the Audit committee on 11 June 2012. vi James Murdoch stepped down as chairman of the company on 3 April 2012 and was appointed chairman of the Bigger picture committee on 1 May 2012. vii M atthieu pigasse was appointed as a Director of the company on 29 november 2011 and as a member of the Audit committee on 1 May 2012. viii D aniel rimer was appointed chairman of the remuneration committee and a member of the corporate Governance & nominations committee on 1 May 2012. ix Lord Wilson of Dinton stepped down as chairman of the corporate Governance & nominations committee on 1 May 2012. x Dame Gail rebuck stepped down as chairman and a member of the Bigger picture committee on 1 May 2012 and resigned as a Director of the company on 11 June 2012. xi David evans and Allen Leighton resigned as Directors of the company on 29 november 2011. annual Review 2012 BritiSh SKy BroADcAStinG GroUp pLc 46 Section 7 AUDiteD ShAre ScheMeS 7.1 long term incentive plan Details of all outstanding awards held under the Ltip are shown below: number of shares under award Market At Granted exercised Lapsed At price Date from 30 June during the during the during 30 June exercise at date of Date of which name of Director 2011 year year the year 2012 price exercise Award exercisable expiry date Jeremy Darroch 600,000 400,000 200,000 n a 6.7171 31.07.08 31.07.11 31.07.16 600,000 220,000 380,000 n a 7.4587 26.08.09 31.07.11 31.07.16 600,000 600,000 n a n a 29.07.10 29.07.13 29.07.18 900,000 900,000 n a n a 29.07.11 29.07.13 29.07.18 Andrew Griffith 320,000 320,000 n a 6.7171 31.07.08 31.07.11 31.07.16 320,000 80,000 n a 6.7171 26.08.09 31.07.11 31.07.16 240,000 n a 6.9906 320,000 320,000 n a n a 29.07.10 29.07.13 29.07.18 455,000 455,000 n a n a 29.07.11 29.07.13 29.07.18 This table is audited.
notes: The aggregate value received by the Directors on exercise of the LTIP before tax was 8,692,338 2011: nil.
See performance conditions for LTIP on page 43.
Following the vesting of awards, participants, still employed by the Company, will have five years to exercise their shares.
notes: See performance conditions for the co-investment plan on page 43. i Jeremy Darroch holds 79,848 shares as a match under this award.
ii Jeremy Darroch holds 59,667 shares as a match under this award.
iii Jeremy Darroch holds 66,011 shares as a match under this award.
iv Andrew Griffith holds 29,492 shares as a match under this award.
v Andrew Griffith holds 22,601 shares as a match under this award.
vi Andrew Griffith holds 30,440 shares as a match under this award.
annual Review 2012 BritiSh SKy BroADcAStinG GroUp pLc 47 SummaRy financial STaTemenT Summary financial statement Summary ConSolidated inCome Statement for the year ended 30 June 2012 2012 2011 m m Continuing operations Revenue 6,791 6,597 operating expense 5,548 5,524 Operating profit 1,243 1,073 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 39 34 investment income 18 9 Finance costs 111 111 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment 9 Profit before tax 1,189 1,014 taxation 283 256 Profit for the year from continuing operations 906 758 discontinued operations Profit for the year from discontinued operations 52 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 906 810 earnings per share from profit for the year in pence Basic Continuing operations 52.6p 43.5p discontinued operations 3.0p total 52.6p 46.5p Diluted Continuing operations 52.2p 43.0p discontinued operations 2.9p total 52.2p 45.9p Summary ConSolidated Statement oF ComPrehenSive inCome for the year ended 30 June 2012 2012 2011 m m Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 906 810 other comprehensive income amounts recognised directly in equity exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 2 8 Gain on revaluation of available-for-sale investments 8 59 Gain loss on cash flow hedges 99 130 tax on cash flow hedges 23 36 86 43 amounts reclassified and reported in the income statement loss gain on cash flow hedges 29 42 tax on cash flow hedges 7 11 transfer to income statement on disposal of foreign operations 4 22 35 Other comprehensive income loss for the year net of tax 64 8 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 970 802 annual Review 2012 BritiSh SKy BroadCaStinG GrouP PlC 48 Summary ConSolidated BalanCe Sheet as at 30 June 2012 2012 2011 m m non-current assets Goodwill 956 944 intangible assets 523 462 Property, plant and equipment 948 896 investments in joint ventures and associates 156 151 available-for-sale investments 228 215 deferred tax assets 16 69 trade and other receivables 17 13 derivative financial assets 390 275 3,234 3,025 Current assets inventories 456 375 trade and other receivables 621 592 Short-term deposits 710 430 Cash and cash equivalents 464 921 derivative financial assets 24 11 2,275 2,329 Total assets 5,509 5,354 Current liabilities Borrowings 8 8 trade and other payables 1,855 1,675 Current tax liabilities 189 187 Provisions 43 21 derivative financial liabilities 3 21 2,098 1,912 non-current liabilities Borrowings 2,398 2,325 trade and other payables 27 26 Provisions 12 9 derivative financial liabilities 29 47 deferred tax liabilities 1 2,467 2,407 Total liabilities 4,565 4,319 Share capital 837 876 Share premium 1,437 1,437 reserves 1,330 1,278 Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 944 1,035 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 5,509 5,354 this summary financial statement has been approved by the Board of directors on 25 July 2012 and was signed on its behalf by: Jeremy darroch andrew Griffith Chief executive officer Chief Financial officer annual Review 2012 BritiSh SKy BroadCaStinG GrouP PlC 49 SummaRy financial STaTemenT Summary financial statement continued Summary ConSolidated CaSh Flow Statement for the year ended 30 June 2012 2012 2011 m m Continuing operations Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 1,737 1,569 interest received 17 7 taxation paid 254 219 net cash from operating activities 1,500 1,357 Cash flows from investing activities dividends received from joint ventures and associates 39 29 net funding to joint ventures and associates 6 4 Proceeds on disposal of investments 32 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 228 197 Purchase of intangible assets 229 226 Purchase of subsidiaries net of cash and cash equivalents purchased 15 222 Purchase of available-for-sale investments 5 increase in short-term deposits 280 30 net cash used in investing activities 724 618 Cash flows from financing activities repayment of obligations under finance leases 1 1 Proceeds from disposal of shares in employee Share ownership Plan eSoP 10 32 Purchase of own shares for eSoP 161 90 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 546 interest paid 125 124 dividends paid to shareholders 410 353 net cash used in financing activities 1,233 536 net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations 457 203 Cash generated from discontinued operations 69 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 921 649 cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 464 921 annual Review 2012 BritiSh SKy BroadCaStinG GrouP PlC 50 Summary ConSolidated Statement oF ChanGeS in equity for the year ended 30 June 2012 available total Share Share eSoP hedging for-sale other retained shareholders capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserves earnings equity m m m m m m m m at 1 July 2010 876 1,437 47 77 98 362 2,243 560 Profit for the year 810 810 exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 8 8 transfer to income statement on disposal of foreign operations 4 4 revaluation of available-for-sale investments 59 59 recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 88 88 tax on items taken directly to equity 25 25 Total comprehensive income for the year 63 59 4 810 802 Share-based payment 60 70 10 tax on items taken directly to equity 19 19 Purchase of non-controlling interest 3 3 dividends 353 353 at 30 June 2011 876 1,437 107 14 157 358 1,700 1,035 Profit for the year 906 906 exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 2 2 revaluation of available-for-sale investments 8 8 recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 70 70 tax on items taken directly to equity 16 16 Total comprehensive income for the year 54 8 2 906 970 Share-based payment 5 80 85 tax on items taken directly to equity 10 10 Share buy-back programme Purchase of own shares for cancellation 39 39 546 546 Financial liability for close period purchases 10 10 dividends 410 410 at 30 June 2012 837 1,437 112 68 165 399 1,850 944 note 1: reConCiliation From ProFit For the year From ContinuinG oPerationS to adJuSted ProFit For the year From ContinuinG oPerationS 2012 2011 m m Profit for the year from continuing operations 906 758 net recovery of costs in relation to news Corporation proposal 31 15 Costs relating to restructuring exercise 11 living tv restructuring costs 26 recovery of import duty on set-top boxes 41 rCF fee write-off 5 remeasurement of all derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting and hedge ineffectiveness 19 18 Profit on disposal of joint venture 7 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment 9 i tax credit on settlement of liability 15 tax effect of above items 10 9 adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations 875 725 i tax credit arising on the settlement of the pre-acquisition tax liabilities of a subsidiary of the Group.
annual Review 2012 BritiSh SKy BroadCaStinG GrouP PlC 51 SummaRy financial STaTemenT Summary financial statement continued non-GaaP meaSureS all continuing operations reConCiliation oF oPeratinG ProFit to adJuSted oPeratinG ProFit and adJuSted eBitda for the year ended 30 June 2012 2012 2011 2010 m m m Operating profit 1,243 1,073 1,113 net recovery of costs in relation to news Corporation proposal 31 15 Costs relating to restructuring exercise 11 32 living tv restructuring costs 26 recovery of import duty on set-top boxes 41 litigation settlement income relating to claim against edS 269 legal costs relating to claim against edS 1 Cancellation of accounts payable on settlement of claim against edS 5 adjusted eBiTDa 1,567 1,405 1,185 depreciation and amortisation 344 332 338 i Costs relating to restructuring exercise included within depreciation and amortisation 25 adjusted operating profit 1,223 1,073 872 i included within depreciation and amortisation for the year ended 30 June 2010 is 25 million of expense relating to a restructuring exercise of which 22 million related to the impairment of assets associated with Picnic the potential launch of a subscription television service on dtt and 3 million related to restructuring costs.
reConCiliation oF CaSh Generated From oPerationS to adJuSted Free CaSh Flow for the year ended 30 June 2012 2012 2011 2010 m m m cash generated from operations 1,737 1,569 1,626 interest received 17 7 57 taxation paid 254 219 319 dividends received from joint ventures and associates 39 29 30 net funding to joint ventures and associates 6 4 1 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 228 197 246 Purchase of intangible assets 229 226 183 interest paid 125 124 156 free cash flow 951 835 808 recovery of import duty on set-top boxes after corporation tax 25 net recovery of costs in relation to news Corporation proposal after corporation tax 13 2 receipt on disposal closure of joint venture 6 3 Cash paid relating to restructuring exercise 3 6 living tv restructuring costs 26 litigation settlement income relating to claim against edS after corporation tax 229 legal costs relating to claim against edS 1 adjusted free cash flow 910 869 577 averaGe revenue Per uSer arPu for the year ended 30 June 2012 2012 2011 2010 aRPu as previously reported n a 539 508 i impact of Standalone home Communications 5 ii Benefit of zero-vat magazine related income 3 4 iii elimination of timing difference related to magazine closure 7 aRPu 548 538 504 i we have restated arPu to include standalone home communications customers.
ii we previously recognised the benefit arising from the zero rated vat treatment on a small portion of customer revenue attributable to the Sky magazine.
Following closure of the magazine we have restated the comparatives to present on a like-for-like basis.
iii F ollowing our decision to close the Sky customer magazine, a one-off timing upside was reversed which related to revenue recognition of the magazine element of subscription revenue.
this equated to a 7 reduction to arPu in 2011. annual Review 2012 BritiSh SKy BroadCaStinG GrouP PlC 52 although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in Summary FinanCial Statement such forward looking statements are reasonable, these statements the summary financial statement, summary directors report and and all other forward looking statements contained in this summary report on directors remuneration contained within this document are not guarantees of future performance and are subject document are only a summary of the information provided in the to risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond consolidated financial statements and directors report contained our control, are difficult to predict and could cause actual results to within the annual report.
the auditors report on the Companys differ materially from those expressed or implied or forecast in the annual accounts was unqualified.
the information has been forward looking statements.
these factors include, but are not limited prepared in accordance with the accounting policies as set out in to, those risks that are highlighted in the annual report in the section the annual report.
these summaries do not contain sufficient entitled directors report Business review Principal risks & information to allow as full an understanding of the results and uncertainties, and information on the significant risks and state of affairs of the Group as would be allowed by the annual uncertainties associated with our business is described therein.
report, which contains more detail.
a copy of the annual report can be obtained, free of charge, by writing to the Company Secretary at no part of these results constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, Grant way, isleworth, middlesex tw7 5qd or it can be downloaded an invitation or inducement to invest in the Company or any other from the Companys website at www.
to elect to entity and must not be relied upon in any way in connection with receive the annual report for future years, write to equiniti limited, any investment decision.
all forward looking statements in this aspect house, Spencer road, lancing, west Sussex Bn99 6da.
document are based on information known to us on the date hereof.
except as required by law, we undertake no obligation whilst the financial information included in this summary financial publicly to update or revise any forward looking statements, statement has been prepared in accordance with international whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Financial reporting Standards iFrS as adopted for use in the european union and as issued by the international accounting uSe oF meaSureS not deFined under iFrS Standards Board, this summary financial statement does not itself this annual review contains certain information on the Groups contain sufficient information to comply with iFrS.
financial position, operating results and cash flows that have been the Group maintains a 52 or 53-week fiscal year ending on the derived from measures calculated in accordance with iFrS.
this Sunday nearest to 30 June in each year.
in fiscal 2012, this date information should not be read in isolation of the related iFrS measure.
was 1 July 2012, this being a 52-week year fiscal year 2011: 3 July 2011, 53-week year.
For convenience purposes, the Group continues to date its consolidated financial statements as at 30 June.
Forward looKinG StatementS this document contains certain forward looking statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations and business, and our strategy, plans and objectives.
these statements include, without limitation, those that express forecasts, expectations and projections, such as forecasts, expectations and projections with respect to new products and services, the potential for growth of free-to-air and pay television, fixed line telephony, broadband and bandwidth requirements, advertising growth, direct-to-home dth customer growth, over-the-top ott customer growth, multiroom, Sky anytime tv, Sky anytime, now tv, Sky Go, Sky, Sky hd and other services penetration, churn, dth and other revenue, profitability and margin growth, cash flow generation, programming costs, subscriber management and supply chain costs, administration costs and other costs, marketing expenditure, capital expenditure programmes and proposals for returning capital to shareholders.
annual Review 2012 BritiSh SKy BroadCaStinG GrouP PlC 53 Glossary of terms Glossary of terms Useful definitions Description Adjusted basic earnings Adjusted profit after tax for the year divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares.
per share EPS Adjusted operating profit Operating profit excluding exceptional items.
Adjusted operating margin is stated as a percentage of and margin adjusted revenue.
Adjusted profit for the year Profit for the year adjusted to remove exceptional items and related tax effects.
ARPU Average Revenue Per User: the amount spent by the Groups residential customers in the quarter, divided by the average number of residential customers in the quarter, annualised.
Churn The number of total customers over a given period that terminate their subscription in its entirety, net of former customers who reinstated their subscription in that period where such reinstatement is within a 12-month period of the termination of their original subscription, expressed as an annualised percentage of total average customers for the period.
DTH Direct-to-Home: the transmission of satellite services and functionality with reception through a minidish.
DTH customer means a subscriber to one or more of our retailed packages of television channels made available via DTH.
EBITDA Earnings before joint ventures, interest, profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment, taxation, depreciation and amortisation is calculated as operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Exceptional items Items that arise from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group, but which management believes should be separately identified to help explain underlying performance.
Free cash flow The amount of cash generated by Sky after meeting obligations for interest and tax, after all capital expenditure and net cash flows relating to joint ventures and associates.
Multiroom Installation of an additional set-top box in the household of an existing DTH customer.
Net debt Borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments.
NOW TV An internet streaming service available to anyone in the UK with an internet connection regardless of ISP.
At launch on 17 July 2012, the service was available on devices including PC, Mac and selected Android Smartphones with other devices and platforms to follow.
Sky Go Skys retailed packages of television channels and on demand content made available via a broadband connection, including the version made available to mobile devices via a wireless or 3G connection.
Sky HD Skys fully-integrated Personal Video Recorder PVR and satellite decoder with High Definition capability.
Sky Store Our pay-per-view, on demand movies rental service available via Sky Anytime, Sky Anytime and Sky Go.
Standalone home Skys retailed packages of broadband, talk and line rental when taken without a television subscription communications package.
Triple play Customers taking all three of TV, broadband and telephony.
TV customer A paying subscriber to one or more of our DTH or Sky Go services.
Viewing share Number of people viewing a channel as a percentage of total viewing television audience.
annUal review 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 54 inDepenDent aUDitors statement to the members of british sky broaDcastinG GroUp plc Independent Auditors statement to the members of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc We have examined the summary financial statement for the year We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review ended 30 June 2012 which comprises the Summary Consolidated as described in the contents section, and consider the implications Income Statement, Summary Consolidated Statement of for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements Comprehensive Income, Summary Consolidated Balance Sheet, or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Summary Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Summary We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, Note 1, Summary by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the companys full Directors Report and the Summary Directors Remuneration Report.
annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinion This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in on those financial statements, the Directors Remuneration Report accordance with section 428 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our work and the Directors Report.
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an OPINION auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report and the anyone other than the Company and the Companys members Directors Remuneration Report of British Sky Broadcasting Group as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, plc for the year ended 30 June 2012 and complies with the or for the opinion we have formed.
applicable requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR William Touche Senior Statutory Auditor The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency 25 July 2012 of the summary financial statement within the Annual Review with the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
annUal review 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 55 shareholDer information Shareholder information REGISTRAR OVERSEAS DIVIDEND PAYMENTS The Companys shareholder register is maintained by its Registrar, A service has been established to provide shareholders in over 30 Equiniti.
Information on how to manage your shareholdings can be countries worldwide with the opportunity to receive their dividends found at https: help.
The pages at this web address in their local currency.
For a small flat-rate fee, shareholders can provide the following: have their dividends automatically converted from Sterling and paid into their nominated bank account, normally within five working Answers to commonly asked questions regarding shareholder days of the dividend payment date.
For further details, please registration: contact Equiniti.
Links to downloadable forms, guidance notes, and Company history fact sheets: ELECTRONIC SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION A choice of contact methods via email, phone, or writing.
All BSkyB shareholder documents are available online.
To allow us Alternatively, shareholders can contact Equiniti in relation to all to provide you with company information quickly, efficiently and in administrative enquiries relating to their shares, such as a change an environmentally friendly way, we recommend that you elect to of personal details, the loss of a share certificate or an out-of-date receive Electronic Communications whereby we will contact you dividend cheque.
with relevant information directly by email.
Registering for Electronic Communication is very straight forward, and is done via Shareview, Shareholders can contact Equiniti at: a secure internet-based platform provided by our registrar Equiniti.
Equiniti Limited Just go to www.
co. uk and follow the Register link in the Aspect House top left corner.
You will need your Shareholder Reference Number, Spencer Road which can be found on your Share Certificate.
Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0871 384 2091 Telephone number from outside the UK: 44 121 415 7567 Calls to the above number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR COMPANY SECRETARY Results for the financial year ending 30 June 2013 will be published: Dave Gormley 1 November 2012 COMPANY REGISTERED OFFICE 31 January 2013 2 May 2013 Grant Way 31 July 2013 Isleworth provisional dates Middlesex TW7 5QD DIVIDENDS Telephone: 0333 100 0333 As a BSkyB shareholder you have the opportunity to choose to Overseas: 44 333 100 0333 invest your cash dividend in further BSkyB shares via the dividend re-investment plan.
Alternatively, you can have your dividend paid COMPANY REGISTRATION NUMBER directly to your bank account.
If you would like more information about your choices and to download the forms please go to 2247735 www.
Alternatively, you can always phone our registrar, Equiniti, who will be happy to help.
annUal review 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 56 The 2012 BSkyB Annual Review and Annual Report are available to view or download online at www.
com corporate You can find out more about Skys contribution to uK and irish life at www.
com thebiggerpicture and download the Summary Bigger picture Report 2012. if you would like advice regarding accessibility of this document, please contact 08442 410333 textphone 08442 410535 This report is printed on Heaven 42 paper which is FSC Certified.
Fulmar Colour are iSO14001 certified, Carbon neutral, Alcohol Free, FSC and peFC chain of Custody certified.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc AnnuAl Review 2012 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Grant way, isleworth Middlesex Tw7 5QD Telephone 0333 100 0333 Facsimile 0333 100 0444 www.
com Registered in england no.
