Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information Annual General Meeting Electronic shareholder communication The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and 1 November 2012 at 11:00am at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference the Companys articles of association, the Company is permitted Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
to use its corporate website as the main way to communicate with shareholders, sending out Annual Reports only to those Financial calendar who have opted to receive a paper copy.
This reduces our impact Results for the financial year ending 30 June 2013 will be on the environment, minimises waste and reduces costs.
It also published: enables shareholders to keep updated with developments at Sky as they happen by accessing our website.
1 November 2012 31 January 2013 Shareholders who have opted to receive shareholder 2 May 2013 communications in paper form are encouraged to receive these 31 July 2013 electronically in future by registering at www.
Shareholders can also change their instructions at any time by provisional dates.
The Sky website Shareholders are encouraged to visit the Sky website www.
Dividends com which has a wealth of information about the Company.
Shareholders can have their dividends paid directly into a UK There is a section designed specifically for investors at www.
bank or building society account with the tax voucher sent direct com corporate where investor and media information can be to their registered address.
Please contact Equiniti for a dividend accessed.
This years Annual Report and Annual Review and prior mandate form.
year documents can be viewed.
The Company also operates a consolidated tax voucher service Share price information for those shareholders who have chosen to receive dividends The Companys share price can be found on the Companys directly into their bank account.
A single consolidated tax voucher corporate website at www.
will be mailed by the end of November each year, to coincide with the final dividend payment.
Full details are available at Shareholder enquiries www.
The Companys shareholder register is maintained by its Registrar, Equiniti.
Information on how to manage your shareholdings can Overseas dividend payments be found at https: help.
The pages at this web A service has been established to provide shareholders in address provide the following: over 30 countries worldwide with the opportunity to receive their dividends in their local currency.
For a small flat-rate fee, Answers to commonly asked questions regarding shareholder shareholders can have their dividends automatically converted registration: from Sterling and paid into their nominated bank account, normally within five working days of the dividend payment date.
Links to downloadable forms, guidance notes, and Company For further details, please contact Equiniti on 44 121 415 7567. history fact sheets: Dividend Reinvestment Plan A choice of contact methods via email, phone, or writing.
The Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP which Alternatively, shareholders can contact Equiniti in relation to all enables shareholders to buy the Companys shares on the London administrative enquiries relating to their shares, such as a change stock market with their cash dividend.
Further information about the of personal details, the loss of a share certificate or an out-of DRIP is available from Equiniti.
The helpline number is 0871 384 2268 date dividend cheque.
from inside the UK and 44 121 415 7173 from overseas.
Shareholders can contact Equiniti at: ShareGift Equiniti Limited Shareholders who only have a small number of shares whose Aspect House value makes it uneconomic to sell them may wish to consider Spencer Road donating them to charity through ShareGift, the independent Lancing charity share donation scheme registered charity no.
West Sussex BN99 6DA Further information about ShareGift may be obtained from Telephone: 0871 384 2091 Equiniti or from ShareGift on 020 7930 3737 or at www.
Telephone number from outside the UK: 44 121 415 7567 org.
There are no implications for capital gains tax purposes no Calls to the above number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to Other telephony providers costs may vary.
Lines are open from 8.30am to claim income tax relief.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 129 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information continued Shareholder fraud Solicitors Fraud is on the increase and many shareholders are targeted Herbert Smith LLP Exchange House every year.
If you have any reason to believe that you may have Primrose Street been the target of a fraud, or attempted fraud in relation to your London shareholding, please contact Equiniti immediately.
To reduce the EC2A 2HS risk of fraud happening to you please see our list of preventing shareholder fraud tips in the shareholder information section of our website at www.
American Depositary Receipts ADRs The Companys ADR programme trades on the over-the-counter OTC market in the US.
The Companys ADRs are quoted on the OTC markets highest tier, International PremierQX.
More information can be obtained from, http: www.
ADRs are quoted in US dollars and trade just like any other US security.
The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for which The Bank of New York Mellon acts as Depositary.
One ADR represents four ordinary shares.
All enquiries relating to the Companys ADRs should be addressed to: BNY Mellon PO Box 358516 Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516 USA US residents: 888 269 2377 If resident outside the US: 1 201 680 6825 email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com Companys registered office: Grant Way Isleworth Middlesex TW7 5QD Telephone 0333 100 0333 Overseas 44 333 100 0333 Company registration number 2247735 Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square London EC4A 3BZ Principal bankers The Royal Bank of Scotland plc St. Andrews Square Edinburgh EH2 2YB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 130
