Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Consolidated Group and Parent Company Financial Statements of International Personal Finance plc and its subsidiaries IPF or the Group have been prepared in accordance with European Union endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2012 but do not have any impact on the Group: s &23 AMENDMENT @3EVERE HYPERINmATION AND REMOVAL OF lXED DATES FOR lRST TIME ADOPTERS s &23 AMENDMENT @$ISCLOSURES n TRANSFERS OF lNANCIAL ASSETS AND s !3 AMENDMENT @$EFERRED TAX RECOVERY OF UNDERLYING ASSETS The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group: s !MENDMENTS TO &23 &23 AND !3 @ NVESTMENT ENTITIES s !NNUAL IMPROVEMENT TO &23S CYCLE s &23 AMENDMENT @'OVERNMENT LOANS s &23 AMENDMENT @$ISCLOSURES n OFFSETTING lNANCIAL ASSETS AND lNANCIAL LIABILITIES s &23 @&INANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 4HIS STANDARD IS THE lRST STEP IN THE PROCESS TO REPLACE !3 @&INANCIAL instruments: recognition and measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and is likely to affect the Groups accounting for its financial assets.
The standard is not applicable until 1 January 2015 and has not yet been endorsed by the European Union.
The Group is in the process of assessing IFRS 9s full impact: s &23 @#ONSOLIDATED &INANCIAL 3TATEMENTS s &23 @ OINT ARRANGEMENTS s &23 @$ISCLOSURE OF INTERESTS IN OTHER ENTITIES s &23 @&AIR VALUE MEASUREMENT s !3 AMENDMENT @0RESENTATION OF ITEMS OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME s !3 REVISED @%MPLOYEE BENElTS s !3 REVISED @3EPARATE &INANCIAL 3TATEMENTS s !3 REVISED @ NVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES AND s !3 AMENDMENT @ FFSETTING lNANCIAL ASSETS AND lNANCIAL LIABILITIES Accounting convention The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments at fair value.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently, are set out in the following paragraphs.
Going concern The directors have, at the time of approving the Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the Financial Statements.
Further detail is contained in the directors statement on page 31.
Consolidation These Consolidated Financial Statements include the financial results of all companies which are controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
All companies are 100% owned by IPF plc Group companies.
A list of the principal subsidiaries in the Group is included in note 12.
Finance costs Finance costs comprise the interest on external borrowings which are recognised on an effective interest rate EIR basis, and gains or losses on derivative contracts taken to the income statement.
76 International Personal Finance plc Financial Statements Segment reporting The Groups operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of operating segments, has been identied as the Board.
A geographical segment is a component of the Group that operates within a particular economic environment and that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of components operating in other economic environments.
Revenue Revenue, which excludes value added tax and intra-Group transactions, comprises revenue earned on amounts receivable from customers.
Revenue on customer receivables is calculated using an EIR.
The EIR is calculated using estimated cash ows, being contractual payments adjusted for the impact of customers paying early but excluding the anticipated impact of customers paying late or not paying at all.
Directly attributable issue costs are also taken into account in calculating the EIR.
Interest income continues to be accrued on impaired receivables using the original EIR applied to the loans carrying value.
The accounting for amounts receivable from customers is considered further below.
Leases The leases entered into by the Group are solely operating leases.
Costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Leases are classied as operating leases whenever the terms of the lease do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
Other operating costs Other operating costs include agent commission, marketing costs and foreign exchange gains and losses.
All other costs are included in administrative expenses.
Share-based payments The cost of providing share-based payments to employees is charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the award.
The corresponding credit is made to retained earnings.
The cost is based on the fair value of awards granted, determined using a Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the income statement such that the cumulative expense reects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
In the Parent Company Financial Statements, in accordance with IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions, the fair value of providing share-based payments to employees of subsidiary companies is treated as an increase in the investment in subsidiaries.
Exceptional items The Group classies as exceptional those significant items that are one-off in nature and do not reect the underlying performance of the Group.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 77 Accounting policies continued Financial instruments Amounts receivable from customers All customer receivables are initially recognised at the amount loaned to the customer plus directly attributable incremental issue costs.
After initial recognition, customer receivables are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is the amount of the customer receivable at initial recognition less customer repayments, plus revenue earned calculated using the EIR, less any deduction for impairment.
Customer receivables are classied as loans and receivables in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
All customer receivables are assessed for impairment each week.
Customer accounts that are in arrears those that have missed any portion of a contractual payment are deemed to have demonstrated evidence of impairment and are subject to an impairment review.
Impairment is calculated using actuarial models which use historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount and timing of future cash ows from each arrears stage.
These estimated future cash ows are discounted to a present value using the original EIR and this gure is compared with the balance sheet value.
The unwinding of the discounted value used to compute the impairment is reected in the interest charged on the impaired loan.
Impairment charges in respect of customer receivables are charged to the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand.
Cash also includes those balances held by agents for operational purposes.
Bank overdrafts are presented in current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts, to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Groups underlying business operations.
No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken.
All derivative financial instruments are assessed against the hedge accounting criteria set out in IAS 39.
The majority of the Groups derivatives are cash ow hedges of highly probable forecast transactions and meet the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39.
Derivatives are initially recognised at the fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at each reporting date at their fair value.
The Group also uses some foreign currency contracts which do not qualify for hedge accounting as they do not hedge a specic future transaction.
These contracts are used to reduce the impact of exchange rate uctuations on the reported results.
Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, movements in their fair value are recognised immediately within the income statement.
The Group discontinued its policy of hedging foreign currency profits from 2013.
For derivatives that are designated as cash ow hedges and where the hedge accounting criteria are met, the effective portion of changes in the fair value is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement as part of finance costs.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recognised in the income statement when the income or expense on the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
The Group discontinues hedge accounting when: s IT IS EVIDENT FROM TESTING THAT A DERIVATIVE IS NOT OR HAS CEASED TO BE HIGHLY EFFECTIVE AS A HEDGE s THE DERIVATIVE EXPIRES OR IS SOLD TERMINATED OR EXERCISED OR s THE UNDERLYING HEDGED ITEM MATURES OR IS SOLD OR REPAID Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of any transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the expected life of the borrowings using the EIR.
Borrowings are classied as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
78 International Personal Finance plc Financial Statements Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise computer software.
Computer software is capitalised as an intangible asset on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire or develop the specic software and bring it into use.
All intangible assets are internally generated.
Computer software is amortised within administrative expenses on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful economic life which is generally estimated to be five years.
The residual values and economic lives are reviewed by management at each balance sheet date.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, where cost is equal to the fair value of the consideration used to acquire the asset.
Investments are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the investment carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets value in use or its fair value less costs to sell.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less subsequent depreciation and impairment.
Cost represents invoiced cost plus any other costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Depreciation is calculated to write down assets to their estimated realisable value over their useful economic lives.
The following are the principal bases used: Category Depreciation rate Method Fixtures and ttings 10% Straight-line Equipment including computer hardware 20% to 33.3% Straight-line Motor vehicles 25% Reducing balance The residual value and useful economic life of all assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
All items of property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised through the income statement for the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets value in use or its fair value less costs to sell.
Share capital IPF plc has only ordinary share capital.
These shares, with a nominal value of 10 pence per share, are classied as equity.
Shares held by employee trust The net amount paid by the employee trust to acquire shares is held in a separate reserve and shown as a reduction in equity.
Foreign currency translation Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates the functional currency.
The Groups financial information is presented in sterling.
Transactions that are not denominated in a subsidiarys functional currency are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences arising on translation are charged or credited to the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash ow hedges.
The income statements of the Group subsidiaries none of which has the currency of a hyperinationary economy that have a functional currency different from sterling are translated into sterling at the average exchange rate and the balance sheets are translated at the exchange rates ruling at each balance sheet date.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 79 Accounting policies continued Upon consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive income.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of current and deferred tax.
Current tax is calculated based on taxable profit for the year using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Employee benets Dened benefit pension plan The charge or credit in the income statement in respect of the dened benefit pension plan comprises the actuarially assessed current service cost of working employees together with the interest charge on pension liabilities offset by the expected return on pension scheme assets.
All charges or credits are allocated to administrative expenses.
The asset or obligation recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the dened benefit pension plan is the fair value of the plans assets less the present value of the dened benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the dened benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The Parent Company share of the dened benefit retirement obligation is based on the proportion of total Group contributions made by the Parent Company.
Dened contribution plans Contributions to dened contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement on an accruals basis.
80 International Personal Finance plc Financial Statements Key assumptions and estimates In applying the accounting policies set out above, the Group makes significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as follows: Amounts receivable from customers The Group reviews its portfolio of customer loans and receivables for impairment every week.
The Group makes judgments to determine whether there is objective evidence which indicates that there has been an adverse effect on expected future cash ows.
For the purposes of assessing the impairment of customer loans and receivables, customers are categorised into arrears stages as this is considered to be the most reliable predictor of future payment performance.
The level of impairment is calculated using actuarial models which use historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount and timing of future cash ows from each arrears stage of each product.
The impairment models are reviewed regularly to take account of the current economic environment and recent customer payment performance.
However, on the basis that the payment performance of customers could be different from the assumptions used in estimating future cash ows, an adjustment to the carrying value of amounts receivable from customers may be required.
To the extent that the net present value of estimated cash ows differs by 5%, it is estimated that amounts receivable from customers would be 32.5 million higher lower 2011: 28.0 million.
IAS 39 requires that all of the cash ows directly associated with financial instruments held at amortised cost must be recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
When this approach is applied to a customer loan portfolio, judgments must be made to estimate the average life of that portfolio.
These judgments are applied, taking into account factors including the terms of the particular products and historical repayment data.
These estimates are considered and updated as required in each reporting period to reect the customer loan portfolios expected performance.
Retirement benefit asset or obligation A number of judgments and estimates are made in assessing the amount of the retirement benefit asset or obligation at each balance sheet date, the key ones being discount rate, mortality rates, investment returns, salary ination and the rate of pension increases.
These judgments and estimates are derived after taking into account the requirements of IAS 19 Retirement benefit obligations and after taking the advice of the Groups actuaries.
Further details on the key assumptions used are set out in note 24.
Tax The Group is subject to tax in a number of international jurisdictions as well as the UK.
In some cases, due to the unusual features of home credit, the tax treatment of certain items cannot be determined with certainty until the operation has been subject to a tax audit.
In some instances, this can be some years after the item has first been reected in the Financial Statements.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit and enquiry issues based on an assessment of whether such liabilities are likely to fall due.
If the outcome of such audits is that the final liability is different to the amount originally estimated, such differences will be recognised in the period in which the audit or enquiry is determined.
Any differences may necessitate a material adjustment to the level of tax balances held in the balance sheet.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 81
