Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements This announcement includes statements that are forward-looking in nature.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Except as required by the Listing Rules and applicable law, Britvic undertakes no obligation to update or change any forward-looking statements to reect events occurring after the date such statements are published.
All numbers and comparisons are quoted before exceptional and other items unless otherwise stated.
Volume and ARP average realised price are adjusted for the impact of double concentrate on Robinsons and MiWadi to provide a meaningful comparison and comparisons are on a constant currency basis.
Numbers not adjusted for double concentrate are available at the Investor Centre Results and Presentations section on the Britvic Investor Relations website at www.
Constant currency growth removes the impact of exchange rate movements during the period by retranslating prior year foreign currency denominated results of the group at current period exchange rates.
EBITA is dened as operating profit before exceptional and other items and amortisation.
Only amortisation attributable to intangibles on acquisition is added back, in the period this is 2.9m 2011: 3.1m AER.
EBITA margin is the EBITA number as a proportion of group revenues.
Adjusted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing adjusted earnings by the average number of shares during the period.
Adjusted earnings is dened as the profit loss attributable to ordinary equity shareholders before exceptional and other items adjusted for the adding back of acquisition related amortisation.
Average number of shares during the period is dened as the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period excluding any own shares held by Britvic that are used to satisfy various employee share-based incentive programmes.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for adjusted earnings per share for the period was 241.6m 2011: 240.4m.
Underlying free cash ow is dened as net cash ow excluding movements in borrowings, dividend payments, exceptional and other items.
Group adjusted net debt is dened as group net debt, adding back the impact of derivatives hedging the balance sheet debt.
Underlying return on invested capital ROIC - ROIC is dened as operating profit after applying the tax rate for the period, stated before exceptional and other items, as a percentage of invested capital.
Invested capital is dened as non-current assets plus current assets less current liabilities, excluding all balances relating to interest bearing liabilities and all other assets or liabilities associated with the nancing and capital structure of the group and excluding any deferred tax balances and effective hedges relating to interest-bearing liabilities.
The ROIC has been re-stated for prior year as it now includes the reduction in the asset base taken in Ireland 2010 and the results and assets of Britvic France, both of which were previously excluded from the measure to ensure a like for like comparison.
Effective Date the date upon which the Merger becomes Effective, Effective in the context of the Merger: a if the Merger is implemented by way of the Scheme, the Scheme having become effective pursuant to its terms: or b if the Merger is implemented by way of a Merger Offer, such Merger Offer having been declared and become unconditional in all respects in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
Scheme Record Time - the time and date specified in the Scheme Document expected to be 6.00 p. m. on the business day immediately prior to the date of the Court Hearing.
All numbers in this announcement other than where stated or included within the financial statements are disclosed before exceptional and other items.
The auditors have reported on the 2012 and 2011 accounts.
Their reports for both years were unqualied and did not contain statements under section 498 2 or 3 of the Companies Act 2006.
104 Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 Britvic takes care of the environment by choosing pureprint environmental print technology.
All the electricity used in the production of this report was generated from renewable sources and vegetable oil based inks were used throughout.
The printer is a CarbonNeutral company and certicated to Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and registered to EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
The paper used in this production is made from 100% recycled waste with FSC certication.
Designed by sg design [sg-design.
co. uk] Photography by ben sher [bensherphotography.
com] Br itvic plc Breakspear Park Breakspear Way Hemel Hempstead HP2 4TZ Tel: 44 0 121 711 1102 www.
