overview business review governance financial stat financial statements ements shareholder information 3.
Accounting policies continued Derecognition of financial instruments The derecognition of a financial asset takes place when the contractual rights to the cash ows expire, or when the contractual rights to the cash ows have either been transferred or an obligation has been assumed to pass them through to a third party and the group does not retain substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset.
Financial liabilities are only derecognised when they are extinguished, that is, when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Share-based payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted.
Fair value is determined by an external valuer using an appropriate pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares market conditions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fullled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number of equity instruments that, in the opinion of the directors and based on the best available estimate at that date, will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described below.
The Consolidated Income Statement charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Taxation The current income tax expense is based on taxable profits for the period, after any adjustments in respect of prior periods.
It is calculated using taxation rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and is measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken for deferred tax assets, on all material temporary differences between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements.
The principal temporary differences arise from accelerated capital allowances, provisions for pensions and other post-retirement benets, provisions for share-based payments and utilised losses incurred in overseas jurisdiction.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled based on the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Pensions and post-retirement benets The group operates a number of pension schemes.
These include both dened benefit and dened contribution plans.
Dened benefit plans The dened benefit pension liability or asset in the balance sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the dened benefit obligation less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Plan assets are measured at fair value based on market price information and in the case of quoted securities, the published bid price.
Plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The movement in the dened benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet consists of four main elements.
s 4HE SERVICE COST OF PROVIDING PENSION BENElTS TO EMPLOYEES FOR THE PERIOD WHICH IS RECOGNISED IN THE #ONSOLIDATED NCOME 3TATEMENT s !
CHARGE REPRESENTING THE UNWINDING OF THE DISCOUNT ON THE PLAN LIABILITIES DURING THE YEAR WHICH IS INCLUDED WITHIN ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES s !
CREDIT REPRESENTING THE EXPECTED RETURN ON THE PLAN ASSETS DURING THE YEAR WHICH IS INCLUDED WITHIN ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES This credit is based on the market value of the plan assets, and expected rates of return, at the beginning of the period.
s !CTUARIAL GAINS AND LOSSES 4HESE MAY RESULT FROM DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE EXPECTED RETURN AND THE ACTUAL RETURN ON PLAN ASSETS differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan liabilities and actual experience during the year: or changes in the actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the plan liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
