overview business review gove governance rnance financial statements shareholder information Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as dened by the Companies Act 2006 of which the auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all steps that ought to be taken by a director to make himself aware of and to establish that the auditors are aware of any relevant audit information.
A copy of the financial statements is placed on the companys website.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern In presenting the financial statements on a going concern basis, the directors have considered both the business activities and principal risks and uncertainties as set out in the Business Overview and Business Review on pages 1 to 21.
In addition, the directors have considered the following factors: the groups ability to generate cash ows, the financial resources available to it, headroom under bank covenants, and exposure to credit risk.
Based on the groups cash ow forecasts and projections, the board is satisfied that the group will be able to operate within the level of its facilities for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the group continues to apply the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP were re-appointed auditors of the company at the companys last AGM held on 25 January 2012 to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the company.
Subject to the auditors willingness to accept re-appointment as auditors of the company at the relevant time, a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be contained in the next notice of AGM, if held, and put to the shareholders at that meeting.
By Order of the Board Clare Thomas Company secretary 26 November 2012 Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 29
