overview business review governance financial stat financial statements ements shareholder information overview business review governance financial statements shareholder information notes to the company financial statements 1.
Parent Undertaking The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for the measurement of derivative instruments at fair value.
They have been drawn up to comply with applicable accounting standards in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
These accounts have been prepared under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and present information about the Company as an individual undertaking, and not about its Group.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual profit and loss account and related notes.
The Company is exempt from the requirements of Financial Reporting Standard No.
Accounting Policies Investments The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost less any provisions made for impairment.
In respect of FRS 20 Share-based payment, the Company records an increase in its investment in subsidiaries to reect the share-based compensation expense recorded by its subsidiaries.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method or at fair value.
Finance costs arising from the outstanding loan balance and finance charges are charged to the profit and loss account using an effective interest rate method.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Issued share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Dividends Dividend income is recognised when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are declared.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised, subject to certain exceptions, in respect of all material timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the Financial Statements and for tax purposes.
Those timing differences recognised include accelerated capital allowances, unrelieved tax losses and short term timing differences.
Timing differences not recognised include those relating to the revaluation of xed assets in the absence of a commitment to sell the assets, the gain on sale of assets rolled into replacement assets and the distribution of profits from overseas subsidiaries in the absence of any commitment by the subsidiary to make the distribution.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered and to the extent that it is regarded as probable that future taxable profits will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Britvic plc Britvic plc Annual R Annual Report 20 eport 201 12 2 95 95
