overview business review governance financial stat financial statements ements shareholder information 3.
Accounting policies continued Goodwill While the original acquisition of Britannia Soft Drinks Limited was accounted for under the merger method, business combinations on or after 4 October 2004 have been accounted for under IFRS 3 Business Combinations using the acquisition method.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired discount on acquisition is credited to the Consolidated Income Statement in the period of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the group of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combinations synergies by management.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the group of cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units are less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets Trademarks, franchise rights and customer lists Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at the fair value of consideration paid.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation or impairment losses.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill, at fair value at the date of acquisition, if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either nite or indefinite.
Amortisation is charged on assets with nite lives on a straight-line basis over a period appropriate to the assets useful life.
The carrying values of intangible assets with nite and indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are also tested for impairment annually either individually or if the intangible asset does not generate cash ows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets as part of the cash generating unit to which it belongs.
Such intangibles are not amortised.
The useful life of an intangible asset with an indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether indefinite life assessment continues to be supportable.
If not, the change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to nite is made on a prospective basis.
Software Costs Software expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after its technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated.
Acquired computer software licences and software developed in-house are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives of three to seven years.
Impairment of assets The group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects senior managements estimate of the cost of capital.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such an indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Goodwill impairment losses cannot subsequently be reversed.
