financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General information Britvic plc the company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
It is a public limited company domiciled in England & Wales and its ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Britvic plc and its subsidiaries together the group operate in the soft drinks manufacturing and distribution industry, principally in the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland and France.
The operating companies of the group are disclosed within note 31.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 26 November 2012.
Statement of compliance The financial information has been prepared on the basis of applicable International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS, as they apply to the financial statements of the group.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
For further detail, please refer to note 32.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except where measurement of balances at fair value is required as explained below.
The consolidated financial statements of the group are presented in pounds sterling, which is also the functional currency of the company, and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements of the group incorporate the financial information of the company and the entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries in accordance with IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the date the group gains control or up to the date control ceases respectively.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
Revenue recognition Revenue is the value of sales, excluding transactions with or between subsidiaries, and after deduction of sales related discounts and rebates, value added tax and other sales related taxes.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount can be measured reliably.
Sales related discounts are calculated based on the expected amounts necessary to meet claims by the groups customers in respect of these discounts and rebates.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of an asset, less its estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis, over the useful economic life of that asset as follows: Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years Vehicles included in plant and machinery 5 to 7 years Equipment in retail outlets included in xtures, ttings, tools and equipment 5 to 10 years Other xtures and ttings included in xtures, ttings, tools and equipment 3 to 10 years Land is not depreciated.
Freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years.
Leasehold properties are depreciated over 50 years, or over the unexpired lease term when this is less than 50 years.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benets are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount, and are included in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period of fide-recognition.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount.
Useful lives and residual amounts are reviewed annually and where adjustments are required these are made prospectively.
