overview business review gove governance rnance financial statements shareholder information Board performance evaluation The formal annual evaluation of the performance of the board, its committees and individual directors was undertaken during the year.
This consisted of an internally run exercise led by the chairman with the assistance of the company secretary.
The appraisal questionnaire used in connection with the process was wide-ranging and based on questions outlined in the Code, covering both board and committee performance.
The board considered that an internally run exercise was most appropriate in the current year but agreed annually to give consideration as to whether an externally facilitated evaluation may be appropriate.
The appraisal output is used to identify strengths and development areas and confirmed that the board and its committees were operating effectively.
Individual performance was also appraised following consultation with each of the other directors.
Independent professional advice The board has approved a procedure for directors to take independent professional advice at the companys expense if necessary.
No such advice was sought by any director during the year.
In addition, the directors have direct access to the advice and services of the company secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that board procedures are followed.
Training and development The company secretary is responsible for preparing and co-ordinating an induction programme for newly appointed directors, including presentations from senior management on different aspects of the business, as well as guidance on their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a listed company.
Business familiarisation involves directors visiting sites in the UK, Ireland and France.
The non-executive directors are encouraged to visit group manufacturing sites to enable them to gain a greater understanding of the groups activities and to meet senior managers throughout the business.
Every director has access to appropriate training as required subsequent to his appointment and is encouraged to develop his understanding of the company.
Conicts of interest The companys articles of association were amended at the 2008 AGM, in line with the Companies Act 2006, to allow the board to authorise potential conicts of interest that may arise and to impose limits or conditions, as appropriate.
Any decision of the board to authorise a conict of interest is only effective if it is agreed without the participation of the conicted directors, and in making such a decision, as always, the directors must act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the success of the company.
The company has established a procedure whereby actual or potential conicts of interest are regularly reviewed and for the appropriate authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of any new director or if a new conict arises.
During the year under review this procedure was adhered to and operated effectively.
Board committees There are a number of standing committees of the board to which various matters are delegated.
Each has formal terms of reference that have been approved by the board which are available on the groups website www.
Details are set out below: The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Ben Gordon, Bob Ivell, Michael Shallow and Gerald Corbett, who acts as its chairman.
The committee meets as necessary and is responsible for considering and recommending to the board persons who are appropriate for appointment as executive and non-executive directors.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board under which the Nomination Committee interviews suitable candidates who are proposed either by existing board members or by an external search rm.
Careful consideration is given to ensure proposed appointees have enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board is maintained.
When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the chairman, the senior independent non-executive director will chair the committee instead of the chairman.
When the committee has found a suitable candidate, the chairman of the committee will make a proposal to the whole board, which has retained responsibility for all such appointments.
During the year, the Nomination Committee met to consider matters relating to succession planning and to consider the continued independence of the non-executive directors.
The chairman reports the outcome of its meetings to the board.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Gerald Corbett, Ben Gordon, Michael Shallow and Bob Ivell, who acts as its chairman.
It is responsible for: i making recommendations to the board on the groups policy on the remuneration of the companys chief executive, chairman, the executive directors, the company secretary and other members of the executive committee: ii the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of the remuneration of the chairman and of specic remuneration packages for each of the executive directors and other members of the executive committee, including pension rights, any compensation payments and benets: and iii the determination of awards under the companys employee share plans to the executive directors, the company secretary and other members of the executive committee.
It meets at least three times a year and during the year met five times.
Full details of its activities and of directors remuneration are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 43.
Those pages detail compliance with the legal requirements with regard to remuneration matters.
The chairman of the committee reports the outcome of its meetings to the board.
