overview business review governance financial stat financial statements ements shareholder information 3.
Accounting policies continued Segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identied as the board of directors of the company.
Issued share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Nature and purpose of other reserves Share premium account The share premium account is used to record the excess of proceeds over the nominal value on the issue of shares.
Own shares reserve The own shares reserve is used to record purchases by the group of its own shares, which will be distributed to employees as and when share awards made under the Britvic employee share plans vest.
Share scheme reserve The share scheme reserve is used to record the movements in equity corresponding to the cost recognised in respect of equity-settled share based payment transactions.
Amounts recognised in the share scheme reserve are transferred to retained losses upon subsequent settlement of any awards that vest either by issue or purchase of the groups shares, or when awards lapse.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve records the effective portion of movements in the fair value of forward exchange contracts, interest rate and cross currency swaps that have been designated as hedging instruments in cash ow hedges.
Translation reserve The translation reserve includes cumulative net exchange differences on translation into the presentational currency sterling of items recorded in group entities with a non-sterling functional currency net of amounts recognised in respect of net investment hedges.
Merger reserve The merger reserve arose as a result of the non pre-emptive share placement which took place on 21 May 2010.
It was executed using a structure which created a merger reserve under Section 612-3 of the Companies Act 2006.
Own shares The cost of own shares held in employee share trusts and in treasury is deducted from shareholders equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, the fair value of any consideration received is also included in shareholders equity.
Exceptional and other items The group presents items as exceptional and other items on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess trends in financial performance more readily.
s @%XCEPTIONAL ITEMS INCLUDE THOSE SIGNIlCANT ITEMS OF INCOME AND EXPENSE WHICH BECAUSE OF THE NATURE AND INFREQUENCY OF THE EVENTS giving rise to them, merit separate presentation.
s @ THER ITEMS INCLUDE FAIR VALUE MOVEMENTS ON lNANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WHERE HEDGE ACCOUNTING CANNOT BE APPLIED 4HESE ITEMS HAVE BEEN included within exceptional and other items because they are non-cash and do not form part of how management assesses performance.
Key judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
However, the nature of estimation means that the actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, management has made the following judgements which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Post-retirement benets The determination of the pension and other post retirement benets cost and obligation is based on assumptions determined with independent actuarial advice.
The assumptions include discount rate, ination, pension and salary increases, expected return on scheme assets, mortality and other demographic assumptions.
These key assumptions are disclosed in note 23.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the goodwill intangible asset has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash ows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Further details are given in note 15.
