overview business review gove governance rnance financial statements shareholder information Other share plans Executive directors participate in the Britvic Share Incentive Plan, which is an all-employee tax approved share scheme open to employees based in Great Britain.
The Plan has three parts, all of which the Directors participate in: s &REE SHARE AWARDS ARE MADE ANNUALLY AT THE DISCRETION OF THE COMMITTEE 4HE VALUE OF THE AWARD IS DISCRETIONARY AND THE MAXIMUM IS 3% of reckonable earnings, capped at 3,000.
In light of our 2011 12 performance against internal targets, the committee has determined that no award of free shares will be made in April 2013. s 0ARTNERSHIP SHARES ARE PURCHASED BY EMPLOYEES THROUGH PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS BETWEEN a AND a PER PAY PERIOD sATCHING SHARES ARE PROVIDED BY THE EMPLOYER TO INDIVIDUALS PURCHASING PARTNERSHIP SHARES ON A ONE FOR ONE BASIS UP TO A MAXIMUM OF 50 per pay period.
Share ownership guidelines To align the interests of executive directors and shareholders, share ownership guidelines are in place that require executive directors to acquire a shareholding equal to their annual salary within five years from IPO calculated at the IPO share price or from the point of joining Britvic calculated at the share price on the date of joining.
Until this holding is acquired, the executive directors may not sell any shares other than to finance the cost of exercising options and any tax liabilities arising from the vesting of long-term incentive plans, unless approved by the committee, for example, in cases of financial hardship.
Retirement benets The executive directors ceased participation in the dened benefit section of the Britvic Pension Plan the Plan on 10 April 2011 following the closure of the Plan to future accrual.
Both executive directors now receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension.
"The cash allowance payable: s 2EmECTS CONTRIBUTIONS ""RITVIC WOULD HAVE MADE TO THE DElNED CONTRIBUTION SECTION OF THE THE 0LAN HAD THESE INDIVIDUALS ELECTED TO JOIN less a deduction to ensure the cash allowance is cost neutral to the company from a National Insurance perspective."
s S PAID AT A RATE OF OF PENSIONABLE PAY BASE SALARY ONLY TO THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND OF PENSIONABLE PAY TO THE GROUP lNANCE DIRECTOR Both executive directors continue to have a deferred pension in the dened benefit section of the DB Plan and also the Britvic Executive Top Up Scheme BETUS, the companys unfunded retirement benets scheme which also closed to future accrual on 10 April 2011.
The normal retirement age for executive directors is 60.
In line with all members of the dened benets section Plan the executive directors may benefit from the Enhanced Early Retirement Facility EERF which allows the Plan members to retire within five years of reaching normal pension age without a reduction in their pension.
The EERF includes benets payable from BETUS and is non-contractual.
Continuation on the EERF formed part of the agreement with the DB Plan trustees on the closure of the dened benefit section of the Plan, and the rules of EERF state that it cannot be reasonably refused to any retiring member.
The company has given notice to all of DB Plan members that the EERF will be withdrawn by 5 April 2016.
Where a BETUS member is retiring, the committee may consider offering a discounted one-off cash settlement to the member at the point of retirement to reduce the companys balance sheet exposure to the BETUS liability.
Further details of Paul Moodys retirement arrangements under the proposed merger are set out below.
Other benets Executive directors receive an annual car benefit or allowance and membership of the companys private medical healthcare plan.
Service contracts The current policy is for the notice period in the executive directors service contracts to be normally no longer than 12 months.
The service contracts of the current executive directors include the following terms: Effective date Unexpired term Notice period from director Notice period from of contract approx.
months months company months 1 Paul Moody 14 December 2005 12 612 1 John Gibney 14 December 2005 12 6 12 1 Executive directors are appointed on 12-month rolling contracts.
There are no special provisions for executive or non-executive directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of ofce.
In the event of the employment of an executive director being terminated, the committee would pay due regard to best practice and take account of the individuals duty to mitigate their loss.
In the event of the recommended merger with A. G. Barr p. l. c. it has been agreed that Paul Moody would retire early.
Consequently, he would not be entitled to any severance arrangements under the terms of his contract or bonus payments in respect of FY2012 13.
As an early retiree the basis of his retirement benets will follow the same provisions as apply to all Britvic employees in such situations.
Paul Moody would qualify for EERF which means that his pension would not be actuarially reduced as it would be within five years of his normal pension age.
Similarly, with respect to long-term incentive awards, Paul Moody would be subject to the same change in control provisions as all other participants in receipt of such awards and described in the policy table above.
In order to provide expert integration and synergy support as well as handover of the current Pepsi relationship following completion of the proposed merger, Paul Moody would be provided with a consulting services agreement with the combined Group for a xed period of six months following completion to ensure his expertise is available for as long as the new Board requires it during that period.
The agreed fee for these services, to be paid monthly, is 350,000 in total.
