financial statements notes to the company financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Company uses cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate uctuations classied as cash ow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash ows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
All derivative financial instruments are initially recognised and subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception.
This documentation identies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the profit and loss account.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing interest rate swaps designated as hedging instruments is as follows: For cash ow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the profit and loss account when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the profit and loss account.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the profit and loss account.
If the related transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken to the profit and loss account.
For fair value hedges, the gain or loss on the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in the profit and loss account.
The gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk shall adjust the carrying amount of the hedged item and be recognised in the profit and loss account.
If the hedge relationship was ineffective the hedged item would no longer be adjusted and the fair value gain or loss on the hedging instrument would continue to be recorded in the profit and loss account.
Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration has been borne by another Group undertaking.
For further details, refer to note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
4. profit loss of the company The Company made a loss of 25.3m in the period 2011: loss 9.6m.
Directors remuneration The remuneration of the directors of the Company is borne by another Group company.
Directors emoluments are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 43 of the consolidated financial statements.
Investments in group undertakings 2012 2011 m m Cost and net book value at the beginning of the period 739.5 734.8 Capital contribution 3.0 4.7 Cost and net book value at the end of the period 742.5 739.5 96 Britvic plc Annual Report 2012
