financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Pensions and post retirement benets continued Changes to benets under a dened benefit plan are accounted for as follows: s 0AST SERVICE COST IS THE INCREASE IN THE PRESENT VALUE OF THE DElNED BENElT OBLIGATION FOR EMPLOYEE SERVICE IN PRIOR PERIODS resulting from changes to post-employment benets.
Past service costs are recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the vesting period or immediately if the benets have vested.
s 7HEN A SETTLEMENT ELIMINATING ALL OBLIGATIONS FOR PART OR ALL OF THE BENElTS ALREADY ACCRUED OR A CURTAILMENT REDUCING FUTURE OBLIGATIONS as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs the obligation and related plan assets are re-measured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
Any net pension assets arising are assessed for restrictions.
Dened contribution plans Under dened contribution plans, contributions payable for the period are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement as an operating expense.
Employee benets Wages, salaries, bonuses and paid annual leave are accrued in the period in which the associated services are rendered by the employees of the group.
Leases Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are retained by the lessor are classied as operating leases by the group.
Leases in which the group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as finance leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Any lease incentives received are credited to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases to which they relate.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and subject to insignicant risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the statement of cash ows, bank overdrafts repayable on demand are a component of cash and cash equivalents.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 30-90 day terms, are recognised at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when collection of the full amount is no longer considered probable.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance income and finance cost.
Foreign currencies Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements of the group are presented in pounds sterling.
The presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements is the same as the functional currency of the company.
Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the Consolidated Income Statement, except when hedge accounting is applied and for differences in monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken in other comprehensive income until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit and loss.
Foreign operations The Consolidated Income Statement and statement of cash ows of foreign operations are translated at the average rate of exchange during the period.
The balance sheet is translated at the rate ruling at the reporting date.
Exchange differences arising on opening net assets and arising on the translation of results at an average rate compared to a closing rate are both recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the accumulated exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the Consolidated Income Statement.
