overview business review governance financial stat financial statements ements shareholder information 15.
Impairment testing of intangible assets continued Results and conclusions continued The intangibles for which the excess of the recoverable amount over the carrying value are susceptible to impairment from a reasonably possible change in the assumptions are shown below.
Britvic Ireland goodwill The key assumption to which the calculation of value in use for Britvic Ireland is most sensitive is the discount rate.
Sensitivity analysis 2012 Change in discount rate required to reduce recoverable amount to carrying amount 0.1% Britvic France goodwill The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for Britvic France is most sensitive are the discount rate and volume growth rate.
Sensitivity analysis 2012 Change in discount rate required to reduce recoverable amount to carrying amount 0.2% Adverse change in sales volume to reduce recoverable amount to carrying amount 0.4% Britvic France Pressade trademark The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for the Pressade Trademark is most sensitive are the discount rate and the volume growth rate.
Sensitivity analysis 2012 Discount rate to reduce recoverable amount to carrying amount 0.4% Adverse change in sales volume to reduce recoverable amount to carrying amount 0.5% There have been no impairments of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives during the period.
In both Britvic Ireland and Britvic France, management have taken a prudent view on growth rates which are less than forecast by the International Monetary Fund.
In addition, potential future cash-ow benets have been identied and then could signicantly reduce these sensitivities.
Intangible assets with nite lives Franchise rights Franchise rights represent the franchise agreements acquired, as a result of the acquisition of Britvic Ireland, which provide the long term right to distribute certain soft drinks.
Management have reviewed the performance of those products since acquisition and no indicators of impairment have been identied 2011: nil.
Customer lists As part of the fair value exercise regarding the acquisitions of Britvic Ireland in 2007 and Britvic France in 2010, customer list assets with nite lives were recognised.
Management have reviewed trading levels with those customers since acquisition.
No indicators of impairment have been identied in the current year and accordingly no impairments have been recognised in respect of customer lists 2011: nil.
Software costs During 2012, there has been an impairment of SAP implementation costs in Ireland.
The original benets have reduced against a backdrop of market decline in Ireland and the economic value is no longer consistent with the future value to be generated.
Other receivables non-current 2012 2011 m m Operating lease premiums 2.3 2.3 Prepayments 1.3 3.1 Other - 0.2 Total other receivables non-current 3.6 5.6 Operating lease premiums relates to the un-amortised element of lease premiums paid on inception of operating leases.
