financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Inventories and work in progress Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial assets The group determines the classication of its financial assets at initial recognition.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, which is normally the transaction price, plus directly attributable transaction costs for those financial assets not subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Loans and receivables The group has financial assets that are classied as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit or loss or available for sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement when loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate uctuations.
All derivative financial instruments are initially recognised and subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity proles.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is appropriate, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception.
This documentation identies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the Consolidated Income Statement.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows: Cash ow hedges Hedges are classied as cash ow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash ows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
For cash ow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement in the period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale occurs.
However, when the forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial carrying amount of the asset or liability.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are then transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement or included in the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above.
Net investment hedges Financial instruments are classied as net investment hedges when they hedge the groups net investment in foreign operations.
Some of the groups foreign currency borrowings qualify as hedging instruments that hedge foreign currency net investment balances.
The effective portion of gains or losses on translation of borrowings designated as net investment hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Upon disposal of the associated investment in foreign operations any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recycled through the Consolidated Income Statement.
Fair value hedges Hedges of the change in fair value of recognised assets or liabilities are classied as fair value hedges.
For fair value hedges, the gain or loss on the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk adjusts the carrying amount of the hedged item and is also recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If the hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the hedged item would no longer be adjusted and the cumulative adjustment to its carrying amount would be amortised to the Consolidated Income Statement based on a recalculated effective interest rate.
The fair value gain or loss on the hedging instrument would continue to be recorded in the Consolidated Income Statement.
