financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Key judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty continued Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities require managements judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, significant judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised which is dependent on the generation of sufficient future taxable profits.
The group recognises deferred tax assets to the extent it is probable that the benefit will be realised.
Further details are given in note 10.
Cross currency interest rate swaps The group measures cross currency interest rate swaps at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value represents the net present value of the difference between the projected cash ows at the swap contract rate and the relevant exchange interest rate for the period from the balance sheet date to the contracted expiry date.
The calculation therefore uses estimates of present value, future foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Information regarding cross currency interest rate swaps is provided in notes 22 and 26.
Other The group also makes estimations and judgements in the valuation of share-based payments.
However, the value of this item is such that any variation in the estimates used is unlikely to have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Further details are given in note 28.
New standards adopted in the current period During the period, the group adopted a number of interpretations and amendments to standards which had an immaterial impact on the consolidated financial statements of the group.
New standards and interpretations not applied The group has not applied the following IFRSs, which may be applicable to the group, that have been issued but are not yet effective: Effective date periods commencing on or after International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IFRS 7 Amendment to IFRS 7 Offsetting of assets and liabilities 1 January 2013 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classication and measurement 1 January 2015 IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements 1 January 2013 IFRS 11 Joint arrangements 1 January 2013 IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair value measurement 1 January 2013 International Accounting Standards IAS IAS 1 Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements 1 July 2012 IAS 12 Amendment to IAS 12 Income taxes 1 January 2012 IAS 19 IAS 19 revised 2011 Employee benets 1 January 2013 IAS 27 IAS 27 revised 2011 Separate financial statements 1 January 2013 IAS 32 Amendment to IAS 32 Offsetting of assets and liabilities 1 January 2014 Other Annual improvements Annual improvements 2011 1 January 2013 The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards, which will be adopted in line with the effective date will have a material impact on the groups reported income or net assets in the period, with the exception of IAS 19 revised which is not anticipated to have a material impact on net assets, but the impact on the reported income of the group is not possible to determine as it will depend on conditions at the time of adoption.
The most significant change for Britvic under IAS 19 revised is the replacement of interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a finance cost component which is determined by applying the same discount rate used to measure the dened benefit obligation to the net dened benefit liability or asset.
The difference between the actual return on plan assets and the discount rate will be presented in other comprehensive income.
The effect at the date of adoption will depend on market interest rates, rates of return and the actual mix of scheme assets at that time.
The directors consider that this change will not have a material impact on the Group consolidated results.
Following consultation with GB employees, the group principal pension scheme, the Britvic Pension Plan BPP, was closed to future accrual for active members with effect from 10 April 2011 and the intention of the Trustees is to change the asset allocation over time to reduce the risk of volatility within the asset portfolio.
Changes to the mix of scheme assets to reduce risk may also reduce the impact of IAS 19 Revised.
