Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies Basis of presentation The group financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union EU which comply with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
At 31 March 2012, IFRS as endorsed by the EU are identical to current IFRS applicable to the group.
The group financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for investment properties, available-for-sale investments, derivative financial instruments, financial assets and financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss or subject to hedge accounting, liabilities for cash-settled share-based payments and pension fund surpluses and deficits that have been measured at fair value.
Accounting policies applied are consistent with those of the prior year, except for the adoption of the following amendments: The group retrospectively adopted the amendments to IAS 24 Related Parties which related to the clarification of a definition of a related party noting that an investor, its subsidiaries and interests in associated undertakings are related parties to each other.
These amendments have had no material impact on the financial statements of the group.
The following amendments and improvements to IFRS have been adopted retrospectively, with no impact to the financial statements of the group: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes.
Presentation of information Disclosure under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures relating to the nature and extent of risks have been included in sections marked as audited in the risk management report on pages 170 to 182.
Certain disclosures required under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures have been included in the section marked as audited in the remuneration report on pages 235 to 262.
Restatements and presentation of information The group has revised its disclosure of business segments into three core previously six business lines, namely, Asset Management, Wealth & Investment and Specialist Banking.
To align with information provided to the chief operating decision maker, the previously reported Private Banking, Capital Markets, Investment Banking, Property Activities and Group Services and Other divisions have been grouped under one core business division referred to as Specialist Banking.
Associated with these changes, the group has refined the disclosures relating to the income statement and balance sheet as detailed in note 56 on pages 369 to 371.
The group believes that these refinements provide greater clarity on the key income and balance sheet drivers of its business.
Basis of consolidation Investec consists of two separate legal entities, being Investec plc and Investec Limited, that operate under a dual listed company DLC structure.
The effect of the DLC structure is that Investec plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries operate together as a single economic entity, with neither assuming a dominant role and accordingly are reported as a single reporting entity under IFRS.
All subsidiaries and special purpose entities SPEs in which the group holds more than one half of the voting rights or which it has the ability to control either directly or in substance are consolidated from the effective dates of acquisition that is from when control exists up to the effective dates of loss of control, except entities which are classified as non-current assets held-for-sale.
Subsidiaries classified as non-current assets held-for-sale are consolidated in one income statement line item as discontinued operations.
Investec sponsors the formation of SPEs for a variety of reasons.
SPEs are consolidated when the substance of the relationship between the group and the SPE indicates that the SPE is controlled by the group.
Investec performs a re-assessment of consolidation whenever there is a change in the substance of the relationship between Investec and an SPE.
Investec also holds investments, for example private equity investments, which give rise to significant, but not majority, voting rights.
Assessing these voting rights and whether Investec controls these entities requires judgement that affects the date at which subsidiaries are consolidated or deconsolidated.
Entities, other than subsidiary undertakings, in which the group exercises significant influence over operating and financial policies, are treated as interests in associated undertakings.
In the group accounts, interests in associated undertakings are accounted for using the equity method from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
284 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Annual financial statements In circumstances where interests in associated undertakings or joint venture holdings arise in which the group has no strategic intention, these investments are classified as venture capital holdings and are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss.
For equity accounted associates, the combined consolidated financial statements include the attributable share of the results and reserves of associated undertakings.
The groups interests in associated undertakings are included in the consolidated balance sheet at cost plus the post-acquisition changes in the groups share of the net assets of the associate.
The consolidated balance sheet reflects the associated undertakings net of accumulated impairment losses.
All intergroup balances, transactions and unrealised gains and losses within the group that do not reflect an impairment to the asset, are eliminated in full regarding subsidiaries and to the extent of the interest in an associate.
Segmental reporting An operating segment is a component of the group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the groups other components, whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the board and for which discrete financial information is available.
The groups segmental reporting is presented in the form of a business analysis.
The business analysis is presented in terms of the groups three principal business divisions, namely, Asset Management, Wealth & Investment and Specialist Banking.
A geographical analysis is also presented in terms of the main geographies in which the group operates representing the groups exposure to various economic environments.
For further detail on the groups segmental reporting basis refer to pages 57 to 88 of the divisional review section of the annual report.
Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any prior non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the group measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed immediately in the income statement.
When the group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and the designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through the income statement.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the group will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in the income statement or as a change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it will not be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this consideration and amount recognised for noncontrolling interest is less than the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired, the discount on acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement as a gain in the year of acquisition.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash generating units retained.
Share-based payments to employees The group engages in equity-settled share-based payments and in certain limited circumstances cash-settled share-based payments in respect of services received from employees.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Annual financial statements 285 Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued The fair value of the services received in respect of equity-settled share-based payments is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares or share options on the date of grant to the employee.
The cost of the share-based payment, together with a corresponding increase in equity, is recognised in the income statement over the period the service conditions of the grant are met with the amount changing according to the number of awards expected to vest.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The liability, in respect of cash-settled share-based payments, is recognised at the current fair value at each balance sheet date based on an estimate of the number of instruments that will eventually vest, with the change in fair value being recognised in the income statement.
Subsequent to vesting the liability is measured at fair value, with gains and losses recognised in the income statement until such time as the liability is settled.
Fair value measurements are based on option pricing models, taking into account the risk-free interest rate, volatility of the underlying equity instrument, expected dividends and current share prices.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, the minimum expense recognised in staff costs is the expense as if the terms had not been modified.
An additional expense is recognised for any modification which increases the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
Foreign currency transactions and foreign operations The presentation currency of the group is Pounds Sterling, being the functional currency of Investec plc.
The functional currency of Investec Limited is South African Rand.
Foreign operations are subsidiaries, interests in associated undertakings or branches of the group, the activities of which are based in a functional currency other than that of the reporting entity.
The functional currency of group entities is determined based on the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency of the entity in which the transaction arises based on rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date foreign currency items are translated as follows: Foreign currency monetary items other than monetary items that form part of the net investment in a foreign operation are translated using closing rates, with gains and losses recognised in the income statement Exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the net investment in a foreign operation are determined using closing rates and recognised as a separate component of equity foreign currency translation reserve upon consolidation and is recognised in the income statement upon disposal of the net investment Non-monetary items that are measured at historical costs are translated using the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
On consolidation, the results and financial position of foreign operations are translated into the presentation currency of the group as follows: Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet Income and expense items are translated at exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income foreign currency translation reserve, which is recognised in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation Cash flow items are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction Revenue r ecognition Revenue consists of interest income, fee and commission income, investment income, trading income arising from customer flow, trading income arising from balance sheet management and other trading activities and other operating income.
Revenue is recognised when it can be reliably measured and it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the entity.
Revenue related to provision of services is recognised when the related services are performed.
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Fees charged on lending transactions are included in the effective yield calculation to the extent that they form an integral part of the effective interest rate yield, but excludes those fees earned for a separately identifiable significant act, which are recognised upon completion of the act.
Fees and commissions charged in lieu of interest are recognised as income as part of the effective interest rate on the underlying loan.
The effective interest method is based on the estimated life of the underlying instrument, and, where this estimate is not readily available, the contractual life.
286 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Annual financial statements Fee and commission income includes fees earned from providing advisory services as well as portfolio management and includes rental income from investment properties.
Investment income includes income, other than margin, from securities held for the purpose of generating interest yield, dividends and capital appreciation.
Customer flow trading income includes income from trading activities arising from making and facilitating client activities.
Trading income arising from balance sheet management and other trading activities consists of proprietary trading income and other gains and losses arising from the balance sheet management.
Trading profits includes the unrealised profits on trading portfolios, which are marked to market daily.
Equity investments received in lieu of corporate finance fees are included in investment portfolio and valued accordingly.
Dividend income is recognised when the groups right to receive payment is established.
Funding costs allocated against revenue are disclosed in note 3.
Included in other operating income is incidental rental income, gains on realisation of properties other than investment properties which is included in investment income, operating lease income, income from interests in associated undertakings, income from assurance activities and revenue from consolidated private equity investments.
Operating costs associated with these investments are included in operating costs in the income statement.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are initially recognised at their fair value.
For financial assets or financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial assets or financial liabilities are included in fair value.
All other transaction costs are recorded in the income statement immediately.
Regular way purchase and sales transactions in respect of financial assets that require delivery of a financial instrument within the time frame established by market convention are recorded at trade date.
Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss include all instruments classified as held for trading and those instruments designated as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or designated as held at fair value through profit or loss are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Financial instruments are classified as trading when they are held with the intention of short-term disposal, held with intention of generating short-term profits, or are derivatives which are not designated as part of effective hedges.
Financial instruments designated as held at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such on initial recognition of the instrument and remain in this classification until derecognition.
Financial assets and liabilities are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss only if: It eliminates or significantly reduces an inconsistent measurement or recognition that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or recognising the gains and losses on them on different bases: or A group of financial assets, financial liabilities or both is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy and information about the group is provided internally on that basis to the groups key management personnel: and If a contract contains one or more embedded derivatives which significantly modifies the cash flows that would be required by the contract and is not clearly prohibited from separation from the host contract and the group has designated the entire hybrid contract as a financial instrument at fair value through profit or loss.
Held-to-maturity financial assets Held-to-maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial instruments with fixed or determinable payments and maturity dates which the group has the intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Subsequent to initial recognition, held-to-maturity assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment losses.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate.
The amortisation is included in interest income in the income statement.
The losses arising from impairment of such investments are recognised in the income statement.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Annual financial statements 287 Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and exclude the following: Those that the group intends to trade in, which are classified as held-for-trading and those that the group designates as at fair value through profit or loss Those that the group designates as available-for-sale Those for which the holder may not recover substantially all of its initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, which is accounted for as available-for-sale instruments.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, less impairment losses.
The effective interest rate represents the rate that exactly discounts future projected cash flows through the expected life of the financial instrument, to the net carrying amount of the financial instrument.
Included in the calculation of the effective interest rate is any discount or premium on acquisition and fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate.
Losses arising from impairment of such investments are recognised in the income statement line impairment losses on loans and advances.
Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those which are designated as such or do not qualify to be classified as designated at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity, or loans and receivables.
They include strategically held equity instruments that are not interests in associated undertakings, joint ventures or subsidiaries of the group.
Further, certain loans and receivables that are held at fair value due to being quoted on an active market, which are neither actively traded nor held-to-maturity instruments, are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
Financial assets classified as available-for-sale are measured at fair value on the balance sheet, with unrealised gains and losses recognised directly in other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve.
When the asset is disposed of, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement.
Interest earned whilst holding available-for-sale financial assets is reported as interest income using the effective interest rate.
Dividends earned whilst holding available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in the income statement when the right of payment has been established.
If an available-for-sale instrument is determined to be impaired, the respective cumulative unrealised losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the income statement in the period in which the impairment is identified.
Impairments on available-for-sale equity instruments are not reversed once recognised in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed, limited to the impairment value previously recognised in the income statement.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as non-trading, held-for-trading or designated as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Non-trading liabilities are recorded at amortised cost applying the effective interest rate method.
Held-for-trading liabilities or liabilities designated as held at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value.
All changes in fair value of financial liabilities are recognised in the income statement.
Valuation of financial instruments All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value.
On initial recognition, the fair value of a financial instrument is the transaction price unless it is deemed appropriate that the fair value of a financial instrument is more accurately determined by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument i. e. without modification or repackaging or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets.
In circumstances where unobservable data has a significant impact on the valuation of a financial instrument, the entire difference between the model determined fair value and the transaction price is not recognised on initial recognition.
The difference arising is recognised in the income statement over the life of the transaction, or when inputs become observable, or when the transaction is effectively closed out.
288 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Annual financial statements Subsequent to initial recognition the following financial instruments are measured at fair value: Fixed maturity securities classified as trading, held at fair value through profit or loss and available-for-sale Equity securities Private equity investments Derivative positions Loans and advances designated as held at fair value through profit or loss Loans and advances designated as available-for-sale Financial liabilities classified as trading or designated as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair value of financial instruments quoted in an active market is based on published price quotations.
Where market prices are not available, fair value is determined by discounting the expected cash flows, using market interest rates taking into account the credit quality and duration of the investment.
In certain instances model pricing may be used to determine fair values.
For private equity investments that are not publicly traded, management uses comparisons to similar listed companies, relevant third party arms length transactions and other data specific to the investment.
Day 1 profit or loss When the transaction price differs from the fair value of other observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on the valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets, the difference between the transaction price and fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
In cases where fair value is determined using the data which is not observable, the difference between the transaction price and model value is only recognised in the income statement when the inputs become observable, or when the instrument is derecognised.
Impairments of financial assets held at amortised cost Financial assets carried at amortised cost are impaired if there is objective evidence that the group would not receive cash flows according to the original contractual terms.
Financial assets are assessed for objective evidence of impairment at least at each balance sheet reporting date.
The test for impairment is based either on specific financial assets or collectively on a portfolio of similar, homogeneous assets.
Over and above individual collective impairments raised at specific portfolio levels, the group recognises a collective impairment allowance at a central level within the group services and other business segment that takes into account macro-economic factors, mainly driven by data related to the prevailing credit markets and which indicate incurred but not specifically identified losses across the loan portfolios that is, exposures in all business segments.
Assets specifically identified as impaired are excluded from the collective assessment.
Impairments are credited to an allowance account which is carried against the carrying value of financial assets.
Interest continues to be accrued on the reduced carrying amount based on the original effective interest rate of the asset.
Loans together with the associated allowance are written off when there is no realistic prospect of future recovery and all collateral has been realised or transferred to the group.
An allowance for impairment is only reversed when there is objective evidence that the credit quality has improved to the extent that there is reasonable assurance of timely collection of principal and interest in terms of the original contractual agreement.
The impairment is calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the expected cash flows including net proceeds on realisation of collateral discounted at the original effective rate.
Impairments of financial assets held at amortised cost are recognised in the income statement.
To cater for any shortfall between regulatory provision requirements in the respective jurisdictions and impairments based on the principles above, a transfer is made from distributable to non-distributable reserves, being the regulatory general risk reserve.
The non-distributable regulatory risk reserve ensures that minimum regulatory provisioning requirements are maintained.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset, or a portion thereof, is derecognised when the groups rights to cash flows have expired or when the group has transferred its rights to cash flows relating to the financial assets and either a the group has transferred substantially all the risk and rewards associated with the financial assets or b the group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the financial assets but has transferred control of the asset.
A financial liability is derecognised when it is extinguished, that is when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Annual financial statements 289 Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued When an existing financial liability is replaced or modified with substantially different terms, such a replacement or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability.
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Reclassification of financial instruments The group may reclassify, in certain circumstances, non-derivative financial assets out of the held-for-trading category and into the availablefor-sale, loans and receivables, or held-to-maturity categories.
It may also reclassify, in certain circumstances, financial instruments out of the available-for-sale category and into the loans and receivables category.
Reclassifications are recorded at fair value at the date of reclassification, which becomes the new amortised cost.
Derivative instruments All derivative instruments of the group are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
Positive and negative fair values are reported as assets and liabilities respectively and are offset when there is both an intention to settle net and a currently enforceable legal right to offset exists.
Derivative positions are entered into either for trading purposes or as part of the groups asset and liability management activities to manage exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risks.
Both realised and unrealised profits and losses arising on derivatives are recognised in the income statement as part of trading income other than circumstances in which cash flow hedging is applied as detailed below.
Derivative instruments transacted as economic hedges which do not qualify for hedge accounting and derivatives that are entered into for trading purposes are treated in the same way as instruments that are held-for-trading.
Hedge accounting The group applies either fair value or cash flow hedge or hedge of net investments in foreign operations accounting when the transactions meet the specified hedge accounting criteria.
To qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the group ensures that all of the following conditions are met: At inception of the hedge the group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument s and hedged item s including the risk management objectives and the strategy in undertaking the hedge transaction.
Also at the inception of the hedge relationship, a formal assessment is undertaken to ensure the hedging instrument is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the designated risk in the hedged item.
A hedge is expected to be highly effective if the changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the period for which the hedge is designated are expected to offset in a range of 80% to 125% For cash flow hedges, a forecasted transaction that is the subject of the hedge must be highly probable and must present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect profit and loss The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured, i. e. the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk and the fair value of the hedging instrument can be reliably measured The hedge effectiveness is assessed on an ongoing basis and determined actually to have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which the hedge was designated.
For qualifying fair value hedges, the change in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
Changes in fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk are also recognised in the income statement.
For qualifying cash flow hedges in respect of non-financial assets and liabilities, the change in fair value of the hedging instrument, relating to the effective portion is initially recognised directly in other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve and is included in the initial cost of any asset liability recognised or in all other cases released to the income statement when the hedged firm commitment or forecasted transaction affects net profit.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, the balance included in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement immediately and recognised in trading income from balance sheet management and other trading activities.
For qualifying cash flow hedges in respect of financial assets and liabilities, the change in fair value of the hedging instrument, which represents an effective hedge is initially recognised in other comprehensive income and is released to the income statement in the same period during which the relevant financial asset or liability affects the income statement.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Qualifying hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation including a hedge of a monetary item that is accounted for as part of the net investment are accounted for in a way similar to cash flow hedges.
Changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in other comprehensive income while any gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in the income statement.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gain or loss recorded in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement.
290 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Annual financial statements Hedge accounting is discontinued when it is determined that the instrument ceases to be highly effective as a hedge: when the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised: when the hedge item matures or is sold or repaid: when a forecasted transaction is no longer deemed highly probable or when the designation as a hedge is revoked.
Embedded derivatives To the extent that a derivative may be embedded in a hybrid contract and the hybrid contract is not carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in the income statement, the embedded derivative is separated from the host contract and accounted for as a standalone derivative if and only if: The economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract: and A separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a derivative.
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset when there is both an intention to settle on a net basis or simultaneously and a legal right to offset exists.
Issued debt and equity financial instruments Financial instruments issued by the group are classified as liabilities if they contain a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset.
Financial instruments issued by the group are classified as equity where they confer on the holder a residual interest in the group, and the group has no obligation to deliver either cash or another financial asset to the holder.
The components of compound issued financial instruments are accounted for separately with the liability component separated first and any residual amount being allocated to the equity component.
Equity instruments issued by subsidiaries of Investec plc or Investec Limited are recorded as non-controlling interests on the balance sheet.
Equity instruments are initially measured net of directly attributable issue costs.
Treasury shares represent issued equity repurchased by the group which has not been cancelled.
Treasury shares are deducted from shareholders equity and represent the purchase consideration, including directly attributable costs.
Where treasury shares are subsequently sold or reissued, net proceeds received are included in shareholders equity.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction from equity at the earlier of payment date or the date that it is approved by Investec plc in relation to dividends declared by Investec plc and Investec Limited in relation to dividends declared by Investec Limited shareholders.
Sale and repurchase agreements including securities borrowing and lending Where securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them, at a fixed price or a selling price plus a lenders return, they remain on balance sheet.
Proceeds received are recorded as a liability on balance sheet under repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent.
Securities that are purchased under a commitment to resell the securities at a future date are not recognised on the balance sheet.
The consideration paid is recognised as an asset under reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed.
The difference between the sale and repurchase prices is treated as interest expense and is accrued over the life of the agreement using the effective interest rate method.
Securities borrowing transactions that are not cash collateralised are not included in the balance sheet.
Securities lending and borrowing transactions which are cash collateralised are accounted for in the same manner as securities sold or purchased subject to repurchase commitments.
Financial guarantees Financial guarantee contracts issued by the group are those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails to make a payment when due, in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees are initially recognised at fair value, adjusted for the transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee.
Subsequent to initial recognition the liability under each guarantee is measured at the higher of the amount recognised less cumulative amortisation and the best estimate of expenditure required to settle any financial obligation arising as a result of the guarantee.
Subsequent to initial measurement all changes in the balance sheet carrying value are recognised in the income statement.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Annual financial statements 291 Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued Instalment credit, leases and rental agreements A finance lease is a lease that transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset.
An operating lease is a lease other than a financial lease.
Where classified as a finance lease, amounts outstanding on these contracts, net of unearned finance charges, are included in loans and advances where Investec is the lessor and included in liabilities where Investec is the lessee.
Finance charges on finance leases and instalment credit transactions are credited or debited to income in proportion to the capital balances outstanding at the rate implicit in the agreement.
Where classified as operating leases, rentals payable receivable are charged credited in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals if any are accrued to the income statement when incurred.
Property and equipment Property and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments.
Cost is the cash equivalent paid, or the fair value of the consideration given to acquire an asset and includes other expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Depreciation is provided on the depreciable amount of each component on a straight-line basis over the anticipated useful life of the asset.
The depreciable amount related to each asset is determined as the difference between the cost and the residual value of the asset.
The residual value is the estimated amount, net of disposal costs, that the group would currently obtain from the disposal of an asset in similar age and condition as expected at the end of its useful life.
The current and comparative annual depreciation rates for each class of property and equipment is as follows: Computer and related equipment 20% 33% Motor vehicles 20% 25% Furniture and fittings 10% 20% Freehold buildings 2% Leasehold improvements Leasehold improvements depreciation rates are determined by reference to the appropriate useful life of its separate components, limited to the period of the lease.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land, however, similar to other property-related assets, it is subject to impairment testing when deemed necessary.
Routine servicing and maintenance of assets are expensed as incurred.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the group.
Investment property Properties held by the group which are held for capital appreciation or rental yield are classified as investment properties.
Investment properties are carried on balance sheet at fair value, with fair value gains and losses recognised in the income statement under investment income.
Fair value of investment property is calculated by taking into account the expected rental stream associated with the property, and is supported by market evidence.
Dealing properties Dealing properties are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairments.
For intangible assets with a finite life, amortisation is provided on the depreciable amount of each intangible asset on a straight-line basis over the anticipated useful life of the asset currently three to fifteen years.
The depreciable amount related to each intangible asset is determined 292 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Annual financial statements as the difference between the cost and the residual value of the asset.
The residual value is the estimated amount, net of disposal costs, which the group would currently obtain from the disposal of an intangible asset in similar age and condition as expected at the end of its useful life.
Impairment of non-financial assets At each balance sheet date the group reviews the carrying value of non-financial assets, other than investment property and deferred tax assets for indication of impairment.
The recoverable amount, being the higher of fair value less cost to sell and value in use, is determined for any assets for which an indication of impairment is identified.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is less than its carrying value, the carrying value of the asset is reduced to its recoverable value.
Impairment losses are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they are identified.
Reversal of impairment losses is recognised in income in the period in which the reversal is identified, to the extent that the asset is not revalued to a carrying value that would have been calculated without impairment.
Trust and fiduciary activities The group acts as a trustee or in other fiduciary capacities that result in the holding, placing or managing of assets for the account of and at the risk of clients.
As these are not assets of the group, they are not reflected on the balance sheet but are included at market value as part of assets under administration.
Taxation and deferred taxation Current tax payable is provided on the amount expected to be payable on taxable profits at rates that are enacted or substantively enacted and applicable to the relevant period.
Deferred taxation is provided using the balance sheet method on temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax base, except where such temporary differences arise from: The initial recognition of goodwill The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction has no effect on the income statement In respect of temporary differences associated with the investments in subsidiaries and interests in associated undertakings, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets or liabilities are measured using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilised.
Items recognised directly in other comprehensive income are net of related current and deferred taxation.
Insurance contracts Insurance contracts are those contracts in which the group assumes significant insurance risk.
The deposit components of insurance contracts are unbundled and accounted for separately.
Insurance premiums are recognised in income in the period in which the group is entitled to the premium.
Insurance claims are recognised in the income statement in the period in which a contractual obligation arises for the group to make payment under an insurance contract.
Reinsurance assets and liabilities and associated premiums claims are not offset in the income statement or balance sheet.
Insurance liabilities are measured at their actuarial values, and are tested for adequacy on an annual basis.
Any deficiency identified is recognised in the income statement.
Insurance income is included in other operating income.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Annual financial statements 293 Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued Employee benefits The group operates various defined contribution schemes and two closed defined benefit schemes.
In respect of the defined contribution scheme all employer contributions are charged to income as incurred, in accordance with the rules of the scheme, and included under staff costs.
The assets of the defined benefit schemes are measured at their market value at the balance sheet date and the liabilities of the schemes are measured using the projected unit credit method.
The discount rate used to measure the schemes liabilities is the current rate of return on an AA corporate bond at the balance sheet date of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities.
The extent to which the schemes assets exceed or fall short of the schemes liabilities is shown as a surplus to the extent that it is considered recoverable or deficit in the balance sheet.
Actuarial gains and losses related to the defined benefit asset or liability are recognised immediately directly in other comprehensive income.
The group has no liabilities for other post-retirement benefits.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs in respect of property developments that take a substantial period of time to develop for sale are capitalised.
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount and are recognised as soon as the group has created a legal or constructive obligation which will lead to an outflow of economic resources to settle the obligation as a result of a past event.
Expenses related to provisions are recognised in the income statement.
Contingent assets and contingent liabilities are not recognised on balance sheet.
Standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective The following standards and interpretations, which have been issued but are not yet effective, are applicable to the group.
These standards and interpretations have not been applied in these financial statements.
The group intends to comply with these standards from the effective dates.
New standards IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements The standard replaces consolidation principles contained in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and SIC-12 Special Purpose Entities.
The standard defines the principle of control and establishes control as the basis for determining which entities are consolidated in the consolidated financial statements.
An investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The standard is retrospectively effective for the group for the year commencing 1 April 2013, and EU endorsement is expected before the effective date.
The impact of this standard is currently under evaluation.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements The standard replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Jointly Controlled Entities Non-Monetary Contributions by Venturers.
The key change is to require all joint ventures to be equity-accounted, thus removing the option to proportionately consolidate.
The group does not expect any changes to the accounting policies of the group arising from this standard.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities The standard requires disclosure of the significant judgements and assumptions made in determining the nature of interests in subsidiaries, joint ventures and interest in associated undertakings and the interest that non-controlling interests have in the groups activities and cash flows.
The standard further provides disclosure requirements relating to consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities that the group is associated with.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement The standard defines fair value being a market-based measurement, sets out in a single IFRS a framework for measuring fair value and requires extensive disclosure about fair value measurements, inclusive of non-financial instruments that are subject to fair value measurement.
The standard is prospectively effective for the group for the year commencing 1 April 2013, and EU endorsement is expected before the effective date.
294 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Annual financial statements IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9: Financial Instruments will replace certain key elements of IAS 39 when finally issued.
The three key elements being drafted are: Classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities the standard requires that all financial assets be classified as either held at fair value or amortised cost.
The amortised cost classification is only permitted where it is held within a business model where the underlying cash flows are held in order to collect contractual cash flows and that the cash flows solely arise from payment of principal and interest.
The standard further provides that gains and losses on assets held at fair value are measured through the income statement unless the entity has elected to present gains and losses on non-trading equity investments individually elected directly through comprehensive income.
With reference to financial liabilities held at fair value, the standard proposes that changes to fair value attributable to credit risk is taken directly to other comprehensive income without recycling.
These are current deliberations which may result in limited modifications to IFRS 9 relating to classification and measurement Impairment methodology the key change is related to a shift from an incurred loss to an expected loss impairment methodology.
This element is subject to continued deliberation with expected amendments to IFRS 9 in 2012 Hedge accounting this is subject to deliberation and an exposure draft is expected in 2012.
The standard is effective for the group for the year commencing 1 April 2015, and does not require the restatement of comparative-period financial statements upon initial application.
The EU have highlighted that they will not endorse IFRS 9 until a complete standard is issued.
IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities amendments to IFRS 7 These amendments requires additional disclosures which the group will be in a position to provide.
The amendments are effective for the year commencing 1 April 2013.
There are other proposed amendments which do not have a material impact to the financial statements and thus have not been highlighted or discussed above.
Key management assumptions In preparation of the financial statements the group makes estimations and applies judgement that could affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Key areas in which judgement is applied include: Valuation of unlisted investments in the private equity and direct investments portfolios.
Key valuation inputs are based on the most relevant observable market inputs, adjusted where necessary for factors that specifically apply to the individual investments and recognising market volatility.
Details of unlisted investments can be found in note 25 with further analysis contained in the risk management section on pages 131 to 133 Valuation of investment properties is performed twice annually by directors that are qualified valuators.
The valuation is performed by capitalising the budgeted net income of a property at the market related yield applicable at the time.
Refer to note 32 for the carrying value of investment property with further analysis contained in the risk management section on pages 131 to 133 The determination of impairments against assets that are carried at amortised cost and impairments relating to available-for-sale financial assets involves the assessment of future cash flows which is judgemental in nature.
Refer to pages 115 to 130 in the risk management section for further analysis on impairments The groups income tax charge and balance sheet provision are judgemental in nature.
This arises from certain transactions for which the ultimate tax treatment can only be determined by final resolution with the relevant local tax authorities.
The group recognises liabilities for taxation based on estimates of levels of taxation expected to be payable, taking into consideration expert external advice where appropriate.
The final resolution may result in different amounts of cash flows to those initially provided and any necessary adjustments are taken into consideration in the period in which they are identified Determination of interest income and interest expense using the effective interest method involves judgement in determining the timing and extent of future cash flows.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Annual financial statements 295
