FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting policies values at the acquisition date.
On an The fair value is the initial carrying amount for Basis of Preparation  basis, the Group the purposes of subsequently accounting for The consolidated financial statements of the recognises any non-controlling interest in the the retained interest as an associate, joint Group have been prepared in accordance with acquiree either at fair value or at the nonventure or financial asset.
In addition, any International Financial Reporting Standards as amounts previously recognised in other controlling interests proportionate share of the adopted by the European Union IFRSs as comprehensive income in respect of that entity acquirees net assets.
adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and are accounted for as if the Group had directly the Companies Act 2006 applicable to Acquisition-related costs are expensed as disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
This may mean that amounts previously consolidated financial statements have been If a business combination is achieved in stages, recognised in other comprehensive income are prepared on a going concern basis, under the the fair value of the Groups previously held reclassified to profit or loss.
historical cost convention, as modified by the equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to revaluation of available-for-sale investments and Associates fair value at the acquisition date through profit or derivative financial instruments.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, Standards, amendments and Any contingent consideration to be transferred generally accompanying a shareholding of interpretations effective in 2012 by the Group is recognised at fair value at the between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair Investments in associates are accounted for were effective for the first time for the financial value of the contingent consideration that is using the equity method of accounting.
year beginning on or after 1st January 2012 that deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised Under the equity method, the investment is had a material impact on the Group.
in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss initially recognised at cost, and the carrying or as a change to other comprehensive income.
amount is increased or decreased to recognise Basis of consolidation Contingent consideration that is classified as the investors share of the profit or loss of the Subsidiaries equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent investee after the date of acquisition.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group settlement is accounted for within equity.
The Groups investment in associates includes has the power to govern the financial and goodwill identified on acquisition.
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of operating policies so as to obtain economic the aggregate of the consideration transferred If the ownership interest in an associate is benefits and generally accompany a and the fair value of non-controlling interests reduced but significant influence is retained, only shareholding of more than one half of the voting over the net identifiable assets acquired and a proportionate share of the amounts previously rights.
The existence and effect of potential liabilities assumed.
If this consideration is lower recognised in other comprehensive income is voting rights that are currently exercisable or than the fair value of the net assets of the reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
convertible are considered when assessing subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised whether the Group controls another entity.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or in profit or loss.
loss is recognised in the income statement, and The Group also recognises control where it Inter-company transactions, balances, income its share of post acquisition movements in other does not have more than 50% of the voting and expenses on transactions between Group comprehensive income is recognised in other power but is able to govern the financial and companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies comprehensive income with a corresponding operating policies by virtue of fide-facto control.
adjustment to the carrying amount of the of subsidiaries have been changed where fide-facto control may arise in circumstances investment.
When the Groups share of losses in necessary to ensure consistency with the where the size of the Groups voting rights an associate equals or exceeds its interest in policies adopted by the Group.
relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the associate, including any other unsecured other shareholders give the Group the power to Transactions with non-controlling interests receivables, the Group does not recognise govern the financial and operating policies.
further losses, unless it has incurred legal or Transactions with non-controlling interests that Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date constructive obligations or made payments on do not result in loss of control are accounted for on which control is transferred to the Group.
as equity transactions that is, as transactions They are fide-consolidated from the date that with the owners in their capacity as owners.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the control ceases.
The difference between fair value of any Group and its associates are eliminated to the consideration paid and the relevant share The Group uses the acquisition method of extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
acquired of the carrying value of net assets of accounting to account for business Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
The consideration transferred for transaction provides evidence of an impairment losses on disposals to non-controlling interests the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of are also recorded in equity.
of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred the associates have been modified where and the equity interests issued by the Group.
necessary to ensure consistency with the Disposal of subsidiaries The consideration transferred includes the fair policies adopted by the Group.
value of any asset or liability resulting from a When the Group ceases to have control any contingent consideration arrangement.
retained interest in the entity is re-measured to Segment reporting Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and its fair value at the date when control is lost, Operating segments are reported in a manner contingent liabilities assumed in a business with the change in carrying amount recognised consistent with the internal reporting provided to combination are measured initially at their fair in profit or loss.
The chief 62 Annual Report 2012 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME CONSOLIDATED GROUP BALANCE SHEET CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS ACCOUNTING POLICIES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS operating decision-maker, who is responsible On consolidation exchange differences arising Costs that are directly associated with the for allocating resources and assessing from the translation of net investment in foreign production of identifiable and unique software performance of the operating segments, has entities, and of borrowings and other currency products controlled by the Group, and that will been identified as the Chief Executive Officer.
instruments designated as hedges of such generate economic benefits exceeding costs investments, are taken to other comprehensive beyond one year, are recognised as intangible Foreign currencies income.
When a foreign operation is sold, such assets.
Direct costs include the software exchange differences are recognised in the development employee costs and an Functional and presentation currency income statement as part of the gain or loss on appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Items included in the financial statements of sale.
Computer software development costs each of the Groups entities are measured using recognised as assets are amortised over their Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the currency of the primary economic estimated useful lives.
the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as environment in which the entity operates the assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and The rates of amortisation are between 20% and functional currency.
translated at the closing rate.
The consolidated financial statements are differences arising are recognised in other presented in Sterling, which is the Groups Capitalised employment contract comprehensive income.
payments Goodwill arising on The Group makes payments to certain key Transactions and balances consolidation employees in recognition of them signing a Foreign currency transactions are translated into Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of long-term employment contact, usually three to the functional currency using the exchange an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups five years.
These payments are capitalised as rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
share of the net identifiable assets of the intangible assets since legal rights protect the Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting acquired subsidiary associate at the date of expected benefits that the Group will derive from the settlement of such transactions and acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of from the contracts.
from the translation at year-end exchange rates subsidiaries is shown separately on the Balance The asset recognised is then amortised over of monetary assets and liabilities denominated Sheet.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is the duration of the underlying contract within in foreign currencies are recognised in the included in investments in associates.
income statement, except when deferred in Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed prior equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and Other to 1st January 1998 was written off directly to qualifying net investment hedges.
Following the adoption of IFRS this For acquisitions completed after 1st January differences on non-monetary items, such as goodwill remains written off to reserves and no 2004 the business acquired is reviewed to equities held at fair value through profit or loss, adjustment would be made on subsequent identify assets that meet the definition of an are reported as part of the fair value gain or disposal.
For acquisitions completed on or after intangible asset per IAS 38.
Translation differences on non-monetary 1st January 1998 and before 1st January 2004, assets include customer contracts and items, such as equities classified as availablegoodwill is stated on the balance sheet at its expectations of business renewal.
These assets for-sale financial assets, are included in other previously amortised net book value.
are valued on the basis of the present value of comprehensive income.
future cash flows and are amortised to the For acquisitions completed on or after 1st income statement over the life of the contract Group companies January 2004, goodwill is tested annually for or their estimated economic life.
The current impairment and carried at cost less The results and financial position of all the maximum estimated economic life is ten years.
Gains and Group entities none of which has the currency losses on the disposal of an entity include the of a hyperinflationary economy that have a Impairment of assets carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity functional currency different from the Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating presentation currency are translated into the subject to amortisation and are tested annually units, or groups of cash generating units, for the presentation currency as follows: for impairment.
Assets that are subject to purpose of impairment testing.
Cash generating amortisation are reviewed for impairment i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet units represent the lowest level of geographical presented are translated at the closing rate whenever events or changes in circumstances and business segment combinations that the at the date of that balance sheet: indicate that the carrying amount may not be Group uses for internal reporting purposes.
An impairment loss is recognised ii income and expenses for each income for the amount by which the assets carrying Intangible assets statement are translated at average amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
exchange rates unless this average is not a Computer software The recoverable amount is the higher of an reasonable approximation of the cumulative Acquired computer software licenses are assets fair value less costs to sell and value-ineffect of the rates prevailing on the capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, transaction dates, in which case income acquire them and bring them to use.
These assets are grouped at the lowest levels for and expenses are translated at the rate on costs are amortised over their estimated useful which there are separately identifiable cash the dates of the transactions : and lives.
Costs associated with developing or flows cash-generating units.
iii all resulting exchange differences are maintaining computer software programmes are recognised in other comprehensive income.
recognised as an expense as incurred.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2012 63 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting policies 2 Other investments, which include securities the debtor, dispute, default or delinquency in Property, plant and equipment and other investments held for strategic payments are considered indicators that the Assets are stated at their net book value purposes - these investments are held at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
fair value unless a fair value cannot be Cost includes the original purchase price of the The carrying amount of the asset is reduced accurately determined in which case they asset and the costs attributable to bringing the through the use of an allowance account, and are held at cost less any provision for asset to its working condition for its intended the amount of the loss is recognised in the impairment.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the income statement.
cost of such assets over their estimated useful Interest on deposits and interest-bearing lives.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is investments is credited as it is earned.
written off against the allowance account for The principal rates of depreciation are as Regular purchases and sales of financial assets trade receivables.
follows: are recognised on the trade date - the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell Freehold land and buildings - between 0% Cash and cash equivalents and 2% per annum.
Investments are initially recognised at Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in fair value plus transaction costs.
Financial Leasehold improvements - between 10% hand, deposits held at call with banks, other assets are derecognised when the rights to and 20% per annum or over the life of the short-term highly liquid investments with original receive cash flows have expired or have been lease.
maturities of three months or less.
Bank transferred and the Group has transferred Furniture and office equipment - between overdrafts are shown within borrowings in substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Available-for-sale assets are subsequently carried at fair value.
Computer hardware - between 20% and Trade payables 100% per annum.
The fair values of quoted investments are Trade payables are initially recognised at fair determined based upon current bid price.
Motor vehicles - between 25% and 33 value and subsequently measured at amortised 1 3% per annum.
Changes in the value of securities classified as cost.
available-for-sale are recognised in other The depreciation rates are reviewed on an comprehensive income.
Borrowings Borrowings are classified as current liabilities Insurance broking debtors and Financial assets unless the Group has an unconditional right to payables The Group classifies its financial assets as loans defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 Insurance brokers act as agents in placing the and receivables and available-for-sale months after the balance sheet date.
The classification depends upon insurable risks of their clients with insurers and, Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, the purpose for which the financial assets were as such, are not liable as principals for amounts net of transaction costs incurred.
Management determines the arising from such transactions.
In recognition of subsequently stated at amortised cost using the classification of its financial assets at initial this relationship, debtors from insurance broking effective interest rate method.
transactions are not included as an asset of the Group.
Other than the receivable for fees and Deferred income tax Loans and receivables commissions earned on a transaction, no The charge for taxation is based on the result recognition of the insurance transaction occurs Loans and receivables are non-derivative for the year at current rates of tax and takes until the Group receives cash in respect of financial assets with fixed or determinable into account deferred tax.
payments that are not quoted in an active premiums or claims, at which time a market.
They are included in current assets, corresponding liability is established in favour of Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the except for maturities greater than 12 months the insurer or the client.
liability method, on temporary differences arising after the balance sheet date.
In certain circumstances, the Group advances between the tax bases of assets and liabilities The Group's loans and receivables comprise premiums, refunds or claims to insurance and their carrying amounts in the consolidated underwriters or clients prior to collection.
trade and other receivables and cash and cash financial statements.
However, if the deferred equivalents in the balance sheet.
Loans and These advances are reflected in the income tax arises from initial recognition of an receivables are carried at amortised cost.
consolidated balance sheet as part of trade asset or liability in a transaction other than a receivables.
business combination that at the time of the Available-for-sale financial assets transaction affects neither accounting nor Trade receivables Available-for-sale financial assets are taxable profit or loss, it is not recognised.
categorised according to their nature into one of Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair Deferred income tax is determined using tax two categories: value and subsequently at amortised cost, less rates and laws that have been enacted or provision for impairment.
1 Investments and deposits, which consist substantively enacted by the balance sheet date A provision for impairment of trade receivables mainly of fixed deposits, bonds and and are expected to apply when the related is established when there is objective evidence certificates of deposit - these investments deferred income tax asset is realised or the that the Group will not be able to collect all are held at fair value and are classified deferred income tax liability is settled.
between current and non-current assets amounts due according to the original terms of according to maturity date.
Significant financial difficulties of 64 Annual Report 2012 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME CONSOLIDATED GROUP BALANCE SHEET CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS ACCOUNTING POLICIES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred income tax is charged or credited to into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal date or when the policy placement has been equity in respect of any items, which is itself or constructive obligations to pay further completed and confirmed.
either charged or credited directly to equity.
contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient Where there is an expectation of future Any subsequent recognition of the deferred assets to pay all employees the benefits relating servicing requirements an element of income gain or loss in the consolidated income to employee service in the current and prior relating to the policy is deferred to cover the statement is accompanied by the periods.
The costs of the Groups defined contribution Employee benefits pension schemes are charged to the income Deferred income tax assets are recognised to Income relating to employee benefit services statement in the period in which they fall due.
the extent that it is probable that future taxable includes fees and commissions.
Fees are profit will be available against which the charged on a time-cost or fixed-fee basis and Share-based compensation temporary differences can be utilised.
are recognised in line with the performance of The Group operates a number of equity-settled, Deferred income tax is provided on temporary the underlying service.
Commission is share-based compensation plans.
The fair differences arising on investments in recognised upon confirmation of the underlying value of the employee services received in subsidiaries and associates, except where the policy or product.
exchange for the grant of the options is Group controls the timing of the reversal of the Other services recognised as an expense.
temporary difference and it is probable that the Fees and other income receivable are The total amount to be expensed over the temporary difference will not reverse in the recognised in the period to which they relate vesting period is determined by reference to the foreseeable future.
and when they can be measured with fair value of the options granted, excluding the reasonable certainty.
impact of any non-market vesting conditions Employee benefits for example, profitability and sales growth Investment Income Pension costs targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are The Group operates a number of defined Investment income arises from the holding of included in assumptions about the number of cash and investments relating to fiduciary funds benefit pension schemes, and a number of options that are expected to become and is recognised on an accruals basis.
employees are members of defined contribution exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the pension schemes.
entity revises its estimates of the number of Exceptional items options that are expected to become Full actuarial valuations of the Groups main Exceptional items are separately identified to exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the defined benefit schemes are carried out at least provide greater understanding of the Groups revision of original estimates, if any, in the every three years.
Items classified as income statement, and a corresponding A qualified actuary updates these valuations to exceptional items include: gains or losses adjustment to equity.
For the purposes of arising from the sale of businesses and The proceeds received net of any directly these annual updates, scheme assets are investments: closure costs for businesses: attributable transaction costs are credited to restructuring costs: professional fees in respect included at market value and scheme liabilities share capital at nominal value and share of acquisitions: post acquisition integration are measured on an actuarial basis using the premium excess over nominal value when the costs: and other credits and charges of nonprojected unit credit method: these liabilities are options are exercised.
recurring nature that require inclusion in order discounted at the current rate of return of an to provide additional insight into the underlying AA corporate bond of equivalent currency and Provisions for liabilities and business performance.
The defined benefit surplus or deficit is charges and material nature are charged or credited to calculated as the present value of defined A provision is recognised where there is a operating profit and are classified to the benefit obligations less the fair value of the plan present obligation, whether legal or appropriate income statement headings.
assets and is included on the Groups balance constructive, as a result of a past event for sheet.
Surpluses are included only to the extent To assist in the analysis and understanding of which it is probable that a transfer of economic that they are recoverable through reduced the underlying trading position of the Group benefits will be required to settle the obligation contributions in the future or through refunds these items are summarised within the and a reasonable estimate can be made of the from the schemes.
The current service cost operating profit, note 3 on page 72, under the amount of the obligation.
Where appropriate and any past service costs are included in the heading of Exceptional items.
the Group discounts provisions to their present income statement within salaries and value.
The unwinding of the provision associated expenses and the expected return Leases discounting is included as an interest charge on the schemes assets, net of the impact of Assets held under leasing agreements, which within finance costs in the income statement.
the unwinding of the discount on scheme transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of liabilities, is included within finance costs.
ownership to the Group are included in Revenue Actuarial gains and losses, including differences property, plant and equipment.
The capital Fees and commissions between the expected and actual return on elements of the related lease obligations are Fees and commissions are derived from three scheme assets, are recognised through the included in liabilities.
The interest elements of principal sources: consolidated statement of comprehensive the lease obligations are charged to the income income.
statement over the period of the lease term.
Insurance broking A defined contribution plan is a pension plan Income relating to insurance broking is The property, plant and equipment acquired under which the Group pays fixed contributions accounted for at the later of policy inception under finance leases is depreciated over the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2012 65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting policies shorter of the useful life of the asset and the hedging reserves and is recognised when the are reviewed for impairment whenever lease term.
committed or forecasted transaction ultimately events or changes in circumstances is recognised in the consolidated income indicate that the carrying amount of the Leases in which a significant portion of the risks statement.
When a committed or forecasted asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
and rewards of ownership are retained by the transaction is no longer expected to occur, the The recoverable amount of an asset or a lessor are classified as operating leases.
cumulative gain or loss that was reported in cash generating unit is determined based Payments made under operating leases net of equity is immediately recognised in the any incentives received from the lessor are on value-in-use calculations prepared on consolidated income statement.
charged to the income statement on a straightthe basis of managements assumptions line basis over the period of the lease.
This determination requires Dividend distribution significant judgment.
In making this Dividends proposed or declared after the Derivative financial instruments judgment, the Group evaluates, among balance sheet date are not recognised as a The Group only enters into derivative financial other factors, the duration and extent to liability at the balance sheet date.
Final instruments in order to hedge underlying which the fair value of an investment is less dividends are recognised as a charge to equity commercial exposures.
than its cost: and the financial health of and once approved and interim dividends are near-term business outlook for the Derivative financial instruments are initially charged once paid.
investment, including factors such as recognised at fair value on the date a derivative industry and sector performance, changes contract is entered into and are subsequently Financial and capital risk in regional economies and operational and re-measured at their fair value.
The method of management financing cash flow.
recognising the resulting gain or loss is The Groups exposure to financial risks and its dependent on the nature of the item being financial and capital management policies are c Income taxes hedged.
detailed in the Finance Directors Review and The Group is subject to income taxes in the Risk Management Report on pages 30 to The Group designates derivatives as either a numerous jurisdictions.
Significant 35. hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or judgement is required in determining the liability fair value hedge, or a hedge of a worldwide provision for income taxes.
There Critical accounting estimates forecasted transaction or of the foreign currency are many transactions and calculations for and judgments risk on a firm commitment cash flow hedge, or which the ultimate tax determination is Estimates and judgments used in preparing the a hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity uncertain during the ordinary course of financial statements are continually evaluated net investment hedges.
Where the final tax outcome of and are based on historical experience and these matters is different from the amounts Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are other factors, including expectations of future that were initially recorded, such differences designated and qualify as fair value hedges and events that are believed to be reasonable.
The will impact the income tax and deferred tax that are highly effective, are recorded in the resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, provisions in the period in which such consolidated income statement, along with any seldom equal the related actual results.
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or The estimates and assumptions that have a liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
d Pension obligations significant effect on the carrying amounts of Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are The present value of the pension obligations assets and liabilities are discussed below.
designated and qualify as cash flow hedges and depends on a number of factors that are that are highly effective, are recognised in equity.
a Fair value estimation determined on an actuarial basis using a Where the forecasted transaction or firm number of assumptions.
The fair value of financial instruments traded commitment results in the recognition of a nonin active markets such as available-for-sale The assumptions used in determining the financial asset or of a non-financial liability, the is based upon quoted market prices at the net cost or income for pensions include the gains and losses previously deferred in equity balance sheet date.
The quoted market expected long-term rate of return on the are transferred from equity and included in the price used for financial assets held by the relevant plans assets and the discount rate.
initial measurement of the cost of the asset or Group is the current bid price.
Otherwise, amounts deferred in equity Any changes in the assumptions may The carrying value less impairment provision are transferred to the consolidated income impact the carrying amount of pension of trade receivables and payables are statement and classified as income or expense obligations, the charge in the income assumed to approximate their fair values.
in the same periods during which the hedged statement, or statement of comprehensive The fair values of financial liabilities is firm commitment or forecasted transaction income.
estimated by discounting the future affects the consolidated income statement.
The expected return on plan assets contractual cash flows at the current market The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion assumption is determined on a uniform interest rate that is available to the Group is recognised immediately in the income basis, taking into consideration long-term for similar financial instruments statement.
historical returns, asset allocation and future b Impairment of assets estimates of long-term investment returns.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for The Group tests annually whether goodwill The Group determines the appropriate hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss and other assets that have indefinite useful discount rate at the end of each year.
This existing in equity at that time remains in the lives suffered any impairment.
Other assets is the interest rate that should be used to 66 Annual Report 2012 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME CONSOLIDATED GROUP BALANCE SHEET CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS ACCOUNTING POLICIES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS determine the present value of estimated The amendments do not address which items including joint arrangements, associates, special future cash outflows expected to be are presented in OCI.
The amendments are purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet required to settle the pension obligations.
required to be adopted for accounting periods vehicles.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 12s beginning on or after 1st July 2012. full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 12 no In determining the appropriate discount later than the accounting period beginning on or rate, the Group considers the interest rates IAS 19, Employee benefits, was amended in after 1st January 2014. of high-quality corporate bonds that are June 2011.
The impact on the Group will be as denominated in the currency in which the follows: to replace interest cost and expected IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, aims to benefits will be paid, and that have terms to return on plan assets with a net interest amount improve consistency and reduce complexity by maturity approximating the terms of the that is calculated by applying the discount rate providing a precise definition of fair value and a related pension liability.
Other key to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
The single source of fair value measurement and assumptions for pension obligations are Group has estimated that the impact of the disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
based in part on current market conditions.
amendment is an increase of the net pension The requirements, which are largely aligned financing expenses of 5,200,000 for 2012. between IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend e Errors and omissions liability the use of fair value accounting but provide IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the During the ordinary course of business the guidance on how it should be applied where its classification, measurement and recognition of Group can be subject to claims for errors use is already required or permitted by other financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 and omissions made in connection with its standards within IFRSs or US GAAP.
The was issued in November 2009 and October broking activities.
amendments are required to be adopted for 2010.
It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate accounting periods beginning on or after 1st to the classification and measurement of A balance sheet provision is established in January 2013. financial instruments.
IFRS 9 requires financial respect of such claims when it is probable assets to be classified into two measurement that the liability has been incurred and the categories: those measured as at fair value and amount of the liability can be reasonably those measured at amortised cost.
determination is made at initial recognition.
The Group analyses its litigation exposures The classification depends on the entitys based on available information, including business model for managing its financial external legal consultation where instruments and the contractual cash flow appropriate, to assess its potential liability.
For financial The outcome of the currently pending and liabilities, the standard retains most of the IAS future proceedings cannot be predicted 39 requirements.
The main change is that, in with certainty.
Thus, an adverse decision in cases where the fair value option is taken for a current or future lawsuit could result in financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change additional costs that are not covered, either due to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in wholly or partially, under insurance policies other comprehensive income rather than the and are in excess of the presently income statement, unless this creates an established provisions.
It is possible accounting mismatch.
The group is yet to therefore that the financial position, results assess IFRS 9s full impact and intends to adopt of operations or cash flows of the Group IFRS 9 no later than the accounting period could be materially affected by the beginning on or after 1st January 2015.
The unfavourable outcome of litigation.
group will also consider the impact of the remaining phases of IFRS 9 when completed by Future developments the Board.
The following standards and amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, existing standards have been published and are builds on existing principles by identifying the mandatory for the Groups accounting periods concept of control as the determining factor in beginning on or after 1st January 2013 or later whether an entity should be included within the periods, but the Group has not adopted them consolidated financial statements of the parent early.
Unless otherwise indicated, none of the company.
The standard provides additional changes are expected to have a significant guidance to assist in the determination of impact on the Group: control where this is difficult to assess.
The Amendment to IAS 1, Financial statement Group is yet to assess IFRS 10s full impact and presentation regarding other comprehensive intends to adopt IFRS 10 no later than the income.
The main change resulting from these accounting period beginning on or after 1st amendments is a requirement for entities to January 2014. group items presented in other comprehensive IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other income OCI on the basis of whether they are entities, includes the disclosure requirements potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss for all forms of interests in other entities, subsequently reclassification adjustments.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2012 67
