Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Company law the Companies Guernsey Law 2008 requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The work carried out by the Auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Guernsey and the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
All companies with a Premium Listing of equity shares in the UK are required under the Listing Rules to report on how they have applied the Code in their Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Each of the Directors, whose names are set out on pages 6 and 7 of the Annual Report, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge and belief: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and The Directors report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the Group and of the position of the Company and the Group as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
