Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the ninety-seventh Annual General Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of relevant Meeting of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc will be securities Special Resolution held at Holborn Bars, 138-142 Holborn, London EC1N 2NQ on 11.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 10 set out above, Wednesday, 1st May 2013 at 2.30 p. m. for the following the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby purposes: empowered pursuant to Section 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st December Resolution 10 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if 2012.
Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the year ended 31st December 2012. allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,262,289, representing approximately 3.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares of 10% of the issued ordinary share capital as at the date of 7.5 pence per share.
the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the 4.
To reappoint Sarah Bates as a Chairman of the Company.
net asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by Resolution 10 above, 5.
To reappoint Kate Bolsover as a Director of the Company.
save that the Company may before such expiry make offers, 6.
To reappoint James Williams as a Director of the Company.
or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that the 7.
To reappoint Simon Bragg as a Director of the Company.
Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in 8.
To reappoint Alan Collins as a Director of the Company.
pursuant of such offers, or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation Special Resolution Special Business 12.
THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with To consider the following resolutions: Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the 10.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby Act of its issued shares of 25p each in the capital of the generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of Company ordinary shares.
any authorities previously granted to the Directors, PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers for the Company to allot i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to relevant securities within the meaning of Section 551 of the be purchased shall be 7,568,689 or if less, that number Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,262,289, of shares which is equal to 14.99% of the Companys representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution: resolution, provided that this authority shall expire at the ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company be 25p: to be held in 2014 unless renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that the Company may before such iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall expiry make offers, agreements or arrangements which be an amount equal to the highest of: a 105% of the would or might require relevant securities to be allotted average of the middle market quotations for a share after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company taken from and calculated by reference to the London may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offers, Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business agreements or arrangements as if the authority conferred days immediately preceding the day on which the share hereby had not expired.
is contracted to be purchased: or b the price of the last 62 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 independent trade: or c the highest current Article 121 1 b : appropriate the sum resolved to be independent bid: capitalised to the members in proportion to the nominal amounts of the shares whether or not fully iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for paid held by them respectively which would or in the cash or prices below the prevailing net asset value per case of treasury shares, which would if such shares share as determined by the Directors : were not held as treasury shares entitle them to v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on participate in a distribution of that sum if the shares 31st October 2014 unless the authority is renewed at the were fully paid and the sum were then distributable and Companys Annual General Meeting in 2014 or at any were distributed by way of dividend and apply such other general meeting prior to such time: and sum on their behalf either in or towards paying up the amounts, if any, for the time being unpaid on any shares vi the Company may make or contract to purchase shares held by them respectively, or in paying up in full shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry or debentures of the Company of a nominal amount of such authority and may make a purchase of shares equal to that sum, and allot such shares or debentures pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding such credited as fully paid to those members or as they may expiry.
direct, in those proportions, or partly in one way and Amendment of Articles of Association to permit the distribution of partly in the other.
capital profits Special Resolution Amendment of Articles of Association - to amend the maximum 13.
THAT the Companys Articles of Association be amended by aggregate Directors fees payable Special Resolution deleting the existing Articles 111, 120 2 and 121 1 b and 14.
THAT in accordance with Article 97 of the Companys inserting the following new Articles 111, 120 2 and 121 1 b Articles of Association, the maximum aggregate Directors in their place: fees payable be increased from 175,000 to 225,000 per Article 111: The Company may by ordinary resolution annum with immediate effect.
declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
If any shares or By order of the Board securities are purchased cum dividend or interest such Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of dividend or interest when paid may, at the discretion of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, the Board, be treated as revenue and it shall not be Secretary obligatory to capitalise the same or any part thereof.
25th March 2013 Article 120 2 : Any surplus over the book value derived from the sale or realisation of any capital asset including any surplus arising on changes or transpositions of investments shall be credited to a Capital Reserve or applied for some capital purpose, including a distribution to shareholders out of capital.
There shall also be credited to such Reserve, or applied as aforesaid, any other sums representing accretions to capital assets, including in particular any sums resulting from the writing up of the book values of any capital assets.
Such Reserve may be used to meet depreciation of capital assets or for the improvement of capital assets or for such other capital purposes as the Board may think fit.
Any taxation arising in consequence of the disposal of any capital asset and any deficit below book value resulting on the disposal of any capital asset may be debited in whole or in part against such Reserve.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 63 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 6.
Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the arrangement.
reverse of the proxy form.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint individuals to 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint act as its representatives and to vote in person at the meeting see another person s who need not be a member of the Company instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the rights attaching to different shares held by him.
company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the designated corporate representative.
Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who Representatives should bring to the meeting evidence of their has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and whether statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: a the he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors report meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
b any circumstances connected with Auditors of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM, which the members If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
propose to raise at the Meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in statement placed on the website must also be sent to the accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
Companys Auditors no later than the time it makes its statement 4.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been above also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any required to publish on its website pursuant to this right.
attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after 9.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member same share in respect of the same meeting, the one which is last attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards of the Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential that share if the Company is unable to determine which was last information.
received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
Under Sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to 5.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the require the Company: i to give, to members of the Company purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys which those members intend to move and which may properly be register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be meeting the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the resolution which may properly be included in the business at the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of Meeting.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any at the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is adjourned for inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard business days prior to the adjourned meeting or, if the Company copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in that notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, notice changes to entries on the register after this time shall be must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
must be received by the Company not later than the date that is six 64 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be Saturdays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available included in the business only must be accompanied by a for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director has any statement setting out the grounds for the request.
contract of service with the Company.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated than those expressly stated.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a 15.
As an alternative to completing a hardcopy Form of Proxy Voting Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
Direction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an by visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, agreement between him and the member by whom he was Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have numbers printed under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have Direction Form.
Alternatively, if you have already registered with such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right Equiniti Limiteds online portfolio service, Shareview, you can under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to submit your Form of Proxy at www.
Full the exercise of voting rights.
instructions are given on both websites.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the 16.
As at 15th March 2013 being the latest business day prior to the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting consists of 50,491,592 shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to the total voting rights in the Company are 50,491,592. exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Electronic appointment CREST members Companys website www.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during usual business hours on any weekday JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
