Glossary of Terms and Definitions Return to Shareholders Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value NAV per Share Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends received per share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The were reinvested, without transaction costs, into the shares of discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV per share.
The the Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a Return on Net Assets premium.
Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out Performance Attribution by the Company were reinvested, into the shares of the Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded Company at the NAV per share at the time the shares were performance relative to its benchmark.
Performance Attribution Definitions: Benchmark Return Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to Allocation Effect mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Measures the effect of allocating assets to sectors or asset were reinvested, without transaction costs, into the shares of types differently to the weighting in the benchmark.
the underlying companies at the time the shares were quoted Selection Effect ex-dividend.
Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys investing in securities which are excluded from the benchmark.
The Companys investment strategy does Gearing Net Cash not track this index and consequently there may be some Measures the impact of borrowings or cash balances on the divergence between the Companys performance and that of Companys performance relative to its benchmark.
Currency Hedge Actual Gearing Factor Measures the effect on the Companys performance of a gain or Investments excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed as loss arising from the Companys hedging activities.
This shows the effect of gearing on the net asset value if the market value of the portfolio were to Management Fee Expenses increase by 100%.
The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets and therefore has a negative effect on the Companys Ongoing Charges relative performance.
The ongoing charges represent the Companys management fee and all other operating expenses excluding finance costs Shares Issued payable, expressed as a percentage of the average of the daily The issue of shares at a price in excess of the net asset value net assets during the year and is calculated in accordance with per share, has a positive effect on the Companys relative guidance issued by the Association of Investment Companies.
The method of calculating the ongoing charges 2011: Total Expense Ratio or TER has changed.
The TER represented the Companys management fee and all other operating expenses excluding interest, expressed as a percentage of the average of the month end net assets during the year.
66 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Warning to shareholders Boiler Room Scams In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have been targeted by unauthorised overseas-based brokers selling what turn out to be non-existent or high risk shares, or expressing a wish to buy their shares.
If you receive unsolicited investment advice or requests: Make sure you get the correct name of the person or organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk pages register Report the matter to the FSA by calling 0845 606 1234 If the calls persist, hang up.
More detailed information on this can be found on the Money Advice Service website www.
uk 68 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Information about the Company Financial Calendar Financial year end 31st December Final results announced March Half year end 30th June Half year results announced August Interim Management Statements announced April and October Dividend on ordinary shares paid May October Interest payments on 6.875% debenture stock 2018 June December Annual General Meeting May History Manager and Company Secretary The Company has its origins in the Alabama, New Orleans, Texas and JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited Pacific Junction Railways Company Limited which was formed in 1881 Companys Registered Office to acquire interests in, and to undertake the completion of, three Finsbury Dials American railroads the Vicksburg and Meridian, the Vicksburg, 20 Finsbury Street Shreveport and Pacific and the New Orleans and North Eastern.
London EC2Y 9AQ In 1917 the Company was reorganised, a proportion of the railroad Telephone number: 020 7742 4000 interests were sold, and the investment powers were widened For company secretarial and administrative matters, please contact enabling its assets to be invested in several countries including the Alison Vincent.
To reflect the new objectives the name was changed to The Sterling Trust.
The Companys investment policy Custodian reverted to North American securities in 1982 when the name was JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. changed to The Fleming American Investment Trust plc.
The name 25 Bank Street was changed to JPMorgan Fleming American Investment Trust plc in Canary Wharf April 2002 and to its present form in 2006.
JPMorgan, and its London E14 5JP predecessor company, has been the Companys manager and secretary since 1966.
Registrars Equiniti Limited Company Numbers Reference 1077 Company registration number: 15543 Aspect House London Stock Exchange number: 08456505 Spencer Road ISIN: GB0008465055 West Sussex BN99 6DA Bloomberg code: JAM LN Telephone number: 0871 384 2316 Market Information Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other The Companys net asset value NAV is published daily via the London providers costs may vary.
Lines open 8.30 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. Monday to Stock Exchange.
The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Friday.
The overseas helpline number is 44 0 121 415 7047 Exchange and the price is noted daily in the Financial Times, The Times, Notifications of changes of address and enquiries regarding share The Daily Telegraph, The Scotsman, The Independent and on the certificates or dividend cheques should be made in writing to the J. P. Morgan website at www.
co. uk, where the share price Registrar quoting reference 1077. is updated every fifteen minutes during trading hours.
Registered shareholders can obtain further details on their holdings on the internet by visiting www.
co. uk Independent Auditor Deloitte LLP Share Transactions Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor The Companys shares may be dealt in directly through a stockbroker 2 New Street Square or professional adviser acting on an investors behalf.
They may also be London EC4A 3ZB purchased and held through the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, J. P. Morgan ISA and J. P. Morgan SIPP.
These products are all available Brokers on the online wealth manager service, J. P. Morgan WealthManager Canaccord Genuity Limited available at www.
co. uk 88 Wood Street London EC2V 7QR Savings Product Administrators For queries on the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, J. P. Morgan ISA and J. P. Morgan SIPP, see contact details on the back cover of this report.
A member of the AIC JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
