Glossary of Terms and Definitions Portfolio return Benchmark return Return on net assets, net of management fees and Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to administration expenses, but excluding both the effect of mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Subscription shares which have been converted during the were reinvested in the shares of the underlying companies at year and the dilutive impact of Subscription shares in issue at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should Return to Ordinary shareholders Unit holders not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy does Total return to the Ordinary shareholder, or Unit holder, on a not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be mid-market price to mid-market price basis, assuming that all some divergence between the Companys performance and dividends received were reinvested, without transaction costs, that of the benchmark.
in the Ordinary shares of the Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Actual gearing factor Diluted net asset value NAV per Ordinary share Investments, excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect The NAV per Ordinary share assuming that all outstanding of gearing on the net asset value per share if the market value Subscription shares were converted into Ordinary shares at the of the portfolio were to increase by 100%.
Ongoing charges Diluted return on net assets The ongoing charges represents the Companys management Return on the diluted net asset value NAV per share, on a bid fee and all other operating expenses excluding interest and value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out performance fee payable, expressed as a percentage of the by the Company were reinvested in the shares of the Company average of the daily net assets during the year and is calculated at the NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted in accordance with guidance issued by the Association of ex-dividend.
In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which The method of calculating the ongoing charges 2011: total have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet expense ratio or TER has changed.
The TER represented the date are deducted from the diluted NAV per share when Companys management fee and all other operating expenses calculating the diluted return on net assets.
excluding interest, expressed as a percentage of the average of the month end net asset during the year.
In 2009 and previous Undiluted return on net assets years, the TER represented the Companys management fee Return on the undiluted net asset value NAV per share, on a and other operating expenses excluding interest, expressed as bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid a percentage of the average of the opening and closing net out by the Company were reinvested in the shares of the assets.
Company at the NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Share price discount premium to net asset value NAV In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a date are deducted from the undiluted NAV per share when discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV calculating the undiluted return on net assets.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
60 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Performance attribution Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
Performance attribution definitions: Asset allocation Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different countries, sectors or asset types.
Stock selection Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in securities which are not included in the benchmark.
Gearing cash Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash balances on the Companys relative performance.
Currency Measures the impact of currency exposure differences between the Companys portfolio and its benchmark.
Management fee other expenses The payment of fees and expenses reduces the Companys net assets and therefore has a negative effect on relative performance.
Performance fee The Company may be required to make provision for a performance fee payable under the terms of the performance fee agreement.
This will reduce the Companys net assets and therefore have a negative effect on relative performance.
Exercise of Subscription shares Measures the negative impact on the net asset value NAV per share arising from the exercise of Subscription shares into Ordinary shares at a price less than the NAV per share.
Subscription share dilution Measures the dilutive impact on the net asset value NAV per share arising from the potential exercise of all the outstanding Subscription shares into Ordinary shares at a price less than the NAV per share.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 61 Notes 62 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 63 Notes 64 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
