Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking regulations.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Remuneration Report and Statement of Corporate United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Governance that comply with that law and those regulations.
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of knowledge: the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting consistently: Standards and applicable law, give a true and fair view of make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and the assets, liabilities, financial position and return or loss of prudent: the Company: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have the Directors Report includes a fair review of the been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed development and performance of the business and the and explained in the financial statements: and position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
For and on behalf of the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Alan Saunders, records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Chairman transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 5th October 2012 time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
