Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 General information BTG plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2012 comprise the results of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in associates.
The financial statements were approved for issue by the Board on 18 May 2012.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Groups accounting policies as approved by the Board and described below.
Accounting standards adopted in the year No accounting standards adopted in the year have had a significant effect on the financial statements.
Other amendments and standards have been adopted, but have had no significant effect on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
Accounting standards issued but not yet effective The Group does not consider that any of the other standards or interpretations issued but as yet not effective will have a significant impact on the financial statements.
Going concern basis After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
This conclusion has been reached having considered the effect of liquidity risk on the Groups ability to operate effectively.
Currently, liquidity risk is not considered a significant business risk to the Group given its level of net cash and cash flow projections.
The Group does not currently require significant levels of debt financing to operate its business.
Further details of the Groups policies and objectives around liquidity risk are given in note 29 and are discussed in the business review on pages 16 to 20.
The key liquidity risks faced by the Group are considered to be the failure of banks where funds are deposited and the failure of key licensees, distribution partners, wholesalers or insurers.
In addition to the liquidity risks considered above, the directors have also considered the following factors when reaching the conclusion to continue to adopt the going concern basis: The Groups principal licensees are global industry leaders in their respective fields and the Groups royalty-generating intellectual property consists of a broad portfolio of both licensees and industries: The Groups marketed products are life-saving in nature, providing some protection against an uncertain economic outlook: and The Group remains in a cash generative position for the year with cash, cash equivalents and held to maturity financial assets totalling 111.9m as at 31 March 2012.
Acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs The consolidated income statement includes a separate column to disclose significant acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs arising on corporate acquisitions.
Adjustments relate to the acquisitions of: Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011: and Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008.
The costs relate to the following: The release of the fair value uplift of inventory acquired: Amortisation and impairment arising on intangible assets acquired: Transaction costs incurred with professional advisers in relation to the completion of the acquisition: Reorganisation costs comprising acquisition related redundancy programmes, property costs, and asset impairments: and Fair value adjustments to contingent consideration on corporate acquisitions.
85 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented unless otherwise stated.
a Basis of accounting and preparation of financial statements The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The consolidated financial statements also comply fully with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The Group financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1m except where otherwise indicated and have been prepared on the historical cost basis modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments and business combination assets as set out below.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Judgements made by the directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 3. b Basis of consolidation i Subsidiary undertakings Subsidiary undertakings are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups proportionate share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity-accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds the carrying value of its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and no further losses are recognised except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
iii Acquisition accounting The purchase method is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed are measured initially at their fair values on the date of acquisition, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets, including intangible assets acquired, is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
iv Merger reserve A merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006. v Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations that are not integral to the operations of the Company.
86 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 2 Significant accounting policies continued vi Fair value reserve The fair value reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments.
If an investment suffers impairment due to a prolonged or significant decline in the fair value below acquisition cost, its share of the reserve is recycled to the income statement and any further declines in fair value of that investment are no longer charged to the reserve but immediately taken to the income statement.
vii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
c Operating segments An operating segment is defined as a component of the Group i that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses: ii whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Groups chief operating decision maker the Leadership Team to make resource allocation decisions and monitor its performance: and iii for which discrete financial information is available.
d Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
Exchange gains losses on retranslation of foreign currency transactions and balances within trading intercompany balances are recognised in the income statement within Operating expenses.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in the translation reserve.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to the translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal of the investment.
e Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value and are designated as being measured at fair value through the income statement on inception.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement through Financial income or Financial expense as appropriate.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
f Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and associates.
In respect of business combinations that have occurred since 1 April 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable assets, including intangible assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment see 2 m. In respect of associates, the carrying value of goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment in the associate.
87 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued g Intangible assets i Initial recognition Intangible assets acquired as a result of a business combination are initially recognised at their fair value in accordance with IFRS3 Business Combinations.
Other intangible assets are initially recognised at cost.
Cost includes the cost of obtaining patent protection for intellectual property rights, the cost of acquisition of patents and the costs of the internal patent attorney specific to obtaining the initial grant of a patent.
Income from patents is derived through licensing and other agreements.
ii Amortisation Intangible assets are amortised in a manner calculated to write off the cost, on a straight-line basis, over the effective life of the asset.
In determining the appropriate life of the asset, consideration is given to the expected cash generating life of the asset or remaining patent life if different.
The effective life of each class of asset is determined as follows: Developed technology: expected cash generating life, taking into account specific product and market characteristics for each developed technology: Contractual relationships: period to expiry of the contract: In-process research and development: amortisation is not charged until the asset is generating an economic return, at which point the effective life is assessed by reference to the remaining patent life: Computer software: the shorter of the licence period and three years: Patents: period to patent expiry: and Purchase of contractual rights: period to expiry of the contract.
In the event that an intangible asset is no longer used or a patent is abandoned, the balance of unamortised expenditure is written off immediately.
The following useful economic lives are applied: Developed technology 2 to 25 years Contractual relationships 2 to 15 years In-process research and development 12 to 25 years Computer software 3 years Patents 20 years Purchase of contractual rights 2 to 10 years iii Income statement disclosure Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets is included within Operating expenses in the income statement.
iv Subsequent expenditure Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
v Impairment If an intangible asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value it is written down to its estimated recoverable amount in accordance with the Groups policy on impairment see note 2 m. h Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses see note 2 m. 88 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 2 Significant accounting policies continued ii Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis to write assets down to their residual value using the following useful economics lives: Buildings and improvements 10 to 20 years Leasehold improvements 2 to 10 years Plant and machinery 3 to 15 years Furniture and equipment 2 to 15 years Motor vehicles 5 years Computer hardware 3 to 5 years Depreciation is not charged until the asset is brought into use.
The residual value is reassessed annually.
iii Income statement disclosure Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment is included within Operating expenses in the income statement.
Profits and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with the carrying amount.
These are included in profit loss on sale of property, plant and equipment in the income statement.
iv Subsequent expenditure Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of a property, plant and equipment asset is capitalised only when it is probable that the Group will realise future economic benefits from the asset.
v Impairment If a property, plant and equipment asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value it is written down to its estimated recoverable amount in accordance with the Groups policy on impairment see note 2 m. i Investments Investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group, classified as being available-for-sale, are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity, except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items such as debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses which are taken to the income statement.
When these investments are no longer recognised as assets, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the income statement.
j Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The first in, first out method of valuation is used.
Cost comprises materials, direct labour and a share of production overheads appropriate to the relevant stage of production.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
Net realisable value is determined at the balance sheet date on commercially saleable products based on estimated selling price less all further costs to completion and all relevant marketing, selling and distribution costs.
Inventories relating to research and development projects are fully written down in the income statement unless the Group considers it probable to realise economic value from their sale or use.
If the circumstances that previously caused these inventories to be written down below cost subsequently change and there is clear evidence of an increase in realisable value, the write down is reversed.
k Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables do not carry interest and are stated at amortised cost less impairment losses see 2 m. 89 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued l Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management and for which the Group has a legal right of set-off are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Cash deposits with a maturity of greater than three months are classified as held to maturity financial assets.
m Impairment Impairment testing is performed for all assets when there is an indicator of impairment.
In addition, for goodwill and unamortised intangible assets, impairment testing is performed both in the year of acquisition and annually at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Other specific categories of asset are treated as follows: i Equity investments Impairment is deemed to arise when there is a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the equity instrument.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
ii Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date and whenever there are events that indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
An impairment loss is recognised if an assets carrying amount exceeds the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses are recognised within Operating expenses in the income statement.
iii Amortised intangible assets Amortised intangible assets are also tested for impairment whenever there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Any impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
When assessing the recoverable amount of an intangible asset the Group uses a risk adjusted discounted cash flow model.
iv Available-for-sale assets When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement.
The amount of the cumulative loss that is recognised in the income statement is the difference between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale is not reversed through the income statement.
If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in the income statement.
n Government grants Government grants towards staff retraining costs are recognised as income over the periods in which the related costs are incurred and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income statement over the useful lives of the assets concerned.
90 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 2 Significant accounting policies continued o Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with in the same manner as payments to defined contribution plans where the Groups obligations under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution retirement benefit plan.
The funds of the schemes are independent of the Groups finances.
ii Defined benefit plan For the Groups defined benefit pension plan, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Allowance is made in the assessment of the defined benefit obligation for future costs of administering the scheme.
The assumptions used to determine the valuation are shown in note 25.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits have already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, reduced by the fair value of plan assets.
The retirement benefit obligation includes an allowance for future administrative costs of running the plan.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Assets of the pension plan are held separately from the Groups assets.
iii Share-based payments In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS2 Share-based Payments has been applied to all share-based grants made to employees after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as of 1 January 2005.
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company, subject to certain criteria.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an expense of employment in the income statement with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at the date of grant and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a binomial lattice model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense in any year is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
However if share options fail to vest due to share prices not achieving the designated performance threshold for vesting, no such adjustment takes place.
p Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
A charge for reorganisation costs is taken to the income statement when the Group has approved a detailed and formal reorganisation plan, and the reorganisation has either commenced or the Group has a constructive obligation, for example having made an announcement publicly to the employee or the Group as a whole.
91 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued q Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost except for the contingent value note and other contingent considerations which are recognised at fair value.
r Revenue recognition Revenue represents amounts received or receivable in respect of the sale of marketed products to customers during the year, net of trade discounts given and value added tax, and in respect of royalty arrangements.
A description of the various elements of revenue and the associated accounting policies is given below: i Marketed products The Group recognises revenue for marketed product sales when each condition of IAS18, paragraph 14 is wholly satisfied.
Where sales arrangements specify a second element of revenue contingent upon a specified event, this revenue is not recognised until this event has occurred and it is certain that the economic benefit triggered by this event will flow to the Group.
In cases where product is sold to a customer with a right of replacement, the Group views the transaction as a multi-element arrangement and a portion of the value from the sale is deferred and allocated to the replacement right based on the fair value of the replacement right.
Revenue is recognised net of any trade discounts that may be given from time-to-time.
ii Royalties Revenues from the Groups licensed programmes are generated following the grant of a licence to a third party to undertake additional development and commercialisation of a research and development programme or other intellectual property rights.
In addition to an upfront payment, BTG may be entitled to additional revenues such as milestone payments or royalties on revenues generated by the licensee.
Revenues associated with royalty arrangements may in turn be linked to additional obligations on BTG.
These revenues are accounted for in line with IAS18 as follows: Upfront and milestone payments Non-refundable upfront and milestone payments are recognised as the earnings process is completed.
This may result in full recognition in the year in which the income is received.
However, where the Group has ongoing performance obligations such as the delivery of products or services, upfront payments are deferred over the period in which these obligations are satisfied.
Associated costs of performance obligations are expensed in the period to which they relate.
In determining the performance obligations under the contract, consideration is given as to whether elements of the obligations meet the criteria for separate accounting.
The Group applies the substantive milestone method in accounting for subsequent milestone payments.
Milestone payments that are considered substantive are recognised into income in the year in which they are received.
Milestones that do not satisfy the criteria to be considered as substantive are amortised over the remaining period in which the Group expects to fulfil its performance obligations under the agreement.
The Group considers the following when assessing whether a milestone is considered substantive: Are the milestone payments non-refundable?
Does the achievement of the milestone involve a degree of risk that was not reasonably assured at the inception of the arrangement?
Is substantive effort involved in achieving the milestone?
Is the amount of the milestone payment reasonable in relation to the effort expended or the risk associated with the achievement of the milestone?
How does the time that passes between the payments compare to the effort required to reach the milestone?
Outlicensed product royalties Royalty income is generated by sales of products incorporating the Groups proprietary technology.
Royalty revenues are recognised once the amounts due can be reliably estimated based on the sale of underlying products and recoverability is assured.
Where there is insufficient historical data on sales and returns to fulfil these requirements, for example in the case of a new product, the royalty revenue will not be recognised until the Group can reliably estimate the underlying sales.
92 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 2 Significant accounting policies continued iii Sales assignments of IPR Outright sales or assignments of IPR are treated as disposals of non-current assets.
iv Revenues received in relation to development programmes Revenue received in relation to development programmes is recognised based on the percentage of completion of the programme.
Where payments may be earned in such programmes based on the achievement of uncertain milestones, revenue is restricted to the cumulative cash receivable for the programme.
s Research and development Research and development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Expenditure incurred on development projects relating to the design and testing of new or improved products is recognised as intangible assets when it is probable that the project will generate future economic benefit, considering factors including its commercial and technological feasibility, status of regulatory approval, and the ability to measure costs reliably.
Other development expenditures are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development expenditure previously recognised as an expense is not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Development expenditure that has a finite useful life and which has been capitalised is amortised from the commencement of the commercial production of the product on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected benefit.
No development expenditure has been capitalised in either the current or prior year.
Property, plant and equipment used for research and development is depreciated in accordance with the Groups policy and the cost is included within Research and development in the income statement.
t Cost of sales Cost of sales includes the direct costs incurred in manufacturing and bringing products to sale in the market and revenue sharing costs.
Revenue sharing costs represent amounts due under royalty arrangements to licensors or assignees of technology and similar directly attributable items.
Amounts are recognised upon recognition by the Group of amounts due from a licensee.
They are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the individual agreements relating to the relevant technology, in line with revenue recognition.
u Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Such assets are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the length of the lease.
Assets purchased under hire purchase agreements are accounted for similarly, except that these assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease within the appropriate functional expenditure heading.
v Net financial income Net financial income comprises interest income less interest payable during the year, calculated using the effective interest rate method, and fair value adjustments relating to foreign exchange forward contracts, contingent considerations payable upon corporate and non-corporate acquisitions and borrowings.
93 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued w Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, where it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying value of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
x BTG Employee Share Trust Included within the Groups financial results are those of the BTG Employee Share Trust, the costs of which are expensed within the financial statements of the Trust as incurred.
In the Company accounts, the cost of BTG shares held by the Trust is deducted from shareholders funds.
y Financial guarantees Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contracts as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
z Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate.
aa Biological assets Biological assets are recognised when the asset is controlled by the Group and it is probable future economic benefit will arise from activities associated with the asset.
Biological assets are measured at fair value less estimated point-of-sale costs.
Any gains or losses in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical accounting judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, described in note 2, management and the Audit Committee discussed and agreed the selection, application and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and the estimates used in the preparation of the accounts.
94 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Revenue recognition As described in note 2, it is the Groups policy to recognise non-refundable upfront payments over the period in which any performance obligations are satisfied.
On 4 December 2008, the Group acquired Protherics which had received 16.3m from AstraZeneca UK Ltd in a Patent and know-how Licence Agreement for AZD9773 CytoFab.
The Group considers that its obligations under the licence agreement consist of the licence, provision of development services, regulatory support and steering committee participation.
The Group considers that the development services and the regulatory support it can supply will cease with the approval of AZD9773 CytoFab by the FDA and while the steering committee continues to operate after product approval by the FDA, the Group has received confirmation that its participation after this date would become voluntary.
Based on the clinical development plan to be undertaken by AstraZeneca, the Group currently estimates that its performance under the agreement will be completed over the period to 31 December 2015 and, therefore, is recognising the 16.3m on a straight-line basis, over the estimated performance period.
In determining the revenue recognition period, management considered the detailed criteria for the recognition of revenue per IAS18, Revenue, and is satisfied that all requirements have been met by the Group.
Acquisitions Judgements have been made in respect of the identification of intangible assets made on acquisitions based on pre-acquisition forecasts, analysis and negotiations.
In addition to the judgements and estimates made in establishing the intangible assets acquired and their value, in certain instances these assets are in development and are only amortised once the development phase has been completed, although these assets are subjected to impairment review in accordance with the accounting policy described in note 2 m. In addition to significant fair value adjustments in relation to intangible assets, the Group has recognised other fair value adjustments on assets and liabilities acquired.
Each adjustment has been calculated in line with the requirements of IFRS3 revised.
The most significant of these relate to: Inventory: where inventory acquired has been uplifted in value to be held at estimated selling price less costs to complete, costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance: and Deferred tax: where estimates of deferred tax liabilities arising on acquired intangible assets have been recognised.
Where appropriate an associated deferred tax asset, representing managements estimation of the value of tax losses that would be available to the Group to offset the deferred tax liability see below, has also been recognised.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles Determining whether goodwill and other intangibles are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cashgenerating units to which goodwill or other intangible assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
There is a risk of a material adverse impact on the income statement should an impairment adjustment be required to be reflected in the financial statements.
See note 2 m for further details.
Fair value of listed and unlisted investments Note 17 explains the basis for estimating the fair value of listed and unlisted investments.
Pension assumptions Note 25 details the key actuarial assumptions used to establish the pension funding position.
These represent managements best estimates and are chosen based on historic experience and future expectations.
Should the discount rate used to establish scheme liabilities or the long-term expected rate of return on investment vary significantly then the pension fund valuation would be impacted.
95 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Deferred tax The Group has significant deferred tax assets principally in relation to losses in the US and the UK.
The assets have been recognised on the basis that management estimates demonstrate that it is more likely than not that future taxable profit will arise in the jurisdictions in which the losses are available.
If actual events differ from managements estimates or the estimates are changed in the future, this could have a significant effect on the balance sheet net asset position of the Group.
In recognising deferred tax assets and liabilities, management has taken into account expected changes in tax rates in each relevant jurisdiction.
4 Operating segments Following the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011, subsequent integration activities have resulted in a change to the Groups reportable segments, effective from 1 April 2011.
The Group has aligned behind three reportable segments, being Specialty Pharmaceuticals, Interventional Medicine and Licensing & Biotechnology.
In assessing performance and making resource allocation decisions, the Leadership Team which is BTGs chief operating decision-making body reviews contribution by segment.
Contribution is defined as being gross profit less directly attributable selling, general and administrative costs SG&A.
The Licensing & Biotechnology operating segment includes SG&A relating to the Groups centrally managed support functions and corporate overheads.
This reflects the management structure and stewardship of the business.
No allocation of central overheads is made across the Specialty Pharmaceuticals or Interventional Medicine operating segments.
Research and development continues to be managed on a global basis, with investment decisions being made by the Leadership Team as a whole.
It is not managed by reference to the Groups operating segments, though each programme within the pipeline would ultimately provide revenues for one of the operating segments if successful.
There are no inter-segment transactions that are required to be eliminated on consolidation.
Prior period comparative numbers are presented in accordance with the new segmental reporting.
Year ended 31 March 2012 Specialty Interventional Licensing & Pharmaceuticals Medicine Biotechnology Total m m m m Revenue 76.7 28.7 91.6 197.0 1 Cost of sales 18.7 8.6 29.0 56.3 Gross profit 58.0 20.1 62.6 140.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses 18.6 13.3 17.0 48.9 Contribution 39.4 6.8 45.6 91.8 Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 30.7 Foreign exchange gains 2.6 Research and development 39.7 Amounts written off property, plant and equipment 3.0 Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments 0.2 Acquisition and reorganisation costs 1.1 Amounts written off investments 0.2 Operating profit 19.9 Financial income 4.7 Financial expense 1.6 Profit before tax 23.0 Tax 8.4 Profit for the year 14.6 Unallocated assets 505.8 96 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 4 Operating segments continued Year ended 31 March 2011 Specialty Interventional Licensing & Pharmaceuticals Medicine Biotechnology Total m m m m Revenue 35.4 5.6 70.4 111.4 1 Cost of sales 8.8 2.9 22.4 34.1 Gross profit 26.6 2.7 48.0 77.3 Selling, general and administrative expenses 15.8 2.5 15.4 33.7 Contribution 10.8 0.2 32.6 43.6 Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 10.0 Amortisation of repurchase of contractual rights 9.6 Foreign exchange losses 2.0 Research and development 32.1 Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments 1.5 Acquisition and reorganisation costs 3.8 Amounts written off investments 1.4 Operating loss 13.8 Financial income 3.1 Financial expense 0.1 Loss before tax 10.8 Tax 20.0 Profit for the year 9.2 Unallocated assets 488.5 1 2012 includes a 2.1m 10 11: 1.7m release of the fair value uplift of inventory purchased on the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc on 27January 2011 within the Interventional Medicine segment representing the reversal of a fair value uplift of inventory purchased on acquisition recognised through the income statement when the product was sold.
Revenue analysis Analysis of revenue, based on the geographical location of customers and the source of revenue is provided below: Geographical analysis Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m USA 168.1 96.2 UK 10.0 9.3 Europe excluding UK 15.1 5.0 Other regions 3.8 0.9 197.0 111.4 97 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4 Operating segments continued Revenue from major products and services Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Product sales 106.7 41.2 Royalties 79.2 60.3 Other 11.1 9.9 197.0 111.4 Major customers Products that utilise the Groups intellectual property rights are sold by licensees.
Royalty income is derived from over 70 licences.
Two licences individually generated royalty income in excess of 10% of Group revenue, being 29.4m and 24.4m respectively 10 11: Two licences generated 28.7m and 12.4m respectively.
The Groups marketed products are sold both directly and through several distribution agreements in the USA, Europe and Asia Pacific region.
Two wholesalers individually generated income in excess of 10% of Group revenue, being 22.3m and 21.9m respectively 10 11: One distribution agreement generated 12.4m.
5 Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m 1 Profit on disposal of patents 0.2 1.5 1 The prior year profit is shown net of 1.8m to be shared with the inventive source.
Loss relief has absorbed the tax due in respect of the profit on disposals.
6 Acquisition and reorganisation costs Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m BTG plc and Biocompatibles International plc costs 1.1 3.8 The Group considers Acquisition and reorganisation costs to include transaction costs of completing the acquisition and those costs resulting directly from decisions to rationalise both operating sites and business operations.
In the prior year transaction costs of 3.0m were expensed in relation to the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc.
7 Amounts written off investments Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Amounts written off investments 0.2 1.4 In the prior year an impairment charge of 1.4m was recognised in the consolidated income statement in relation to one of the Groups equity investments in an unlisted drug development company.
98 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 8 Operating profit loss Year ended 31 March 2012 Year ended 31 March 2011 Existing Continuing Existing Continuing operations Acquisitions operations operations Acquisitions operations m m m m m m Revenue 197.0 197.0 105.4 6.0 111.4 1 Cost of sales 56.3 56.3 31.1 3.0 34.1 Gross profit 140.7 140.7 74.3 3.0 77.3 Operating expenses 77.0 77.0 52.8 2.5 55.3 Research and development 39.7 39.7 30.6 1.5 32.1 Profit on disposal of assets and investments 0.2 0.2 1.5 1.5 Amounts written off property, plant and equipment 3.0 3.0 Acquisition and reorganisation costs 1.1 1.1 3.8 3.8 Amounts written off investments 0.2 0.2 1.4 1.4 Operating profit loss 19.9 19.9 12.8 1.0 13.8 1 In accordance with IFRS3 Revised, Business Combinations, inventory acquired upon corporate acquisitions has been adjusted to fair value to reflect the profit earned based on the stage of manufacture at the date of acquisition see note 34.
During the year 2.1m 10 11: 1.7m of fair value adjustments was incorporated within the cost of sales as the inventory was sold to customers.
Operating profit loss has been arrived at after charging crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 Note m m Depreciation and other amounts written off property, plant and equipment 16 6.2 2.4 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 15 31.9 21.5 Amounts written off investments 7 0.2 1.4 Net foreign exchange gains losses 2.6 2.0 Research and development expenses 39.7 32.1 Staff costs 9 40.6 26.8 Operating lease rentals payable on property 1.9 1.3 Operating lease rentals receivable on property 0.3 Reorganisation costs, including release of onerous lease provision 6 1.1 3.8 The analysis of the auditors remuneration is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m The auditing of accounts of any associate of the company 418 448 Audit related assurance services 50 433 Taxation compliance services 46 47 All services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 380 All other non audit services 21 A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 54 to 58 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
99 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 9 Staff costs Staff costs including directors emoluments and reorganisation costs are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Salaries 32.8 21.6 Social security costs 3.3 2.1 Defined contribution pension costs 1.7 1.3 Defined benefit pension costs 0.4 0.7 Equity-settled transactions 2.4 1.1 40.6 26.8 Staff costs in the year ended 31 March 2011 include those relating to Biocompatibles International plc for the period from acquisition to the end of the financial year, being approximately 2 months.
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 75.
In addition to the disclosures in the Remuneration Report, the charge to income in respect of equity-settled transactions of key management personnel, in accordance with IFRS2, was 0.9m 10 11: 0.6m.
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year including executive directors, analysed by category, was as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 Number Number Management 50 36 Research and production 312 213 Administration and business support 136 82 498 331 Staff numbers in the year ended 31 March 2011 include those relating to Biocompatibles International plc for the period from acquisition to the end of the financial year, being approximately 2 months.
10 Financial income Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Interest receivable on money-market and bank deposits 0.7 0.4 1 Fair value changes on Contingent Value Notes 1.1 2 Fair value changes of borrowings 2.9 Fair value changes of foreign exchange forward contracts 2.7 4.7 3.1 1 Contingent Value Notes As part of BTGs acquisition of Biocompatibles on 27 January 2011, 487 Biocompatibles shareholders elected to receive in aggregate 10,722,465 Contingent Value Notes CVNs providing a right to a payment of the Sterling equivalent of 0.56 per Biocompatibles share if AstraZeneca exercised its option to enter into a licence agreement relating to CM-3 on the pre-agreed terms.
As a result of AstraZenecas decision to terminate the development and option agreement see note 15, it is highly unlikely that any payment will be made in relation to the CVNs.
The payment obligation would only now arise if BTG enters into another form of licence, sale or other disposal of the GLP-1 asset to AstraZeneca prior to 31 December 2012.
The BTG Board does not believe that there is any realistic possibility that this will occur.
Accordingly, the Group has derecognised a liability of 1.1m in relation to the CVN through the income statement in financial income in the acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs column.
100 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 10 Financial income continued 2 Borrowings Following the withdrawal of the Novabel product from the market, termination of the supply agreement with Merz and subsequent impairments recognised within property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, the Group has derecognised a 2.8m loan from Merz as there is no obligation for this to be repaid.
The loan was received to fund the purchase of property, plant and equipment for use in the manufacture of Novabel and was repayable out of revenues.
11 Financial expense Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Interest payable on finance lease and hire purchase borrowings 0.1 Fair value changes of foreign exchange forward contracts 1.5 Others 0.1 1.6 0.1 12 Tax An analysis of the tax charge credit for the year, all relating to current operations, is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Current tax UK corporation tax charge 2.8 Overseas corporate tax charge 0.9 0.2 Overseas income tax 1.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 Total current tax 3.9 1.6 Deferred taxation Deferred tax 5.3 5.8 Reduction in UK tax rate 0.8 2.8 Deferred tax recognised following US reorganisation 18.6 Total tax charge credit for the year 8.4 20.0 UK corporation tax is calculated at 26% 10 11: 28% of the estimated taxable profit for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
101 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 12 Tax continued Reconciliation of the effective tax rate: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Profit loss before tax 23.0 10.8 Tax using UK corporation tax rate of 26% 10 11: 28% 5.9 3.0 Effect of overseas tax rates 2.9 1.2 Overseas withholding tax 1.4 Unrecognised losses 0.5 0.7 Non-deductible expenses 0.3 1.5 Additional tax credit for research and development expenditure 0.6 0.6 Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets 1.6 20.2 Adjustment to tax rates 0.8 2.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.4 8.4 20.0 An analysis of amounts included in the consolidated statement of financial position in respect of income taxes is shown below: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Current assets UK corporation tax receivable 1.0 Current liabilities UK corporation tax payable 0.9 Overseas corporate tax payable 1.2 0.2 Overseas tax payable on royalties 0.1 2.1 0.3 Deferred taxation The movements in the deferred tax asset and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS12, Income Taxes during the year are as shown below.
The deferred tax asset and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balance net.
Deferred tax asset Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Deferred tax asset recognised at 1 April 0.9 0.6 Income statement credit 0.1 0.2 Exchange differences 0.1 Deferred tax asset recognised at 31 March 1.0 0.9 The deferred tax asset relates to short-term timing differences in Australia.
It has been recognised using a tax rate of 30% 10 11: 30% because the directors are of the opinion, based on recent and forecast trading, that the level of profits in Australia in the forthcoming years will lead to the realisation of this asset.
102 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 12 Tax continued Deferred tax liability The deferred tax liability of 35.2m 10 11: 30.7m represents the net position after taking into account the offset of deferred tax assets against deferred tax liabilities in each jurisdiction.
Deferred tax liabilities of 72.7m arise on intangible assets recognised at fair value on acquisitions and 0.4m on accelerated capital allowances.
Deferred tax assets relate to brought forward trading losses.
The table below summarises the gross and net position at each balance sheet date: DeferredDeferredNet deferred tax assets tax liabilities tax liability m m m At 1 April 2010 15.0 48.4 33.4 Acquisitions 19.1 39.5 20.4 Income statement credit debit 22.1 0.7 21.4 Exchange differences 0.8 2.5 1.7 At 1 April 2011 55.4 86.1 30.7 Adjustments re prior years 1.4 2.8 1.4 Income statement credit debit 16.2 9.9 6.3 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 Other 0.4 0.4 At 31 March 2012 37.9 73.1 35.2 In the prior year the Group recognised an additional deferred tax asset of 18.6m in relation to brought forward US tax losses.
In accordance with IAS12, this asset was set off against the Groups aggregate US deferred tax liability.
The asset was recognised following the completion of a tax-free reorganisation of certain of the Groups US taxable entities on 31 March 2011.
As a result of this, when performing its annual assessment of the probability of utilising such losses, management concluded that there was sufficient certainty over the future utilisation of the losses to recognise a deferred tax asset.
The 2012 Budget on 21 March 2012 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 22% by 2014.
A reduction in the rate from 26% to 25% effective from 1 April 2012 was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011, and a further reduction to 24% effective from 1 April 2012 was substantively enacted on 26 March 2012.
This will reduce the Groups future current tax charge accordingly.
The UK deferred tax asset and liability at 31 March 2012 has been calculated based on the rate of 24% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
It has not yet been possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of the announced further 2% rate reduction, although this will further reduce the Groups future current tax charge and reduce the Groups deferred tax asset and liability accordingly.
Unrecognised tax losses In addition to the losses on which a deferred tax asset has been recognised, the Group has additional tax losses and other timing differences in the UK and the US which arose as a result of the research and development incurred during the start up of the Groups activities.
These losses and timing differences are shown below.
The UK tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
The US tax losses can be carried forward for 20 years and the first year in which they expire is 2013.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of the losses and timing differences shown below as there is uncertainty as to whether such losses and timing differences can be used.
The total amount of tax losses and timing differences not recognised is shown below: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Tax losses 157.4 180.4 Deductible temporary differences 15.9 12.2 173.3 192.6 103 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 13 Earnings per share The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 Profit for the financial year m 14.6 9.2 Profit per share p Basic 4.5 3.4 Diluted 4.4 3.4 Number of shares m Weighted average number of shares basic 325.9 268.5 Effect of share options on issue 3.4 2.5 Weighted average number of shares diluted 329.3 271.0 The basic and diluted earnings per share from underlying earnings are based on the following data: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 Profit for the financial year m 14.6 9.2 Add back: 1 Fair value adjustment on acquired inventory 2.1 1.7 Fair value adjustment on royalty income 0.1 2 Amortisation of acquired intangible fixed assets 19.3 6.6 3 Acquisition and reorganisation costs including CVN write back 0.1 3.8 4 Reorganisation of US corporate structure 1.0 18.6 Underlying earnings 37.0 2.7 Underlying profit per share p Basic 11.4 1.0 Diluted 11.2 1.0 Adjustments to profit are shown after taking into account the tax effect of such adjustments on the results as shown in the consolidated income statement as follows: 1 No tax adjustment is required on the fair value of acquired inventory.
2 The release of deferred tax liability of 11.4m 10 11: 3.4m has been deducted from the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets of 30.7m 10 11: 10.0m as shown in the consolidated income statement.
3 In the year ended 31 March 2012, 0.1m of tax effect of reorganisation costs has been adjusted on the basis that the tax charge would have been 0.1m higher had it not been for deductions available against reorganisation costs paid in the financial year.
In the year ended 31 March 2011 a reorganisation cost of 3.8m in the consolidated income statement was not adjusted for tax as there was no expectation of the costs being deductible for tax in that financial year.
4 An adjustment was made for the deferred tax credit recognised as a result of the completion of a tax-free reorganisation in the prior year and subsequent review of such items in the current year.
104 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 14 Goodwill m At 1 April 2010 30.3 Additions 28.9 At 1 April 2011 59.2 Additions At 31 March 2012 59.2 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 April 2010, 1 April 2011 and 31 March 2012 Net book value at 31 March 2012 59.2 Net book value at 1 April 2011 59.2 Net book value at 1 April 2010 30.3 Additions of 28.9m in the year ended 31 March 2011 relate to the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc on 27January 2011 see note 34.
Impairment review goodwill and intangible assets An impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill and unamortised intangible assets was conducted as at 31 March 2012.
Goodwill arose on the acquisitions of Protherics PLC and Biocompatibles International plc see note 34.
This has been allocated across the Groups cash generating units, being its operating segments see note 4.
Goodwill recognised on acquisitions has been allocated across operating segments in proportion to the anticipated benefits of that goodwill on the operating segment, having regard for the assets and liabilities acquired.
The carrying value of goodwill has been allocated as relating to Specialty Pharmaceuticals, 16.4m 10 11: 16.4m, as relating to Interventional Medicine, 22.6m 10 11: 22.6m and in relation to Licensing & Biotechnology, 20.1m 10 11: 20.1m.
The impairment review required the estimation of the recoverable amount based on the value in use of the underlying cash generating unit.
Near-term projections are based on the Groups approved three-year plan.
Longer term projections through to the end of an assets estimated useful economic life are included due to the long-term nature of pharmaceutical product development and product life cycles.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were based include market share and gross margin for the marketed products, individual probability-adjusted cash flow models for all in-process research and development and an assessment of the net present value of future net royalty income for licensed patents.
Cash flow projections for all assets were included for a period equal to the estimated useful economic life of the assets.
No terminal values were applied.
All cash flows were discounted back to present value using a pre-tax discount rate of between 7% 10 11: 7% for net royalty income and 28% 10 11: 28% for in-process research and development, which takes into account the individual risk characteristics of each particular asset and related income stream.
For developed technology, the Group uses its approved three-year plan for its near-term sales projections, adjusting for expected changes in future conditions, including those anticipated as a result of our knowledge of competitor activity and our assessment of future changes in the pharmaceutical industry for long-term projections.
For contractual relationships, the Group uses the same basic methodology as for developed technology but limits the projection period to the appropriate useful economic life of the contractual relationship.
105 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 14 Goodwill continued For in-process research and development the key assumptions are the chance of product launch, market share and overall market size.
Industry average statistics are used to assess the chance of product launch, taking into account the stage of development of the asset, the therapeutic area targeted and any known specific characteristics of the asset.
Market share and overall market size are assessed by reference to independent industry market reports.
In assessing whether there has been an impairment, the net present value of future cash flows is compared to the carrying value in the accounts.
All other amortisation and impairment is shown within Selling, general and administrative expenses in Operating expenses.
106 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 15 Intangible assets continued Developed technology Developed technology relates to both the antidote assets acquired in Protherics PLC, comprising principally of the rights to CroFab and DigiFab, and the bead assets acquired in Biocompatibles International plc, comprising principally of the rights to the DC Bead and LC Bead.
The carrying value of individually significant assets within developed technology is: Remaining amortisation 31 March 31 March period at 2012 2011 31 March m m 2012 CroFab 72.8 75.9 21.7 years DigiFab 23.5 24.5 21.7 years DC Bead and LC Bead 98.3 105.4 13.8 years Contractual relationships Contractual relationships relates to contracts acquired in Protherics PLC and Biocompatibles International plc.
The carrying value and remaining amortisation period of individually significant contracts is: Remaining amortisation 31 March 31 March period at 2012 2011 31 March m m 2012 Licence agreement with AstraZeneca for AZD9773 CytoFab 22.9 24.9 10.7 years Purchase of contractual rights On 6 July 2011 BTG signed an agreement with Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation to acquire the US commercial rights for product candidate uridine triacetate.
BTG paid Wellstat an upfront fee of $7.5m and will make milestone payments upon NDA acceptance and approval and inventory purchase payments based on manufacturing costs and a significant percentage of net sales.
The purchase price was capitalised at 6 July 2011 and will be amortised over the 10 year period starting from marketing approval, representing the length of the exclusive period and point at which BTG will begin to generate economic returns from the product.
On 27 August 2010 BTG signed an agreement with Nycomed US Inc. concerning the accelerated transition to BTG on 1 October 2010 of marketing rights to CroFab and DigiFab.
Under the terms of the agreement, BTG purchased the exclusive rights to sell the products for which a consideration of 9.7m was paid in October 2010.
The purchase price was capitalised and amortised over the six-month period ending 31 March 2011 representing the length of the exclusive period.
Impairments Impairment charges have been made within the acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs column against two acquired intangible assets in the period: On 13 May 2011 the Group announced that they had been informed by AstraZeneca that AstraZeneca had terminated the development and option agreement relating to CM-3, a GLP-1 analogue being developed by BTGs CellMed subsidiary for use in type 2 diabetes and other indications.
The carrying value of the intangible asset associated with the GLP-1 asset was 8.8m which has been fully impaired in the year and is included within in-process research and development.
A further 3.6m impairment charge has been made in the period against the Groups carrying value of the Novabel intangible asset and is included within developed technologies.
The product has been withdrawn from the market since June 2010 and Merz has terminated the supply agreement with the Group.
107 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 16 Property, plant and equipment Plant and machinery, Assets in the Leasehold Freehold land furniture and course of improvements and buildings equipment construction Total m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 April 2010 2.4 1.2 12.8 16.4 Additions 0.1 9.3 1.7 0.1 11.2 Acquired with Biocompatibles 0.3 1.2 3.1 4.6 Transfers 1.6 1.6 Disposals 0.7 0.7 Currency movements 0.8 0.3 0.1 1.2 At 1 April 2011 1.2 12.9 15.3 3.3 32.7 Additions 0.2 2.0 1.6 3.8 Transfers 0.2 0.2 0.4 Disposals 0.1 1.6 0.2 1.9 Currency movements 0.1 0.1 At 31 March 2012 1.3 13.2 15.9 4.2 34.6 Depreciation At 1 April 2010 0.7 0.3 4.8 5.8 Provided during the year 0.2 0.4 1.8 2.4 Transfers 0.7 0.7 Disposals 0.7 0.7 Currency movements 0.1 0.3 0.4 At 1 April 2011 0.2 1.5 6.2 7.9 Provided during the year 0.2 0.6 2.4 3.2 Impairments 3.0 3.0 Disposals 0.1 1.5 1.6 Currency movements 0.1 0.1 At 31 March 2012 0.3 2.1 10.2 12.6 Net book value at 31 March 2012 1.0 11.1 5.7 4.2 22.0 Net book value at 1 April 2011 1.0 11.4 9.1 3.3 24.8 Net book value at 1 April 2010 1.7 0.9 8.0 10.6 The net book value of plant and machinery and furniture, fixtures and equipment includes 0.5m 10 11: 1.8m in respect of assets held under finance lease and hire purchase agreements.
Depreciation for the year on those assets was 0.2m 10 11: 0.3m.
An impairment charge of 3.0m has been made against tangible fixed assets that would have been used exclusively for production of Novabel.
This adjustment has not been reflected in acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs column.
108 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 17 Other investments 2012 2011 m m At 1 April 2.7 3.7 Additions 0.5 0.5 Fair value movements 0.1 Impairment charge 0.2 1.5 Currency movements 0.1 At 31 March 3.0 2.7 Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale that are recorded at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of unlisted investments is estimated to be the valuation following the latest round of equity funding.
In the absence of specific market data the Group determines that cost is equal to fair value.
Where the fair value of an available-for-sale asset is impaired, the impairment charge is recognised in the income statement, together with any amounts recycled from the fair value reserve see note 21.
These impairments initially arise from the prolonged or significant decline in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any further decline in fair value is immediately taken to the income statement.
In the prior year 0.1m was recycled from the fair value reserve on the impairment of investments.
18 Inventories 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Raw materials and consumables 6.6 4.4 Work in progress 12.4 11.1 Finished goods 2.8 4.5 21.8 20.0 During the period a fair value adjustment of 2.1m 10 11: 1.7m was recognised through cost of sales see note 34 leaving nil 10 11: 2.1m of fair value uplift recognised on the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc remaining.
Inventory to the value of 1.5m 10 11: nil was written off through cost of sales.
19 Trade and other receivables 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Due within one year Revenues receivable, net of provisions 20.4 15.8 Other debtors 3.6 4.5 Prepayments and accrued income 16.1 12.4 40.1 32.7 109 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 19 Trade and other receivables continued Managing credit risk: Revenues receivable, net of provisions represents accrued royalty income for the period to 31 March 2012 and certain other amounts receivable under licence agreements.
The ageing of these amounts was as follows: 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Gross Provision Gross Provision m m m m Not past due 19.8 14.3 030 days 0.5 0.4 3190 days 0.1 90 days 0.8 0.8 1.8 0.7 Total 21.2 0.8 16.5 0.7 Provisions for bad debts of 0.8m 31 March 2011: 0.7m have been made to write down the value of doubtful receivables to estimated recoverable amounts.
The charge to income for the year to 31 March 2012 in respect of provisions for bad debts was 0.5m 10 11: nil.
20 Cash and cash equivalents 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Bank balances 106.9 63.7 Cash and cash equivalents in statement of cash flows 106.9 63.7 Cash deposits with a maturity of greater than three months are classified as held to maturity financial assets.
Held to maturity financial assets 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Bank deposits 5.0 10.2 The effective interest rate on held to maturity financial assets was 3.5% 31 March 2011: 2.4% and these deposits had an average maturity of ten months.
110 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 21 Equity Other reserves are analysed as follows: Translation Fair value Total other reserve reservereserves m m m At 1 April 2010 1.1 0.2 0.9 Total recognised income and expense 2.7 0.1 2.8 At 1 April 2011 3.8 0.1 3.7 Total recognised income and expense 0.3 0.3 At 31 March 2012 4.1 0.1 4.0 The merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006.
The balance on the merger reserve has arisen through the acquisitions of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011 see note 34 and Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008 and includes directly attributable costs of issuing shares of 1.1m relating to the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc.
The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company is shown below: Ordinary shares of 10p each 2012 2011 Number m Number m At 1 April 326,725,906 32.7 257,637,576 25.8 Issued for cash 566,959 365,086 Issued in consideration of Biocompatibles acquisition note 34 68,723,244 6.9 At 31 March 327,292,865 32.7 326,725,906 32.7 The share issued in the current and prior year were as a result of the acquisition of the Biocompatibles Group and the exercise of share awards.
Share awards Details of outstanding share awards are set out in note 26.
111 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 22 Trade and other payables 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Amounts falling due within one year Trade payables 6.0 8.2 Accruals and deferred income 45.9 38.8 Other creditors 3.5 3.2 55.4 50.2 Amounts falling due after more than one year Accruals and deferred income 4.7 5.4 Contingent value note see note 34 1.1 Other creditors 0.3 0.6 5.0 7.1 23 Derivative financial instruments 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Contracts with positive fair values: Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.5 2.0 Derivative instrument assets 0.5 2.0 The Group utilises foreign currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows.
At 31 March 2012 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$25m in the period to September 2012 at rates in the range 1:US$1.541:US$1.60.
The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was marked-to-market at 31 March 2012 at 0.5m.
At 31 March 2012 the Group had a forward contract to buy AU$1m in April 2012 at a rate of 1:AU$1.52.
The fair value of this forward contract was marked-to-market at 31 March 2012 at nil.
At 31 March 2011 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$49m in the period to March 2012 at rates in the range 1:US$1.441:US$1.60 and 1m in the period to August 2011 at rates in the range of 1:1.19821:1.1987.
The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was marked-to-market at 31 March 2011 at 2.0m.
The fair value loss for the year associated with these forward contracts was included within Financial expense 10 11: gain included within Financial income.
A 5% weakening of the US$ as at 31 March 2012, all other variables being unchanged, would result in an additional 0.8m gain within Financial income in the income statement and a fair value asset increase of 1.3m within Derivative instruments within current assets.
A 5% strengthening of the US$ would result in a 0.8m reduction within Financial income and a decrease in Derivative instruments to nil within current assets with the Group recognising a current liability of 0.3m within Derivative instruments.
112 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 24 Borrowings 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Amounts falling due after more than one year 2.9 Following the withdrawal of the Novabel product from the market, termination of the supply agreement with Merz and subsequent impairments recognised within tangible and intangible assets, the Group has derecognised a 2.8m loan from Merz as there is no obligation for this to be repaid.
This has been recognised within Financial income in the consolidated income statement but not in the acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs column.
The Group had no undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 March 2012 31 March 2011: nil.
25 Retirement benefit plans Defined benefit plan For eligible UK employees the Group operates a funded pension plan providing benefits based on final pensionable emoluments.
The plan was closed to new entrants as of 1 June 2004.
The assets of the plan are held in a separate trustee administered fund.
The plan has a history of granting increases to pensions in line with price inflation, and these increases are reflected in the measurement of the obligation.
The results of the formal valuation of the plan as at 31 March 2010 were updated to the accounting date by an independent qualified actuary in accordance with IAS19.
In July 2010, the government announced its intention that future statutory minimum pension indexation would be measured by the Consumer Prices Index, rather than the Retail Prices Index RPI.
The Group continues to value its pension fund liability on the basis of RPI.
The expected rate of return on assets for the financial year ending 31 March 2012 was 5.4% pa 10 11: 5.6% pa.
This rate is derived by taking the weighted average of the long-term expected rate of return on each of the asset classes that the plan was invested in at 31st March 2011, based on the plans long-term investment strategy at that date.
The estimated amount of total employer contributions expected to be paid to the plan during 2012 13 is 4.9m 2011 12 actual: 5.2m.
The estimate is based on the current schedule of contributions agreed as part of the formal valuation of the plan as at 31 March 2010.
The following table sets out the key IAS19 assumptions used for the plan: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 2010 Retail price inflation 3.5% p. a.
Pension increases in deferment RPI inflation 3.5% p. a.
Pension increases in payment RPI inflation 3.5% p. a.
Pension increases in payment inflation capped at 2.5% 2.3% p. a.
Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 60 at the accounting date 87.3 87.3 88.2 Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 40 at the accounting date 88.9 88.8 90.4 113 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25 Retirement benefit plans continued The amount included in the statement of financial position arising from the Groups obligations in respect of the plan is as follows: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 2010 m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 108.6 96.8 98.3 Fair value of scheme assets 108.5 94.8 89.1 Net liability recognised in the statement of financial position 0.1 2.0 9.2 This amount is presented in the statement of financial position within non-current liabilities.
The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the plan are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Employers part of current service cost 0.4 0.4 Interest cost 5.2 5.3 Expected return on plan assets 5.2 5.0 Total expense included in income statement 0.4 0.7 The expense has been included in Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses.
The allocation of the plans assets is as follows: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 2010 % %% Equity instruments 15 17 19 Diversified growth funds 14 14 14 Debt instruments 70 68 66 Cash net current assets 1 11 100 100 100 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 April 96.8 98.3 Employer part of current service cost 0.4 0.4 Interest cost 5.2 5.3 Contributions from plan members 0.1 0.1 Actuarial loss gain on scheme liabilities 10.6 3.0 Benefits paid 4.5 4.3 Defined benefit obligation at 31 March 108.6 96.8 114 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 25 Retirement benefit plans continued Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Fair value of plan assets at 1 April 94.8 89.1 Expected return on plan assets 5.2 5.0 Actuarial gains on scheme assets 7.7 0.9 Contributions by the employer 5.2 4.0 Contributions by plan members 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 4.5 4.3 Fair value of plan assets at 31 March 108.5 94.8 The actual return on the plans assets over the year was 12.9m 10 11: 5.9m.
The amount recognised outside profit and loss in other comprehensive income for 2012 is a loss of 2.9m 10 11: gain of 3.9m.
The cumulative amount recognised outside profit and loss as at 31 March 2012 is a loss of 10.7m 10 11: loss of 7.8m The history of experience adjustment is as follows: 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 108.6 96.8 98.3 74.9 81.8 Fair value of plan assets 108.5 94.8 89.1 74.9 76.9 Deficit in the scheme 0.1 2.0 9.2 4.9 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Experience adjustments on plan assets Amount of gain loss m 7.7 0.9 10.4 7.4 0.4 Percentage of plan assets % 7 1 12 10 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities Amount of loss gain m 1.5 3.4 2.5 6.3 Percentage of the present value of plan liabilities % 1 4 3 8 The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the plan liabilities are: Increase in liabilities 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 Change in assumption m m Discount rate Decrease of 0.1% 1.8 1.7 Defined contribution plans The Group offers defined contribution pension plans for its UK, US, European and Australian employees.
The total income statement charge in relation to these plans was 1.7m 10 11: 1.3m.
The Groups defined contribution plans are operated by external providers.
The only obligation of the Group with respect to these plans is to make the specified contributions.
115 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 Share-based payments Share options The Group makes awards under an equity-settled share option plan that entitles employees to purchase shares in the Company.
In accordance with the rules of the plan, options are granted at the market price of the shares on the date of grant with a vesting period of generally three years.
They may only be exercised upon the attainment of certain performance criteria.
If the performance criteria are not met by the date specified at the time of grant, the options do not vest and will lapse.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver.
In this case their options remain exercisable for a limited period of time.
For further details of current awards, see the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 75.
Option pricing For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the share-based compensation charge, a binomial lattice option pricing model has been used.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 Risk-free interest rate 0.8% to 2.5% 1.4% to 5.8% Dividend yield Nil Nil Volatility 27% to 41% 41% to 73% Expected lives of options and awards granted under: Share option plan 6 years 5 years Sharesave plan 3.25 years 3.25 years Stock purchase plan 2.13 years 2.25 years Restricted share awards n a 2 to 3 years Performance share plan 2 to 3 years 2 to 3 years Deferred share bonus plan 3 years 3 years Weighted average fair value for share option plan grants in the year 119.3p 119.8p Weighted average fair value for sharesave grants in the year 114.8p 86.6p Weighted average fair value for stock purchase plan grants in the year 69.4p 65.6p Weighted average fair value for performance share awards in the year 264.6p 119.8p Weighted average fair value for deferred share bonus awards in the year 298.9p 181.4p The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options, restricted or performance shares, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly-available information.
Share options are granted under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition.
Service and non-market conditions are not taken into account in calculating the fair value measurement of the services received.
Performance shares are awarded under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition.
116 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 26 Share-based payments continued Awards of share options and performance share awards made in 2009 and later years have a market condition based on a TSR measure using the FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts, companies in the financial services sector banks, life and non-life insurance, equity and non-equity investment trusts, financial services, real estate investment and services, and real estate investment trusts etc.
and companies in the consumer discretionary sector general retailers, media, travel and leisure, and leisure goods.
The number of shares to vest depends on the relative performance of BTGs share price against the index.
Earlier share options and performance shares used the FTSE SmallCap excluding Investment Trusts index.
If the Companys share price at least matched the performance of the relevant index over the vesting period, the market-based performance condition was considered to have been achieved.
The fair value of an award of shares under the share option and performance share plans have been adjusted to take into account this market-based performance condition using a pricing model based on expectations about volatility and the correlation of share price returns in the relevant index and which incorporates into the valuation the interdependency between share price and index performance.
This adjustment increases the fair value relative to the share price at the date of grant.
See the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 75 for further information.
Restricted shares were awarded to certain management employees under a service condition and a non-market performance condition.
There were no market conditions related to the restricted share awards.
Details of options and awards under the Groups share plans are shown in the tables below.
2012 2011 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise share options price share options price 000 p 000 p Share options Outstanding at 1 April 927 175.8 597 157.3 Granted during year 550 298.9 358 201.3 Lapsed during year 2 776.5 6 106.3 Exercised during year 48 96.6 22 106.3 Outstanding at 31 March 1,427 225.2 927 175.8 Exercisable at 31 March 139 120.9 190 120.9 Sharesave plan Outstanding at 1 April 309 144.9 301 134.9 Granted during year 237 219.5 90 146.7 Lapsed during year 28 137.9 26 145.6 Exercised during year 43 134.0 56 94.2 Outstanding at 31 March 475 183.5 309 144.9 Exercisable at 31 March Stock purchase plan Outstanding at 1 April 49 166.0 30 162.2 Granted during year 43 243.1 30 173.2 Lapsed during year 6 202.2 11 175.1 Exercised during year 20 156.4 Outstanding at 31 March 66 216.4 49 166.0 Exercisable at 31 March 117 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 Share-based payments continued Options outstanding at 31 March 2012 Weighted Latest exercise exercise date Number price year ended 000 p 31 March Share options granted in year ended 31 March 2005 85 106.3 2015 2007 55 143.5 2017 2010 379 179.3 2020 2011 358 201.3 2021 2012 550 298.9 2022 1,427 Sharesave plan options granted in year ended 31 March 2010 160 146.7 2013 2011 81 146.7 2014 2012 234 219.5 2015 475 Stock purchase plan options granted in year ended 31 March 2011 25 173.2 2013 2012 41 243.1 2014 66 Restricted share awards The Company established a restricted share scheme for the purpose of making awards to selected members of senior management below Board level.
The vesting period is either two or three years.
Awards are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver: in which case their award is released following their departure.
For further details see the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 75.
118 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 26 Share-based payments continued Movement in the number of restricted shares awarded is as follows.
2012 2011 Number of Number of share awards share awards 000 000 Outstanding at 1 April 200 Exercised during year 183 Lapsed during year 17 Outstanding at 31 March Exercisable at 31 March Performance share awards Following approval of the Performance Share Plan by shareholders at the 2006 AGM, the Company has made awards to the executive directors and other employees with a vesting period of three years.
Awards are forfeited if the director or other employee leaves the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver: in which case their award is released following their departure.
If the Remuneration Committee decide that a departing beneficiary of an award is a good leaver, so their award may be released early, the award will only be released subject to the achievement of the performance conditions set out at the time of the granting of the award and may be subject to proration for time, at the discretion of the Committee.
Movement in the number of performance share awards is as follows.
2012 2011 Number of Number of share awards share awards 000 000 Outstanding at 1 April 2,621 1,971 Granted during year 1,321 945 Lapsed during year 280 11 Exercised during year 554 284 Outstanding at 31 March 3,108 2,621 Exercisable at 31 March Deferred share bonus plan The Company established a deferred share bonus plan.
The executive directors, members of the Leadership Team and certain other senior staff have part of their bonus awarded in shares.
The shares will vest on the third anniversary of the grant date.
Awards are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver: in which case their award is released following their departure, though it may be prorated for time at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
119 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 Share-based payments continued Movement in the number of deferred bonus shares awarded is as follows.
2012 2011 Number of Number of share awards share awards 000 000 Outstanding at 1 April 591 380 Granted during year 195 378 Lapsed during year 19 Exercised during year 85 167 Outstanding at 31 March 682 591 Exercisable at 31 March The Biocompatibles Group had a number of share schemes prior to the date of acquisition by the Company.
With the exception of the Share Incentive Plan SIP, all share schemes ceased just prior to that date and share awards under the various schemes vested and or exercised to the extent to which performance conditions had been achieved.
No grants or awards remained outstanding at the date of acquisition.
Shares invested in the SIP were exchanged for BTG shares in the same ratio as other shareholders received in the acquisition: 1.6733 BTG shares for each Biocompatibles share plus 10p cash.
While no further contributions may be invested in the SIP post the date of acquisition, shares already held in the SIP may remain until the date of closure of the Plan in 2016.
As at 31 March 2012, 353,456 ordinary shares in BTG plc, issued and subscribed for by the Biocompatibles International plc Share Incentive Plan Trust, had not vested unconditionally.
27 BTG Employee Share Trust The Group includes an employee share trust, the BTG Employee Share Trust the Trust, which was established in Guernsey in 1992.
It holds shares for the general benefit of all employees who may eventually become legally entitled to them.
The Trust may distribute these shares to employees of the Group on the recommendation of the Company.
These distributions may be as a result of awards under the Restricted Share Scheme, the Deferred Share Bonus Plan or the recently set up Senior Management Performance Share Plan.
At 31 March 2012 the Trust has 499,184 shares set aside under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
120 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 28 Provisions 2012 2011 Leases Reorganisation Total Leases Reorganisation Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2.0 1.0 3.0 1.1 0.7 1.8 Acquired with Biocompatibles 1.3 1.3 Provisions utilised during year 0.3 0.9 1.2 0.4 0.9 1.3 Provisions made during year 0.1 0.1 1.2 1.2 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.1 At 31 March 1.7 0.1 1.8 2.0 1.0 3.0 Balance due within one year 0.7 0.1 0.8 0.8 1.0 1.8 Balance due after more than one year 1.0 1.0 1.2 1.2 1.7 0.1 1.8 2.0 1.0 3.0 Lease provisions relate to onerous leases and represent the net present value of future obligations and where relevant, not covered by income from tenants see 2 p. The provision for reorganisation costs arose as a result of the Groups rationalisation activities following the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011 note 34 and Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008.
The provision principally comprises redundancy and other site closure costs.
29 Financial risk management objectives and policies Overview The Group has exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks from its use of financial instruments.
This note sets out the Groups key policies and processes for managing these risks.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a licensee fails to meet its contractual obligations or a customer fails to pay for goods and services received.
The Groups primary objective with respect to credit risk is to minimise the risk of default by licensees or customers.
A substantial element of the Groups revenue is derived from royalties which are only payable if a licensee is generating income from sales of licensed products.
In such instances the Groups exposure to credit risk is considered to be inherently relatively low, although is influenced by the unique characteristics of individual licensees.
The Groups policy is to provide against bad debts on a specific licence by licence basis.
Following the transition from a distribution agreement to direct sales during the prior year, the majority of the marketed product revenues are currently generated from sales to several key wholesalers in the U. S. Management maintains regular communication with the customers and monitors both sales to and payments from customers to minimise the credit risk exposure.
121 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group has limited debt facilities in the form of borrowings see note 24 and its obligations for assets held under finance leases are immaterial.
The Group has substantial cash balances to fund its operations.
The Groups policy is to place surplus cash resources on shortand medium-term fixed interest deposits, to the extent that cash flow can be reasonably predicted.
Term deposits are denominated in UK sterling with institutions rated as A or higher by both Moodys and Standard & Poors.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings in financial instruments.
The Group has little exposure to interest rate risk other than that returns on short-term fixed interest deposits will vary with movements in underlying bank interest rates.
The Groups principal market risk exposure is to movements in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency risk The Group has several overseas subsidiary undertakings, the revenues and the expenses of which are denominated in local currencies being US dollars, Euros and Australian dollars.
As a result the Groups sterling income statement, statement of financial position and cash flows may be affected by movements in sterling exchange rates with these currencies.
The Groups primary objective with respect to managing foreign exchange risk is to provide certainty over the value of future cash flows.
A significant element of the Groups revenue is denominated in US dollars with the remainder split between Sterling, Euros, Yen and other currencies.
The majority of the Groups operating expenses are in sterling along with smaller elements in US dollars and Australian dollars.
Where possible, anticipated foreign currency operating expenses are matched to foreign currency revenues.
The excess exposure over and above this natural hedge, to the extent that cash flows are predictable, is managed using forward contracts see note 23.
Sensitivity analysis A 5% weakening of the US$ at 31 March 2012 would have resulted in the following decreases increases in equity and profit or loss: 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Profit or loss 2.7 5.7 Equity 3.5 0.9 122 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Interest rate risk The Group seeks to mitigate partially against increased interest rates while maintaining a degree of flexibility to benefit from decreasing rates of interest by holding a mix of fixed and floating rate financial liabilities.
The Group seeks to maximise the amount of interest income from its cash balances by using a variety of short-term, fixed high-interest deposit and money-market accounts.
The Group does not consider the impact of interest rate risk to be material to its results or operations and accordingly no sensitivity analysis is shown.
Market price risk It is, on occasion, deemed appropriate to take equity stakes in early-stage companies utilising the Groups technology as part of the overall licensing arrangement and small loans may be granted to these companies to further technology development.
These investments will be realised at an appropriate time in the development cycle.
Regular reports are made to the Board on the status of investments.
These investments form part of the Groups overall technology portfolio and do not materially affect liquidity.
Capital management The Group defines the capital that it manages as the Groups total equity.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are: To safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern: To provide an adequate return to investors based on the level of risk undertaken: To have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver future benefits for inventive sources and returns to investors: and To maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.
The Group believes it has sufficient ongoing cash and cash equivalents to meet its stated capital management objectives.
The Groups capital and equity ratio are shown in the table below.
31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Total equity capital and reserves attributable to BTG shareholders 406.2 392.3 Total assets 505.8 488.5 Equity ratio 80.3% 80.3% The Group is not subject to regulatory capital adequacy requirements as known in the financial services industry.
Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments comprise cash, shortand medium-term deposits, foreign currency forward contracts, contingent value notes, contingent considerations and various items such as trade debtors and creditors which arise directly from operations.
In addition, a number of debt and equity investments, both quoted and unquoted, are held in technology-based companies along with borrowings including obligations under finance leases.
123 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Fair values The fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying values shown in the statement of financial position, are as follows: Forward Total Designated contracts at Available Amortised carrying Fair at fair value fair value for sale cost value value m m m m m m 31 March 2011 Cash and cash equivalents 63.7 63.7 63.7 Held to maturity financial assets 10.2 10.2 10.2 Forward contracts 2.0 2.0 2.0 Other investments 2.7 2.7 2.7 Trade and other receivables 0.1 32.6 32.7 32.7 Trade and other payables 1.1 55.6 56.7 56.7 Borrowings 2.9 2.9 2.9 31 March 2012 Cash and cash equivalents 106.9 106.9 106.9 Held to maturity financial assets 5.0 5.0 5.0 Forward contracts 0.5 0.5 0.5 Other investments 3.0 3.0 3.0 Trade and other receivables 0.1 40.0 40.1 40.1 Trade and other payables 0.7 59.7 60.4 60.4 The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Level 2 observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total m m m m At 31 March 2011 Financial assets recognised at fair value Investments 2.7 2.7 Forward contracts 2.0 2.0 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Contingent value notes 1.1 1.1 At 31 March 2012 Financial assets recognised at fair value Investments 3.0 3.0 Forward contracts 0.5 0.5 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Fair value of other contingent consideration 0.7 0.7 124 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Level 2 financial assets and liabilities represent forward foreign exchange contracts to sell US$ and Euros which are markedto-market at each balance sheet date and other investments held at fair value as disclosed in note 17.
Level 3 financial liabilities in the current year represent the contingent consideration payable upon the purchase of the US commercial rights of product candidate uridine triacetate representing contingent milestone payments upon NDA acceptance and approval of the product candidate.
In the prior year level 3 represented the contingent loan note upon acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc see note 34.
Profits for the year related to these liabilities of 1.1m have been recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Contractual maturity analysis of financial assets 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m Forward foreign exchange contracts that mature within: 03 months 0.1 0.8 36 months 0.4 0.4 612 months 0.8 0.5 2.0 Net gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities Foreign exchange gains of 2.6m 10 11: losses of 2.0m were recognised within Operating profit in relation to settlement of trade receivables and payables.
The Group recognised a fair value loss of 1.5m 10 11: gain of 2.7m relating to forward foreign exchange contracts within Financial expense 10 11: Financial income.
Fair value gains of nil 10 11: 0.1m were recycled from the fair value reserve within equity in relation to investments impaired during the prior year.
Estimation of fair values The following summarises the methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
125 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Other investments These comprise both listed and unlisted investments, available-for-sale see note 17.
The figure recorded in the statement of financial position is the best estimate of fair value.
Borrowings and finance leases The fair values of such balances are estimated by discounting the future cash flows at the market rate.
Trade receivables, trade payables and cash and cash equivalents Trade payables and receivables have a remaining life of less than one year so their value recorded in the statement of financial position is considered to be a fair approximation of fair value.
The contingent value notes and other contingent considerations are fair valued at each reporting period.
30 Operating leases Total non-cancellable operating lease rentals are due in the following periods: 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Vehicles, plant Vehicles, plant Property and equipment Property and equipment m m m m Within one year 1.7 1.7 Between two and five years 4.3 5.3 Greater than five years 0.7 1.1 6.7 8.1 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable for certain of its office properties, plant and equipment under noncancellable operating lease agreements.
The Group leases a number of offices and facilities in the UK, the US, Germany, and Australia.
These leases have terms of up to seven years.
The leases contain options to extend for further periods.
In the event of renewal, the lease contracts contain market review clauses.
None of the property leases provide the Group with an option to purchase the leased asset at the expiry of the lease period.
126 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 31 Other financial commitments The Group has entered into agreements with a number of early-stage companies and venture capital funds.
At 31 March 2012 the Group is committed to invest 0.2m under these agreements 10 11: 0.4m.
As with any business whose core assets are intellectual property, the Group will from time-to-time resort to litigation or threats of litigation, or other legal processes, to defend its rights.
Litigation costs are regarded as a cost of doing business and will vary from year to year.
In the current year the Group incurred 2.1m in litigation costs 10 11: 4.0m.
The Company has entered into an agreement to guarantee payments under the lease of a US subsidiary undertaking.
The Company has provided a Guarantee to certain subsidiary undertakings in respect of the BTG Pension Plan up to a maximum amount equal to the lowest non-negative amount which, when added to the assets of the Plan, would result in the plan being at least 105% funded on the date on which any liability arose, calculated on the basis set out in section 179 of the Pensions Act 2004, were a valuation to be conducted as at that date.
The Company has also provided a Guarantee to the same subsidiary undertakings for a maximum amount of 12.7m, being the deficit repair contributions agreed with the Trustees of the Plan following the finalisation of the last actuarial valuation.
The Guarantee reduces as payments are made and expires on 31 January 2013.
32 Related parties Identity of related parties The Group has a related-party relationship with its subsidiary undertakings see note 2 b, its associates see note 2 b and its directors.
During the year the Group invested a further 0.5m in its investments see note 17.
No dividends were received from associates in the years ended 31 March 2012 or 2011.
In relation to the related party relationship identified on page 51 concerning Giles Kerr, payments made by BTG to Oxford University and Isis Innovations Ltd under the relevant licence agreements were 0.8m during the year ended 31 March 2012.
There are no amounts still outstanding and payable by BTG under these agreements as at 31 March 2012.
127 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 Group entities The significant subsidiary undertakings of BTG plc at 31 March 2012 are all wholly owned, incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales, unless shown otherwise.
All subsidiary undertakings operate in their country of incorporation and are consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
Class of capital Principal activity 1 BTG International Holdings Ltd Ordinary Investment in IPR management companies 1 Provensis Ltd Ordinary Development and commercialisation of IPR BTG International Ltd Ordinary Development, management and commercialisation of IPR BTG Employee Share Schemes Ltd Ordinary Trustee company Guernsey BTG Investment Holdings Ltd Ordinary Investment in IPR management companies British Technology Group Ordinary Development, management and Inter-Corporate Licensing Ltd commercialisation of IPR BTG Management Services Ltd Ordinary Investment and management of 1 formerly Protherics Limited group companies Protherics Medicines Development Ltd Ordinary Development, management and commercialisation of IPR BTG International Inc. Common stock Research, development, manufacture formerly Protherics Inc. and sale of pharmaceutical products Delaware, USA and potential drugs Enact Pharma Ltd Ordinary Development, management and commercialisation of IPR Protherics UK Ltd Ordinary Research, development, manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products and potential drugs BTG Australasia Pty Ltd Ordinary Manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical Australia products and potential drugs Protherics Utah Inc. Common stock Research, development, manufacture Tennessee, USA and sale of pharmaceutical products and potential drugs Protherics Salt Lake City Inc. Common stock Development, management and Utah, USA commercialisation of IPR 1 Biocompatibles International Ltd Ordinary Investment and management of group companies Biocompatibles UK Ltd Ordinary Commercialisation of bead products Biopolymerix Inc. Common stock Research and development Delaware, USA Biocompatibles, Inc. Common stock Commercialisation of brachytherapy products Delaware, USA CellMed AG No par value shares Research and development Germany 1 Indicates direct subsidiary of BTG plc.
128 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials 34 Acquisition of business operations On 27 January 2011, the Company acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Biocompatibles International plc subsequently re-registered as Biocompatibles International Ltd, a listed UK company.
Biocompatibles International Ltd was the parent company of the Biocompatibles Group, a leading international medical technology company in the field of drug device combination products.
This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting.
The acquisition was settled by the issuance of 68,723,244 new BTG plc ordinary shares of 10p each plus either 10p in cash for each Biocompatibles share or a contingent value note.
Equity settled consideration The fair value of equity settled consideration was 167.7m, based on the share price of 2.44 in existence at the time of the acquisition.
Cash consideration Shareholders owning 30,349,200 Biocompatibles shares 73.9% of all Biocompatibles shares acquired opted to receive 10p in cash per share, resulting in a cash payment of 3.0m.
Contingent value note CVN As an alternative to 10p cash consideration, Biocompatibles shareholders could elect to receive an entitlement to a contingent right to payment of the Sterling equivalent of 0.56 per Biocompatibles share in cash by participating in the value that may potentially be achieved from part of Biocompatibles programme to develop the GLP-1 Compound which it has partnered with AstraZeneca.
Shareholders owning 10,722,465 Biocompatibles shares 26.1% of all Biocompatibles shares acquired opted to receive the CVN.
The CVN would be paid in full if, prior to 31 December 2012, either: AstraZeneca exercises an option to license the GLP-1 compound on agreed terms: or BTG, otherwise than on the agreed terms of the option, enters into any other licence, sale or other disposal or other arrangement with similar effect with AstraZeneca with respect to the rights of the GLP-1 compound.
The liability would be paid in full or not at all.
The fair value of each CVN was assessed at acquisition date as being 10p per Biocompatibles share, based on probability adjusted net present value calculations of AstraZeneca exercising its option to license the GLP-1 compound.
This fair value was also supported by the alternative offer to shareholders of 10p in cash.
The fair value of the CVN as at 31 March 2011 is shown in note 22 to the accounts at 1.1m.
129 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 34 Acquisition of business operations continued Net assets acquired Details of the net assets of acquired arising from the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc are set out in the table below: Fair value Book value adjustment Fair value m m m Non-current assets: Intangible assets 9.5 127.3 136.8 Goodwill 2.8 2.8 Property, plant and equipment 4.6 4.6 Current assets: Inventories 0.9 3.8 4.7 Trade and other receivables 6.0 6.0 Cash and cash equivalents 17.4 17.4 Held to maturity financial assets 10.2 10.2 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 3.7 3.7 Deferred income 9.3 0.3 9.0 Non-current liabilities: Trade and other payables 0.9 0.9 Borrowings 2.8 2.8 Deferred tax liabilities 1.1 19.3 20.4 Total assets acquired 33.6 109.3 142.9 Goodwill 28.9 Total consideration 171.8 Settled by equity 167.7 Contingent consideration 1.1 Cash paid 3.0 Cash and cash equivalents included in undertaking acquired 17.4 Cash consideration paid 3.0 Net cash inflow per cash flow statement 14.4 1 Directly attributable costs settled 3.6 Net cash inflow arising on acquisition 10.8 1 Total costs relating to the acquisition were 4.1m, of which 3.6m had been paid by 31 March 2011.
The remainder was settled in April 2011.
Of the total costs of 4.1m, 3.0m was included in Acquisition and reorganisation costs in the consolidated income statement in the year ended 31 March 2011 see note 6 and 1.1m was debited to the merger reserve in the year ended 31 March 2011 see note 21.
The goodwill arising on acquisition resulted from assets which could not be recognised separately including early-stage pipeline products and a highly skilled workforce.
The fair value adjustments were considered final.
The main elements of the significant fair value adjustments are described below: Intangible assets in respect of the marketed products, in-process research and development and contractual relationships in accordance with IFRS3 Revised Business Combinations: Revaluation of inventory reflecting profit accrued up to the stage of production at the time of the transaction: and Deferred tax liabilities in relation to the acquired intangible assets over and above 21.2m of deferred tax assets in recognition of acquired accumulated tax losses.
130 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
