Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
General information Bumi plc the Company is a company domiciled and incorporated in the UK.
The address of the registered office is 2nd floor, 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7HJ.
The Company has its listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company along with its main operating subsidiary, PT Berau Coal Energy Tbk PT Berau, a coal mining group of companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange, comprise the Group.
The Company also holds an investment in PT Bumi Resources Tbk PT Bumi which is also listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange and which was classified as an associate from the date of acquisition to 30 September 2012 see note 15.
PT Bumi is also engaged in coal mining operations and exploration and development of mineral mining concessions.
Principal accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation a Statement of compliance These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee Interpretations IFRIC as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 3 below.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in millions of US dollars $.
b Going concern The Directors have, at the time of approving these consolidated financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
c Review of the financial position of PT Berau As outlined in the Governance Report, an extensive review of the financial position of PT Berau uncovered evidence of apparent financial irregularities and identified significant expenditure, predominantly in 2012, for which no clear business purpose could be established.
In addition, the extensive review identified certain pledges over cash deposits held by PT Berau, which had not been disclosed by previous management at PT Berau.
The findings of the review have impacted the basis of preparation of the Financial Statements in the following three areas: 1.
Other exceptional costs Expenditure for which no clear business purpose could be established has been classified separately as other exceptional costs in the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
This expenditure was attributed by former management principally to hauling roads and other construction in progress, land related payments, consulting services and acquisition related goodwill.
Undisclosed liabilities, commitments and encumbrances over assets The review included an extended assessment of contracts and a search for evidence of unrecorded liabilities, commitments or encumbrances on assets.
Whilst the review cannot provide absolute certainty on the financial position of PT Berau, the Board is satisfied that it has provided sufficient assurance that the financial statements are not materially misstated.
Reclassifications and restatements Consideration has also been given to the presentation of amounts in respect of 2011, and the need to provide information on a comparable and appropriate basis.
Amounts have been reclassified or restated, as follows: i A total of $45m has been reclassified from cost of sales to other exceptional costs for expenditure in 2011 where no clear business purpose could be established.
Refer to Note 34. ii Where such expenditure had been attributed to assets under construction in the acquisition balance sheet, amounting to $31m, it has been reallocated to mining properties, with an associated $14m effect on deferred tax liabilities and goodwill.
Refer to Notes 14, 25 and 13, respectively.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 68 Notes to the Financial Statements continued iii Capital accruals at 31 December 2011 included $20m in respect of construction in progress for which there is no clear business purpose, and the balances have been restated to reverse this accrual.
Refer to Note 14. iv Amounts previously included in cash and cash equivalents have been reclassified as restricted cash, to recognise that previously undisclosed pledges over cash balances amounting to $101m were in place at 31 December 2011.
Refer to Note 19, Note 28 and Note 33, respectively.
v Related party transactions identified in 2012 that were present in 2011 have been disclosed.
Refer to Note 31. vi The tax impact of other exceptional costs identified in 2011 is $20m and the tax charge for the year has been restated.
The impact of reclassifications and restatements is summarised in Note 34.
2.2 New accounting standards The Group applied all applicable standards and interpretations published by the IASB and as endorsed by the European Union for the year beginning 1 January 2012.
The Group did not early adopt any standard or interpretation published by the IASB and endorsed by the European Union for which the mandatory application date is after 1 January 2012.
The following new standards, interpretations and amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, subject to EU endorsement, but are not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2012 and have not been early adopted by the Group: Effective date for periods beginning on or after Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income 1 July 2012 Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 1 January 2013 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2015 IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements 1 January 2014 IAS 27 Revised 2011 Separate financial statements 1 January 2014 Amendments to IAS 32 Financial instruments 1 January 2014 IFRS 11 Joint arrangements 1 January 2014 IAS 28 Revised 2011 Investments in associates and joint ventures 1 January 2014 IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities 1 January 2014 IFRS 13 Fair value measurement 1 January 2013 IFRIC Interpretation 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine 1 January 2013 Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes 1 January 2013 The Group does not currently expect any of these changes to have a material impact on the results or net assets of the Company or the Group with the exception of IFRIC Interpretation 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine IFRIC 20.
IFRIC 20 considers when and how to account separately for benefits arising from production stage stripping activity, as well as how to measure these benefits both initially and subsequently.
The interpretation also addresses the recognition of production stripping costs as an asset, initial measurement of the stripping activity asset and subsequent measurement of the stripping activity asset.
Under IFRIC 20 the stripping costs deferred at the balance sheet date would be reduced to a very low level as coal exposed by the stripping activity is mined shortly thereafter and, for 2012, the impact of early implementation would have been to reduce the balance from $55m to zero.
In addition, whilst not at the same stage, potential changes to IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurements IFRS 13 could have a significant impact.
IFRS 13 seeks to increase consistency and comparability in fair value measurements through a hierarchy of measurements and categorises the inputs used in valuation techniques into levels.
The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs.
As highlighted in The International Accounting Standards Board IASB March 2013 Board meeting, there is a debate as to how the fair value of non-current assets should be determined.
Managements interpretation of the current standards is that, for consolidated subsidiaries, the individual assets such as goodwill and mining properties should be assessed by reference to how a typical industry participant would value the underlying mining concession, using discounted future cash flows incorporating future development plans.
The IASB is proposing to issue an exposure draft to amend IFRS13 in this regard, and are proposing that the fair value measurement of cash generating units CGU for impairment testing, when those CGUs correspond to a quoted entity, should be the product of their quoted price multiplied by the quantity of instruments held.
Two members of the IASB indicated a tentative intention to propose an alternative view in the upcoming exposure draft.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 69 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.3 Consolidation The consolidated financial information consists of the consolidation of the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Consistent accounting policies have been adopted across the group.
b Associates An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence.
Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
The income statement reflects the Groups share of the results of the associate, which is net of interest and taxation and presents this as a single line item in arriving at Group profit before finance items and income tax on the face of the income statement.
The Groups share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Adjustments are made at a Bumi plc level to ensure consistent accounting policies have been adopted across the Group.
Where the Group ceases to have significant influence, any retained interested is remeasured to fair value at the date significant influence is lost, with the change in the carrying amount recognised in the income statement.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as a financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised in Other Comprehensive Income in respect of that entity are reclassified to the income statement.
c Transactions with non-controlling interests The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
d Transactions between entities under common control Business combinations involving entities under common control are accounted for as if the acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the earliest comparative year presented or at the date that common control was established, if later.
The assets and liabilities acquired are recognised at the carrying amounts recognised previously in the Groups controlling shareholders financial statements.
Any differences on consolidation are recognised directly in equity.
2.4 Business combinations and goodwill The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for business combinations in accordance with IFRS 3 revised - Business Combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
The excess of the consideration transferred the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
2.5 Foreign currency translation a Presentation currency The Groups financial statements are presented in millions of US dollars $ which is also the functional currency of the main entities in the Group.
As required to be disclosed by the Companies Act 2006, the exchange rate between US dollars and GB Pounds is as follows: the average rate for year to 31 December 2012 was $1.585 to 1 2011: $1.603 to 1, and the rate at 31 December 2012 was $1.6168 to 1 2011: $1.546 to 1. b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at period end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 70 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.6 Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable from the sale of goods coal in the ordinary course of the Groups activities.
Revenue is shown net of applicable sales taxes, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Under the terms of PT Beraus Coal Contract of Work CCoW, the Government of Indonesia the Government is entitled to 13.5% of the coal production of PT Berau.
Rather than deliver coal to the Government, as agreed, PT Berau markets and sells the Governments coal entitlement and pays the Government the cash proceeds less certain charges.
Revenue in the income statement includes the proceeds of the sales of the Governments entitlement as the Group suffers the credit risk associated with these sales.
The Governments entitlement is recognised as a royalty expense as part of the cost of sales.
Sales revenue is only recognised on individual sales when persuasive evidence exists that all of the following criteria are met: the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer: neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold, has been retained: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group: and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
These conditions are satisfied when title passes to the customer.
In most instances sales revenue is recognised when the product is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is the vessel on which it will be shipped, the destination port or the customers premises.
The sale prices are based on the Newcastle Free on Board FOB benchmark with relevant adjustment for calorific value, moisture, ash and sulphur content and other factors.
Occasionally, products are provisionally priced.
When the price adjustment for a particular year has not been agreed with the customer at the time a delivery is to be made, the Group will continue to invoice coal at the prior years price and adjust the price after reaching an agreement with the customer.
When this occurs, the Group records the sales revenue on a prevailing market price for the coal and adjusts the sales revenue amount when a price agreement is reached with the customer.
2.7 Exploration and evaluation expenditure and assets Exploration and evaluation activity involves the search for coal and mineral resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource.
Exploration and evaluation activity includes: Gathering exploration data through topographical, geochemical and geophysical studies Exploratory drilling, trenching and sampling Determining and examining the volume and grade of the resource Surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific exploration area are charged to the income statement.
Licence costs paid in connection with a right to explore in an existing exploration area are capitalised and amortised over the term of the permit.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure is charged to the income statement as incurred except in the following circumstances, in which case the expenditure is capitalised.
In respect of coal and mineral activities: the acquisition of a concession or licence area of interest at the exploration and evaluation stage from a third party, which is measured at fair value on acquisition: otherwise when the existence of a commercially viable mineral deposit has been established.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is not depreciated as the asset is not available for use, but is monitored for indications of impairment.
Where a potential impairment is indicated, an assessment is performed for each area of interest in conjunction with the group of operating assets representing a cash generating unit to which the exploration is attributed.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is not expected to be recovered it is charged to the income statement.
Cash flows associated with capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure are classified as investing activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows, and exploration and evaluation expenditure related cash flows that are expensed are classified as operating cash flows.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 71 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.8 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises the purchase price, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management and the estimated costs of decommissioning the assets and site rehabilitation costs to the extent that they relate to the asset and are the responsibility of the Group.
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment is capitalised into its various components where the useful life of the components differ from the main item of property, plant and equipment to which the component can be logically assigned.
Expenditure incurred to replace or modify a significant component of property, plant and equipment is capitalised and any remaining carrying value of the component replaced is written off as an expense in the income statement.
Subsequent expenditure on property, plant and equipment is only capitalised when the expenditure enhances the value or output of the asset beyond original expectations and it can be measured reliably.
Costs incurred on repairing and maintaining assets are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment, which are represented by the proceeds on disposal of such assets less their carrying values at that date, are recognised in the income statement.
When proven reserves are determined and development is sanctioned, capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is reclassified as mining properties, and is disclosed as a component of property, plant and equipment.
All subsequent development expenditure relating to the construction of infrastructure required to operate the mine is capitalised and classified as assets under construction.
Development expenditure is net of proceeds from the sale of ore extracted during the development phase.
On completion of the development phase, all assets included in assets under construction are reclassified as either plant and equipment or mining properties.
Mining properties includes assets in production and in development assets transferred from exploration and evaluation expenditure, deferred stripping performed in the development of the mine, and the fair value of mineral resources acquired through business combinations.
Mining properties in development and acquired mineral resources are not depreciated until production commences.
Property, plant and equipment, including mining properties, are depreciated over their useful lives, the lease term, or the term of the CCoW, whichever is shorter.
At the balance sheet date, 13 years are remaining under the original CCoW.
Depreciation commences when an asset is available for use.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight line basis, except for the mining properties in production, which are depreciated on a unit of production UoP basis as follows: Category Estimated Useful Life Land not depreciated Land improvements and buildings 20 years Plant, furniture, fixtures and office equipment 3 to 10 years Assets under construction not depreciated Mining properties over CCoW on a UoP basis Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Changes to the estimated residual values or useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
Costs associated with commissioning new assets, in the period before they are capable of operating in the manner intended by management, are capitalised.
Development costs incurred after the commencement of production are capitalised to the extent they are expected to give rise to a future economic benefit.
2.9 Deferred stripping It is necessary to remove overburden and other waste materials to open the mining area before production commences.
The process of removing overburden and waste materials is referred to as stripping.
Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate operations for the purpose of mine planning, stripping costs are accounted for separately by reference to the ore from each separate pit.
If, however, the pits are highly integrated for the purpose of mine planning, the second and subsequent pits are regarded as extensions of the first pit in accounting for stripping costs.
In such cases, the initial stripping i. e. overburden and other waste removal of the second and subsequent pits is considered to be production phase stripping relating to the combined operation.
The Groups determination of whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations depends on each mines specific circumstances.
In the development stage of a mine, before production commences, stripping costs are capitalised as part of mining properties and amortised on a UoP basis over the life of the mine.
This includes any advance payments to contractors, where mining activities are outsourced, to compensate for the relatively high cost of overburden removal, which arises in the early stages of a mines life.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 72 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Stripping costs incurred in the production phase are deferred to the extent that the actual stripping ratio in the period exceeds the life of mine stripping ratio.
These deferred costs are then released to the income statement as production costs, in those periods where the actual stripping ratio is less than the life of mine stripping ratio.
The life of mine stripping ratio is calculated as the total expected amount of overburden to be removed over the life of the mine, divided by the total expected amount of coal to be mined over the life of the mine.
The life of mine stripping ratio is reviewed regularly and, where necessary, amended to reflect changes in the economically mineable coal reserves, and a more detailed understanding of the overburden to be removed.
The accounting effects of changes to the life of mine stripping ratio are applied prospectively.
Planned stripping ratios are calculated using the life of mine mineable reserves and individual pit designs based on the survey results by the independent mineral expert.
2.10 Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life such as goodwill or intangible assets not ready for use are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
2.11 Financial instruments Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables or as available for sale.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose for which the financial instruments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
The designation of financial instruments is reevaluated at every reporting date.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives are included in this category unless they are designated as hedges.
The Group does not designate any other financial assets as fair value through profit or loss.
Assets in this category are classified based on their maturity.
The Group does not acquire financial assets for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value.
Gains and losses on initial recognition resulting from fair values that do not include any observable market conditions for the same instrument are deferred and recognised in the income statement in full on completion.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are classified as current assets or non-current assets based on their maturity date.
Loans and receivables comprise cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables excluding prepayments in the balance sheet.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost less any impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks, and other short term highly liquid investments.
Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash, generally have an original maturity of 90 days or less and are subject to an insignificant risk of adverse changes in value.
However, certain deposits of greater duration can be classified as cash equivalents if the funds can be withdrawn at short notice with an insignificant risk of adverse changes in value.
Cash that is pledged or encumbered and is not readily available is classified separately as restricted cash.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, reduced by any provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due.
Indicators of impairment would include significant financial difficulties of the debtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, default in payment or a significant deterioration in credit worthiness.
Any impairment is recognised in the income statement.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the income statement.
Included in this account are the trade receivables which pertain to amounts due from customers for coal sold in the ordinary course of business.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 73 Notes to the Financial Statements continued c Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or management intends to dispose of it within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.
The Company holds certain securities, which have been reclassified as available for sale, and are measured at fair value on initial recognition.
Such securities are classified as available for sale, rather than as an investment in an associate if the Company does not have the power to exercise significant influence over the investee.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and changes therein, other than impairment losses, are recognised in other comprehensive income and reflected in the shareholders equity in the consolidated balance sheet.
The fair value of available for sale securities are determined by reference to quoted prices at each reporting date.
When an investment is derecognised the cumulative gain or loss in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss or at amortised cost, as appropriate.
Financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of financial liabilities at amortised cost, inclusive of directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification as follows: a Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include derivative liabilities unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are stated at fair value, with changes in fair value during a reporting period immediately recognised in the income statement.
b Financial liabilities at amortised cost After initial recognition, trade and other payables, interest bearing loans, notes and borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method taking into account principal repayments or reductions.
The calculation also takes into account any premium or discount paid or received either on acquisition or on redemption.
It also includes transaction costs and fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised.
Included in this category are trade and other payables and borrowings.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Trade and other payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year otherwise they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost, any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowing using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw down occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
c Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognise financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, transferred, cancelled or expired.
2.12 Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, primarily on a weighted average cost basis.
Cost of coal inventories is determined by a twelve month rolling weighted average of historical production costs, while cost of spare parts inventories are valued at cost, determined on a moving average basis.
Net realisable value is the estimated sales amount in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
Stores and consumable supplies are charged to production in the period they are used.
Allowance for inventory obsolescence is provided to reduce the carrying values of inventories to their net realisable value based on the review of the status of the inventories at the end of the period.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 74 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.13 Leases The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment.
Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Payments under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
For finance leases, each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other long term payables.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
2.14 Provisions Provisions are recognised when i the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: ii it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and iii the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
a Environmental rehabilitation provision The Group has an obligation to undertake restoration, rehabilitation and environmental work when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of a mining property.
It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred over a period in excess of 20 years.
Rehabilitation costs are a normal consequence of mining, and are provided for as and when a legal or constructive obligation to incur costs associated with rehabilitation arises.
The environmental rehabilitation provision consists of costs associated with continuous mine reclamation during mine operations.
Long term environmental rehabilitation provisions are measured based on the net present value of the estimated future costs.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their respective costs based on feasibility and engineering studies using current restoration standards and techniques, taking into account the Groups environmental policy and current Indonesian environmental and regulatory requirements, including the requirements of the CCoW.
The unwinding of the discount applied in establishing the net present value of provisions is charged to the income statement in each accounting period as a financing cost.
b Mine closure provisions Mine closure provisions, which include decommissioning, demobilisation and other closure activities, are recognised when the economic life of the mine ends within the period of the existing life of the CCoW because they relate to the facilities which are in use over the life of the mine.
The initial mine closure provision together with other movements in the provisions for environmental costs, including those resulting from new disturbance, updated cost estimates, changes to the estimated lives of operations and revisions to discount rates are capitalised in mining properties, within property, plant and equipment.
These costs are then depreciated over the useful life of the assets to which they relate on a UoP basis.
2.15 Taxation The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Group and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial information.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and assets arising on consideration except for deferred income tax liabilities where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 75 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining rights or resources that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
In such cases, the provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its nil income tax base.
The existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes is not taken into account in determining the deferred tax provision relating to such mining rights or resources because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily through use and not from disposal.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
2.16 Ordinary shares Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Where any group company purchases the Companys ordinary shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys owners until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
2.17 Merger Reserve Upon implementation of the Scheme of arrangement in 2011, whereby Bumi plc succeeded Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar Plc as the new parent company for the Group, the Groups ordinary shares have been re presented as that of Bumi plc, with a nominal value of 6.
The difference between Vallar Ltds net assets and the nominal value of the shares in issue is recorded in the merger reserve.
In addition, certain consolidation adjustments are also recorded in the merger reserve.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of critical estimates and assumptions to determine the value of assets and liabilities, and contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date, and revenues and expenses reported during the year.
Due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, the Group regularly revises its estimates in light of currently available information.
Final outcomes could differ from those estimates.
The main judgements and estimates used in preparing the Groups consolidated financial statements are presented below.
3.1 Identification of other exceptional costs As stated in the basis of preparation note 2.1 c, Beraus new management conducted an extensive review of the financial position at PT Berau and identified significant expenditure, principally in 2012, that had no clear business purpose.
These costs had been attributed, by former management, to activities or items which might ordinarily have been of value to PT Berau.
In conducting its review, management had to apply judgement in assessing expenditure in both 2011 and 2012 to determine the substance of counterparties and whether the services performed or assets acquired were of value to the business.
This expenditure has been classified as other exceptional costs and shown separately in the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to separate it from costs incurred in the ordinary course of business.
Comparatives have also been restated.
3.2 Determination of coal reserve estimates The Group reports its coal reserves in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, December 2004 the JORC Code, prepared and published by The Joint Ore Reserves Committee of The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, Australian Institute of Geoscientists and Minerals Council of Australia based on advice from an independent third party working with management in house experts.
The term coal reserve is defined in the JORC Code as the economically mineable part of a measured and or indicated coal resource.
Coal reserves are subdivided in order of increasing confidence into probable coal reserves and proved coal reserves.
Under the JORC Code, the term coal resource refers to a concentration or occurrence of coal of intrinsic economic interest in or on the Earths crust in such form and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a coal resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge.
Coal resources are subdivided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into inferred, indicated and measured categories.
Reserves and resources determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, the assessment of life of mine stripping ratios and in forecasting the timing of the payment of close down and restoration costs and clean-up costs.
In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree of confidence for economic extraction.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating coal reserves, and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 76 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3.3 Recoverable amount of goodwill and property, plant and equipment The recoverable amount of goodwill and property, plant and equipment is based on estimates and assumptions regarding, in particular, the expected market outlook and future cash flows associated with the asset.
Forecast future cash flows include estimates of future costs to produce, proven and probable reserves and resources, future commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and discount rates.
Due to a combination of falling coal prices, increased production costs, reduced volume assumptions and changes to the discount rate, it was determined that the carrying value of the investment in PT Berau was impaired, as explained further in note 13.
Judgement and estimation is required for all elements of the future cash flows, but especially the length of the mining licence and the conversion of resources to reserves.
To date, no first generation CCoW has reached its expiration period and therefore there is no precedent for extension, although this is envisaged in the terms of the CCoW.
Recent legislation from the Government of Indonesia has indicated that CCoWs may be extended in the form of an Izin Usaha Pertambangan IUP issued by the central government.
Whilst the terms of the extension would need to be negotiated, the legislation allows for first-term CCoWs, such as that held by PT Berau, to be extended into an IUP without need for a tender.
Management has risk adjusted future cash flows based on its estimate of the likelihood of favourable extensions of the mining licence beyond the initial CCoW period to 2035 and subsequently 2045.
Future cash flows are also dependent upon the ability to economically mine in areas where mineable reserves have not yet been established to JORC standards.
Judgement is required to support the anticipated conversion of resources to reserves and associated cash flows.
Management has based this judgement on its knowledge of the geology and exploration activity conducted in the concession area, prior experience of the conversion of resources to reserves through additional drilling, and an estimate of the production costs and capital expenditure requirements.
3.4 Share of results of PT Bumi for the nine months ended 30 September 2012 Following the loss of significant influence over PT Bumi from 30 September 2012, Bumi plc was provided with limited IFRS financial information from PT Bumi to calculate the share of results of PT Bumi for the nine months.
Bumi plc has made certain adjustments to comply with Group accounting policies, however, Bumi plc has not had access to underlying information sufficient to allow a complete understanding of business development funds, sufficiency of tax provisions and certain other items.
Judgement is also required in determining the effective date from which significant influence is lost.
The principal factors are set out in note 15, and support the judgement that with the departure of the President Director, Ari Hudaya, from the Bumi plc Board on 24 September 2012 and a lack of access for the auditors of the Company, the Board considered that significant influence ceased from 30 September 2012.
Notwithstanding such estimation uncertainties it is noted that any misstatement in Bumi plcs share of the results from PT Bumi would be offset by an equal and opposite change in the Loss on reclassification of associate to an investment.
The net effect of these two adjacent lines in the Consolidated Income Statement would not change.
3.5 Capitalisation and deferral of production stripping costs The Group defers stripping costs incurred during the production stage of its operations when the actual stripping ratio for a specific period exceeds the expected average stripping ratio over the life time of the mine or pit.
Such deferred costs are then charged against reported profits to the extent that, in subsequent periods, the current period ratio falls below the average stripping ratio.
The expected average ratio is based on proven and probable reserves of the mine.
The expected average stripping ratio is highly dependent on the design of the mine and on the technical and economic parameters of the project.
The Group regularly reviews the expected average stripping ratio of the mine.
3.6 Taxation Taxes are paid by the Groups subsidiary in Indonesia under a number of different regulations and laws, which are subject to varying interpretations.
In addition, these can change frequently and the judicial system does not have well developed rules of precedent.
This, in turn, may result in transactions and activities that have not been challenged in the past being scrutinised in greater detail and additional taxes may be assessed based on new interpretations of the legislation and tax positions.
Accordingly, managements interpretation of such legislation as applied to the transactions and activity of the Groups subsidiary may be challenged by the relevant authorities.
Under Indonesian tax laws, fiscal periods up until 2007 remain open for 10 years, or until the end of 2013 whichever is earlier and fiscal periods ending after 2007 remain open for five years after the time that the tax becomes due.
At the date of these financial statements, the Groups subsidiary, PT Berau has received several tax assessment letters that are not yet finalised and is undergoing a tax audit.
PT Berau has filed objections and or appeals that are still in process or pending decisions, the outcomes of which are not presently determinable.
Management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and the tax position included in these financial statements will be sustained.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 77 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3.7 VAT recoverable There is an ongoing dispute with the Government of Indonesia which resulted from a change in the VAT law in 2001 when coal became a VAT exempt supply.
This change meant that PT Berau could no longer claim credits for its input VAT on purchases.
However, under the Coal Contract of Works CCoW, PT Berau is indemnified against Indonesian taxes not in effect at the time of signing of the CCoW.
On this basis, PT Berau claimed reimbursement for input VAT paid from 2001.
The claims were rejected and PT Berau began setting off the VAT receivable against royalty payments due under the CCoW.
The VAT receivable and royalty payable amounts have been presented separately on a gross basis within trade and other receivables and trade and other payables, respectively.
Whilst there is no current indication that the amount may not be recoverable, management believes that there may be a low risk that the receivable may not be recovered in whole or in part.
Further details are in note 18.
3.8 Fair value of derivatives The Group has borrowings at fixed rates in the form of senior secured notes.
As interest rates continue to fluctuate, the interest rate that the Group could refinance at could be either higher or lower than the fixed rates secured under the notes.
As these notes have call options for early repayment, management believes that the most appropriate treatment is to value these options using option valuation methodologies, taking into account the volatility of interest rates, the exercise price and the length of time to exercise.
Segmental analysis In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8, the operating segments used to present segment information were identified on the basis of internal reports used by the Board of Directors to allocate resources to the segments and assess their performance.
The Board of Directors is the Groups chief operating decision maker within the meaning of IFRS 8.
The Board of Directors considers the business from a product perspective and has determined that the Group has a single reportable segment, being coal mining.
Information on financial performance and net assets is presented in the income statement and balance sheet.
Revenue by destination is as follows: Revenue Revenue Year to 31 December 2012 Year to 31 December 2011 $m % $m % China 524 34 763 54 Taiwan 278 18 203 15 Indonesia 288 19 175 12 India 223 14 103 7 South Korea 137 9 98 7 Hong Kong 41 3 65 5 Rest of Asia 40 3 Total 1,531 100 1,407 100 Revenue by customer is as follows: Revenue Revenue Year to 31 December 2012 Year to 31 December 2011 $m % $m % Taiwan Power Company 241 16 175 12 PT Indonesia Power 208 14 108 8 Hong Kong Qinfa Trading Ltd 217 15 Other 1,082 70 907 65 Total 1,531 100 1,407 100 Bumi plc Annual Report Page 78 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Non-current assets by location are as follows: Non-current assets Non-current assets 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Restated $m % $m % Indonesia 3,556 100 6,374 100 United Kingdom 1 1 Total 3,557 100 6,375 100 2011 figures have been restated to reflect adjustments to goodwill and property, plant and equipment.
Net operating costs Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $m $m Restated Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 5 12 Stripping and mining costs 640 474 Employee costs 49 34 Freight and handling costs 132 101 Net foreign exchange losses gains 9 11 Coal processing and other production costs 45 53 Government royalties paid and payable 176 164 Depreciation and amortisation expense 155 120 Costs associated with corporate transactions 66 Professional and legal fees including auditors remuneration 32 33 Operating lease rentals 15 12 2011 has been restated to exclude the effect of other exceptional costs.
Other exceptional costs As referred to in notes 2.1 c and 3.1, new management conducted an extensive review of the financial position of PT Berau and identified significant expenditure, principally in 2012, that had no clear business purpose.
Previous management at PT Berau had attributed these costs to hauling roads and other construction in progress, land related payments, consulting services and acquisition related goodwill.
These amounts are shown separately in the Consolidated Income Statement to separate them from costs incurred in the ordinary course of business.
The review also identified that certain costs incurred in 2011 had no clear business purpose.
In the comparative numbers, they have been reclassified mainly from cost of sales to other exceptional costs.
An analysis of other exceptional costs is set out below: Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $m $m Expenditure attributed to hauling roads and other construction in progress 79 22 Expenditure attributed to land related payments 42 Consulting services 24 24 Expenditure attributed to goodwill 5 Other 2 3 Total other exceptional costs 152 49 Bumi plc Annual Report Page 79 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 7.
Auditors remuneration During the year the Group, including its overseas subsidiaries, obtained the following services from the Companys auditor.
Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Group $m $m Fees payable to the companys auditor and the auditors associates in relation to: 1 The audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 2.5 1.9 The audit of subsidiaries 1.1 0.2 Fees related to the audit of the Company and its subsidiaries 3.6 2.1 2 Audit related assurance services 0.6 0.9 Total fees for audit and audit related services 4.2 3.0 3 Services related to transactions 0.4 8.7 4 Taxation advisory services 0.1 0.8 5 All other non-audit services 1.6 0.7 Total fees 6.3 13.2 1.
Includes $0.5m of additional fees in respect of 2011 financial statements audit which were agreed with Bumi plc Audit Committtee and recognised in 2012 after the finalisation of 2011 Bumi plc financial statements.
Includes fees in respect of the review of Bumi plcs interim financial statements and quarterly reviews of PT Berau financial information as required by the Indonesia Stock Exchange.
Comprises fees in respect of work in relation to bond offerings by Berau 2011: comprises fees in respect of work as reporting accountants for the acquisition of PT Berau, the investment in PT Bumi, the premium listing of Bumi plc and the proposed acquisition of BRM that did not proceed: also includes fees in respect of bond offerings by PT Berau 4.
Comprises advice regarding UK-Indonesia transfer pricing 2011: comprises taxation related advice in relation to transactions.
Includes $0.6m 2011: $0.3m in respect of the Groups Health, Safety, Environment and Communities programme: $0.4m 2011: $0.3m in relation to advice regarding the Groups response to the UK Bribery Act: $0.1m in respect of advice in connection with a systems implementation at PT Berau: and $0.5m in connection with the investigation into alleged financial irregularities.
Underlying earnings and underlying EBITDA The Group presents underlying earnings and underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation underlying EBITDA as additional measures to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations.
Underlying earnings and underlying EBITDA exclude separate items.
Separate items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed.
Separate items include when applicable, impairment of goodwill and other assets, costs of acquiring and integrating acquisitions, fundamental restructuring of business, profit or loss on disposal of a business or significant other asset, material claims and settlements, other exceptional costs and significant gains and losses on derivative instruments.
The results of PT Bumi, which were treated as an associate for the nine months to 30 September 2012, have been excluded from underlying earnings and underlying EBITDA as PT Bumi is available for sale and it no longer represents a part of the ongoing operations of the Group.
The 2011 underlying earnings and underlying EBITDA have been restated to exclude the share of loss of associate.
The impact of this has been to increase the prior year underlying earnings and underlying EBITDA by $39m.
In addition, 2011 numbers have been adjusted for the impact of other exceptional costs which has increased prior year underlying earnings and underlying EBITDA by $49m.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 80 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The adjustments made to net earnings to arrive at underlying earnings and underlying EBITDA are explained below: Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $m $m Restated Loss attributable to owners of the parent 2,323 337 Exclusions from underlying earnings: Costs associated with corporate transactions 66 Impairment of goodwill 815 Non-controlling interest 227 11 Other exceptional costs 152 49 Share of loss of associate 167 39 Reclassification of share of other comprehensive income of associate to Income Statement 6 Loss on reclassification of associate to an investment 1,394 Movement on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 24 286 Separate Items 2,271 429 Underlying loss earnings attributable to owners of the parent 52 92 Add back deduct : Depreciation and amortisation 155 120 Finance income 14 13 Finance costs 135 83 Income tax 132 187 Non-controlling interest 9 42 1 Underlying EBITDA 365 511 The 2011 numbers have been restated to reflect share of loss of associate and other exceptional costs and associated tax effect as described in Note 2.
1 Underlying EBITDA represents the whole Group.
Employee numbers and payroll costs The average number of employees, excluding contractors and associates employees by principal location of employment was: Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Indonesia 1,228 799 United Kingdom 17 10 1,245 809 Payroll costs in respect of the employees included in the tables above were: Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $m $m Wages and salaries 47 34 Social security costs 1 Share based payments 1 Total payroll costs 49 34 Bumi plc Annual Report Page 81 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 10.
Finance income and costs Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $m $m Finance income Interest receivable and other finance income 14 13 Total finance income 14 13 Finance costs Interest payable and other finance costs 135 83 Total finance costs 135 83 Movement on financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss 24 286 Net finance costs 97 356 11.
Taxation Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $m $m Restated Tax charged to the consolidated income statement in the year: Current tax UK Corporation Tax at 24.5% 2011: 26.25% Current year Overseas tax Current year 190 203 Prior period adjustment 20 Current year restated 190 223 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 58 36 Total tax charged to consolidated income statement 132 187 The 2011 tax charge has been restated for the tax effect of other exceptional costs.
The impact is $20m The deferred tax credit, primarily relates to the release of $52m 2011: $36m of the deferred tax liability linked to the depreciation of mining properties recognised in the Purchase Price Allocation following the acquisition of PT Berau.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 82 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The Groups tax charge was higher than the UK statutory rate and can be reconciled as follows: Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $m $m Loss before tax 2,409 119 UK Corporation Tax at 24.5% 2011: 26.25% 590 31 Tax effects of: Loss on reclassification of associate to an investment 340 Impairment of goodwill 200 Share of loss of associate 41 10 Tax Losses for which no deferred tax asset was recognised 46 5 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 29 116 Effect of differences between local and United Kingdom tax rates 63 83 Dividend withholding taxes 3 4 Total tax charged to consolidated income statement 132 187 A number of changes to the UK corporation tax system were announced in the March 2012 Budget Statement.
With effect from 1 April 2012, the main rate of corporation tax was reduced from 26% to 24%.
The impact of this change has been recognised in calculating the effective rate of tax for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 24% to 23% effective from 1 April 2013 was included in the Finance Act 2012, which received Royal Assent on 17 July 2012.
Further reductions to the main rate have been proposed to reduce the rate by 2% per annum to 21% by 1 April 2014 and reduce the rate by 1% to 20% by 1 April 2015.
The changes are not expected to have a material impact on the Groups deferred tax balances.
Indonesian corporate tax rate is 25%, with the exception of the tax charged within a CCoW which incurs a tax rate of 45%.
No income tax has been charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive income during the year or the preceding period.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 83 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 12.
Earnings per share EPS The calculation of earnings per ordinary share is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
In addition to the earnings per share required by IAS 33 Earnings per Share, underlying EPS has also been calculated and is based on earnings excluding the effect of separately disclosed items.
It has been calculated to allow shareholders to have a better understanding of the trading performance of the Group.
Details of the underlying EPS are set out below: Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 1,2 $m $m Restated Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 2,323 337 Separate items note 8 2,271 429 Underlying earnings attributable to owners of the parent 52 92 Number of shares millions Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 241 192 Potentially dilutive share options Diluted weighted average number of shares 241 192 $ $ 1 Basic loss per share 9.64 1.76 Effect of potentially dilutive share options 1 Diluted loss per share 9.64 1.76 2 Basic underlying earnings per share 0.22 0.48 Effect of potentially dilutive share options 2 Diluted underlying earnings per share 0.22 0.48 1 Basic and diluted loss per share has been restated as explained in Note 34.
2 The underlying earnings per share has been restated to reflect share of loss of associate and other exceptional costs as explained in Note 8.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 84 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13.
Intangible assets Exploration and evaluation Goodwill 2 assets $m $m Restated Cost At 1 January 2011 Acquired through business combinations 1,320 Additions 4 At 31 December 2011 4 1,320 Adjustment to prior year acquisition valuations 14 At 31 December 2011 restated 4 1,334 Acquired through business combinations 4 Additions 1 1 Transfer to other exceptional costs 5 At 31 December 2012 5 1,333 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2011 Amortisation charge for the year At 31 December 2011 Amortisation charge for the year Impairment charge for the year 815 At 31 December 2012 815 Net book value at 31 December 2012 5 518 Net book value at 31 December 2011 4 1,334 1.
This represents goodwill arising on the acquisition of PT Pelayaran Sandita Perkeson Maritim, PT Kirana Berau and PT Manira Mitra where it was established that the excess consideration above the fair value of assets acquired had no clear business purpose.
This has been written off to other exceptional costs in the year.
Following the adjustment to prior year acquisition valuations of assets under construction, mining properties and goodwill arising on acquisition were also restated.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill arising through acquisitions has been allocated to individual or groups of cash generating units CGUs, each representing the lowest level in the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The carrying value of the Groups goodwill of $1,334m at 31 December 2011 has arisen mainly on the acquisition of PT Berau on 4 March 2011, which is treated as a single CGU.
The Groups annual impairment review resulted in an impairment charge of $815m on a 100% basis non-controlling interest: $194m for 2012.
PT Beraus recoverable amount has been assessed based on fair value less costs to sell using discounted cash flows.
Expected future cash flows are inherently uncertain and could materially change over time.
They are significantly affected by a number of factors including ore reserves and production estimates, commodity prices, discount rates, future operating costs and capital expenditure.
Cash flow projections are based on financial budgets and production plans to the end of the Coal Contract of Work CCoW, including two ten year extensions, appropriately risk adjusted.
The key assumptions relating to the calculation of PT Beraus fair value less costs to sell are the long term thermal coal price: operating costs: and discount rates.
The medium term 2013 to 2017 forecast benchmark thermal coal price is within the range supported by market analysts of $90 to $113 per tonne 2011: $108 to $125 in nominal terms.
This price is then adjusted for various coal quality parameters, such as calorific value, moisture and sulphur content, to derive the expected realised selling prices on a free on board FOB basis.
Post tax cash flows were estimated for the period of the Coal Contract of Work CCoW, and discounted using a post tax discount rate of between 9.8% and 10.5% 2011: 9.7% and 10.3% expressed in nominal terms.
The operating costs included in the fair value assessment are calculated based on PT Beraus production plans for the remainder of the CCoW.
Price assumptions for inputs are based on analysis of market fundamentals and are made consistent with related output price assumptions.
The Coal Contract of Work expires in 2025, with further extensions permitted, subject to terms and conditions being agreed.
Management has included two 10 year extensions in the fair value less costs to sell at 31 December 2012, with additional risk adjustments as appropriate.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 85 Notes to the Financial Statements continued It is estimated that the following adverse changes in key assumptions would lead to corresponding decreases in fair value less costs to sell, which may lead to a further impairment charge: 5% decrease in thermal coal prices $510m 5% increase in operating costs $240m 5% decrease in planned volumes $120m 1% increase in discount rate applied to post tax cash flows $150m Each of the sensitivities above was determined assuming the relevant key assumption moved in isolation, except where modifying the thermal coal price directly affects certain input costs, and further assumes that management does not take any mitigating actions.
However, this is for disclosure purposes and under those circumstances management could take mitigating action such as changes to the mine plan, cost reduction initiatives and additional sales strategies.
Property, plant and equipment Plant, furniture, fixtures and Assets 1 2 Mining Land and office under properties buildings equipment construction Total $m $m $m $m $m Restated Cost At 1 January 2011 On acquisition of subsidiary 2,948 15 20 75 3,058 Additions 34 12 55 101 Transfers 9 8 17 Disposals At 31 December 2011 2,982 24 40 113 3,159 Reversal of capital accruals in prior period 20 20 Write off of assets under construction in prior period 4 4 Adjustment made in current year to previous acquisition 2 valuations 31 31 At 31 December 2011 restated 3,013 24 40 58 3,135 Additions 56 18 51 125 Transfers 19 25 44 At 31 December 2012 3,069 43 83 65 3,260 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2011 Depreciation for the year 115 2 3 120 Disposals At 31 December 2011 115 2 3 120 Depreciation for the year 141 3 11 155 At 31 December 2012 256 5 14 275 Net book value at 31 December 2012 2,813 38 69 65 2,985 Net book value at 31 December 2011 restated 2,898 22 37 58 3,015 1.
Mining properties at 31 December 2012 include deferred stripping costs of $55m 2011: $36m.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs of $25m 2011: $34m is included within depreciation for the year.
The review of the financial position at PT Berau, also identified $31m of Assets under Construction that were included in the balance sheet on acquisition by Bumi plc, but for which there is no clear business purpose.
The acquisition balance sheet has been restated on the basis that had the nature of the expenditure been understood at that time, an additional $31m of the acquisition cost would have been allocated to Mining Properties.
Associated adjustments of $14m have also been made to the acquired goodwill and deferred tax balances.
In addition, $20m of accruals were reversed and $4m of assets under construction incurred were written off.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 86 Notes to the Financial Statements continued In accordance with the CCoW, certain fixed assets recorded in the consolidated financial statements remain the property of the Government of Indonesia.
However, PT Berau has an exclusive right to use these fixed assets over the CCoW period.
Depreciation expense of $155m 2011: $120m has been charged to cost of sales.
No borrowing costs were capitalised in line with IFRS 7 during 2012 or 2011.
Property, plant and equipment includes $1m 2011: $1m under finance leases.
Assets under construction represent projects that have not been completed and are analysed as follows: 2012 2011 Land improvements 27 19 Buildings and infrastructure 22 17 Machinery and equipment 15 14 Furniture, fixtures and office equipment 1 6 Transportation equipment 2 Total 65 58 15.
Investment in associate Note $m At 1 January 2011 Acquisition of 25% interest in PT Bumi 1,783 3.9% step up on 5 July 2011 282 0.3% step up on 15 July 2011 24 Share of loss 39 Share of other comprehensive income 2 Dividends received 30 Other equity movements At 31 December 2011 2,022 Share of loss for nine months to 30 September 2012 167 Share of other comprehensive income 4 Dividends received 9 Carrying value before reclassification at 30 September 2012 1,850 Loss on reclassification of associate to an investment 1,394 Value as at 30 September 2012 456 Reclassification to available for sale asset 16 456 At 31 December 2012 IAS 28 Investments in Associates includes a rebuttable presumption that where a company has more than 20% of the voting equity in another company, it is presumed to be an Associate.
Following the initial investment of 25% in the ordinary share capital of PT Bumi in March 2011, which increased to 29% in July 2011, Bumi plc determined it had significant influence over PT Bumi.
In addition to the rights associated with the Groups equity investment, influence was also conveyed by common management teams as Bumi plcs shared the same Chief Executive Officer, Ari Hudaya, and Chief Financial Officer, Andrew Beckham, with PT Bumi.
During the course of 2012 there were a number of events that led Bumi plc to review the influence that it had over PT Bumi, these included: the changes to the Bumi plc Board following the joint venture between PT Borneo Lumbung Energi & Metal Tbk and the Bakrie Group, where Andrew Beckham resigned from the Board and Ari Hudaya became a Non-Executive Director on 26 March 2012.
Samin Tan and Scott Merrillees joined the Board at this time and became Commissioners of PT Bumi in May 2012, which was designed to contribute to ongoing significant influence.
the extension of certain financial arrangements between PT Bumi and the Recapital Group at the end of August 2012 against the wishes of Bumi plc and, finally, the resignation of the President Director of PT Bumi, Ari Hudaya, from the Board on 24 September 2012.
Whilst Samin Tan and Scott Merrillees remained Commissioners of PT Bumi at this date, the lack of formal Board meetings and the information they were provided, were in Bumi plcs view insufficient for them to participate in policy making decisions or to exert significant influence.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 87 Notes to the Financial Statements continued On 5 November 2012, Bumi plc announced the result of its review, which determined that it was not able to exert significant influence over PT Bumi and that it was longer appropriate to account for its shareholding in PT Bumi as an associate in accordance with IAS 28, with effect from 30 September 2012.
As set out in note 2, information was provided by PT Bumi for results under IFRS to 30 September 2012, however access to underlying information was not sufficient to allow a complete understanding of business development funds, the sufficiency of tax provisions and other items.
Whilst access to this additional information may have changed the reported result for PT Bumi for the nine months ended 30 September 2012 there would have been an equal and opposite impact on the reported loss on reclassification to an investment, since that is calculated based on the carrying value of the associate immediately prior to reclassification.
No information has been received in respect of any period since 30 September 2012.
This lack of access extended to the Companys auditors and has led to a qualification in their audit opinion due to a limitation of scope.
Following the Boards decision that Bumi plc is no longer able to exert significant influence, the investment in PT Bumi has been accounted for as an available for sale investment in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement with effect from 30 September 2012.
IAS 28 requires that any share of the results of an associate previously reported in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income SOCI should be transferred to the Income Statement.
Accordingly, $6m has been transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement in the current period.
The Groups share of the results of its associate for the nine months to 30 September 2012, and its aggregated assets including goodwill and liabilities as at 30 September 2012 are as follows: Assets Liabilities Revenue Loss Interest held Name Country of incorporation $m $m $m $m % PT Bumi Indonesia 5,038 3,132 808 167 29.2 The Groups share of the results of its associate for the period to 31 December 2011, and its aggregated assets including goodwill and liabilities as at 31 December 2011 are as follows: Assets Liabilities Revenue Loss Interest held Name Country of incorporation $m $m $m $m % PT Bumi Indonesia 5,208 3,132 974 39 29.2 16.
Available for sale financial asset From 30 September 2012, the investment in associate was reclassified as an available for sale asset.
Note $m At 1 January 2012 Reclassification following loss of significant influence at PT Bumi 15 456 Change in value during the period from 30 September 2012 84 At 31 December 2012 372 The available for sale financial asset consists of 6,061,699,637 ordinary shares in PT Bumi that are quoted on the Indonesia Stock Exchange and are denominated in Indonesian Rupiahs.
The valuation of the available for sale financial asset at 30 September 2012 and 31 December 2012 has been calculated using the closing bid price for PT Bumi ordinary shares quoted on the Indonesia Stock Exchange on the last working day prior to the relevant dates and the closing US Dollar exchange rate against the Indonesian Rupiah IDR.
The exchange rates used at 30 September 2012 and 31 December 2012 were IDR 9,569: $1 and IDR 9,613: $1 respectively.
As at 31 December 2012, the market value of the Groups interest in PT Bumi, which is listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange, was $372m 2011 market value: $1,470m.
Changes in the valuation of the Groups interest in the period from 30 September 2012 to 31 December 2012 have been recognised in other comprehensive income as the diminution in value is not considered to be permanent and the subsequent increase in value of the investment from the year end to the date of this report has supported managements view.
Inventories 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $m $m Raw materials and consumables 10 7 Finished products 29 23 Total inventories 39 30 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to $676m 2011: $538m.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 88 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Due within Due within one year one year $m $m Trade receivables 144 128 Tax recoverable 409 309 Other receivables 34 44 Prepayments and accrued income 5 14 Total trade and other receivables 592 495 Trade and other receivables includes VAT recoverable of $409m 2011: $309m representing amounts claimed by PT Berau from the Government of Indonesia.
This amount is part of an ongoing dispute with the Government of Indonesia which resulted from a change in the VAT law in 2001 when coal became a VAT exempt supply.
However, under the CCoW, PT Berau is indemnified against Indonesian taxes not in effect at the time of signing of the CCoW.
Subsequent to the year end, the mining industry operating under CCoWs have agreed in principle with the Government of Indonesia that input VAT is recoverable on a prospective basis.
However, as part of the agreement sales tax of 1% will be applied to certain services.
There has been no agreement on the balance as at 31 December 2012.
The Groups exposure to credit and currency risks related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in note 24.
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $m $ m Restated Cash at bank and in hand 401 480 Short term bank deposits 56 27 Total cash and cash equivalents 457 507 The 2011 numbers have been restated to exclude restricted cash as shown below.
Following the extensive review of the financial position of PT Berau certain time deposits were identified which were pledged as security to persons outside the Group, including in respect of 2011.
As this cash is not readily available it has been reclassified to restricted cash.
The pledges were removed in full during April 2013 and the balances outstanding at each year end are shown below: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $m $ m Restated Restricted cash 124 101 The 2011 numbers have been restated to disclose restricted cash as described in Note 2.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 89 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 20.
Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $m $m Restated Trade payables 73 128 Amounts owed to related parties 8 5 Royalties 448 315 Social security and other taxes 25 18 Other payables 1 7 Accruals 278 152 Reversal of prior period accrual note 34 20 Accruals restated 278 132 Total trade and other payables 833 605 Royalties payable includes $409m 2011: $309m, accumulated from 2001 to December 2012 for offset against VAT input recoverable from the Government of Indonesia, as disclosed in Note 18.
Amounts owed to related parties are unsecured with no fixed payment date and are interest free.
Financial Instruments by category Financial assets The carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets are as follows: 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Estimated Carrying Estimated Carrying fair value value fair value value $m $m $m $m Financial assets Restated Restated At fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial asset 24 24 At market value Available for sale financial asset 372 372 Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents 457 457 507 507 Trade and other receivables 178 178 172 172 Restricted cash 124 124 101 101 Total financial assets 1,155 1,155 780 780 The 2011 numbers have been restated to exclude restricted cash.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 90 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Financial liabilities The carrying amounts and fair values of financial liabilities are as follows: 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Estimated Carrying Estimated Carrying fair value value fair value value Financial liabilities $m $m $m $m At amortised cost Trade and other payables 82 82 140 140 Borrowings 976 971 850 830 Total financial liabilities 1,058 1,053 990 970 Management consider the carrying value of trade and other payables to equal their fair value.
The fair value of borrowings is estimated by using the quoted market price of the bonds as at the balance sheet date.
An analysis of financial assets carried at fair value is set out below: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Fair value hierarchy $m $m Financial assets Level 1 Available for sale financial asset 372 Level 2 Level 3 At fair value through profit and loss 24 Total financial assets 396 If the refinancing rate increased by 100 base points then the value of the derivative would be $14m and if the refinancing rate decreased by 100 base points the value of the derivative would be $34m.
Borrowings An analysis of borrowings is set out below: 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Due within Due one to Due two to Due within Due one to Due two to one year two years five years Total one year two years five years Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Bank loans 336 12 76 106 163 345 Senior secured notes 9 9 941 959 9 9 467 485 Total 12 12 947 971 85 115 630 830 The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are all denominated in US dollars.
a Bank Loans On 23 July 2010, PT Berau entered into a $400m Senior Secured Credit Facility.
PT Berau drew down the entire $400m available under this facility.
The facility comprises two tranches: i Tranche A a principal amount of $300m and ii Tranche B a principal amount of $100m.
Interest for the Tranche A loans is payable quarterly and accrues at the rate of London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR plus a margin of 4.75% per annum.
Interest for Tranche B loans is payable quarterly and accrues at the rate of LIBOR plus a margin of 5.75% per annum, an additional utilisation fee is also payable on this tranche of 2.25% per annum.
The closing balance at 31 December 2011 was $340m.
On 13 March 2012, PT Berau repaid the outstanding balance of the above Senior Secured Credit Facility in full, with the proceeds from the issuance of $500m of 2017 Senior Secured Notes.
In addition, other outstanding loans at 31 December 2012 were $12m 2011: $5m.
The maturity dates range from April 2016 to October 2017 and are subject to interest in a range from 6.5% to 8.0% per annum which is calculated on the outstanding loan facilities.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 91 Notes to the Financial Statements continued b Senior Secured Notes On 8 July 2010, Berau Capital Resources Pte BCR, a wholly owned subsidiary based in Singapore, issued $350m of 12.5% Senior Secured Notes.
On 29 July 2010, BCR also issued an additional $100m of 12.5% Senior Secured Notes together the 2015 Senior Notes.
PT Berau used the net proceeds of the 2015 Senior Notes and the Senior Secured Credit Facility to repay indebtedness.
The maturity date of the 2015 Senior Notes is 8 July 2015, and interest is payable semi-annually and commenced on 8 January 2011.
The 2015 Senior Notes bear an interest rate of 12.5% per annum.
On 13 March 2012, PT Berau issued $500m Senior Notes with a maturity date of 13 March 2017 2017 Senior Notes.
The 2017 Senior Notes bear an interest rate of 7.25% per annum.
PT Berau used the net proceeds to repay the balance outstanding on the Senior Secured Credit Facility and will use the remainder of the proceeds to fund capital expenditure and other operating activities.
Interest is payable semi-annually commencing on 13 September 2012.
The carrying value at 31 December 2012 was $486m 2011: $nil including an adjustment to reflect deferred finance charges.
Derivative financial instruments The Groups derivative financial instruments comprise level 3 financial instruments, the reconciliation of which is shown below: PT Berau Acquisition Acquisition Step up of Repayment of PT Berau of PT Bumi PT Bumi Options Total $m $m $m $m $m As at 1 January 2011 595 64 659 Fair value of financial instrument on initial recognition 21 21 Subsequent fair value loss gain charged to the income statement 105 309 10 404 Deferred gain on initial recognition recognised in balance sheet 21 21 Write off deferred loss gain on initial recognition to income statement 20 118 21 119 Transfer to cost of investment 470 127 31 374 As at 31 December 2011 Fair value of gains recognised in the income statement 24 24 As at 31 December 2012 24 24 Acquisition and step up related financial instruments a Under the PT Berau Sale and Purchase of Shares Agreement, the Group paid $739m on 16 November 2010 and committed to exchange 52,297,680 of the Companys shares as consideration for 75% of the equity of PT Berau on 8 April 2011.
The cash advance and embedded share for share exchange derivative were classified, together, as a financial instrument at fair value through profit or loss.
The initial fair value loss of $20m arising on 16 November 2010, calculated as the difference between the fair value of the PT Berau shares to be received and the cash paid plus fair value of the Companys shares to be issued was deferred until control of PT Berau passed to the Group on 4 March 2011.
On that date it was recognised in the income statement.
The subsequent fair value loss of $105m was recognised in the income statement.
Also on 4 March 2011, when control of PT Berau passed to the Group an amount of $470m was set against the cost of investment in PT Berau.
b Under the PT Bumi Sale and Purchase of Shares Agreement, the Group committed to a share for share exchange as consideration for 25% of PT Bumi.
The number of shares to be exchanged was fixed on 16 November 2010, but share exchange and completion occurred on 4 March 2011.
The share for share exchange is classified as a derivative financial instrument.
The initial fair value gain of $118m arising on 16 November 2010, calculated as the difference between the fair value of the PT Bumi shares to be received and fair value of the Companys shares to be issued, was deferred until the transaction closed on 4 March 2011, at that point it was recognised in the income statement.
The subsequent fair value loss of $309m for the period to 31 December 2011 $64m gain in the 9 months to 31 December 2010 was recognised in the income statement.
Also on 4 March 2011, when the Group gained significant influence over PT Bumi, an amount of $127m was set against the cost of the investment in PT Bumi.
c On 27 June 2011 the Group entered into sale and purchase agreements with a number of shareholders in PT Bumi pursuant to which Bumi plc agreed to purchase shares in the capital of PT Bumi representing approximately 4.2% note 15 of the issued ordinary share capital of PT Bumi, in consideration of the issue to the Selling PT Bumi Shareholders of 15,059,827 Note 26 26 Bumi plc Voting Ordinary Shares.
These transactions closed on 5 July 2011 and 15 July 2011, at which point the Groups total shareholding in PT Bumi was increased to 29.2%.
The initial fair value gain of $21m arising on 27 June 2011, calculated as the difference between the fair value of the Bumi plc shares to be received and fair value of the Companys shares to be issued, was deferred until the transactions closed on 5 July 2011 and 15 July 2011.
The subsequent fair value gain of $10m was recognised in the income for the period to 31 December 2011.
On 5 July 2011 and 15 July 2011, when control of the shares pass to the Group an amount of $31m will be set against the cost of the investment in Bumi plc.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 92 Notes to the Financial Statements continued PT Berau Repayment Options d The fair value of the financial instruments of $24m 2011: nil represents the fair value of the early repayment options of the 2015 Senior Notes and the 2017 Senior Notes.
The 2015 Senior Notes can be repaid from 8 July 2013 at a price of 106.25% and similarly the 2017 Senior Notes can be repaid from 13 March 2015 at 103.625%.
The fair value represents the value of a call option that arises due to the difference between the market rate of interest that PT Berau could have borrowed at on 31 December 2012 and the actual rate of interest paid on each senior note.
Financial risk management 24.1 Financial risk factors The Groups policies with regard to financial risk management are clearly defined and consistently applied.
They are a fundamental part of the Groups long term strategy covering areas such as foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk management.
24.2 Market risk a Foreign exchange risk The Group is naturally hedged against foreign exchange risk because the percentage of costs in US dollars is aligned with the revenues the Group receives in US dollars.
This relationship also holds true for the Groups revenues and costs in Indonesian Rupiah.
Based on an assessment of volatility of the US dollar: Indonesian Rupiah exchange rate over the preceding 12 months, as at 31 December 2012, an increase of 5% in the value of the US dollar against the Indonesian Rupiah is considered reasonably probable and this would have increased the Groups operating loss by $15m 2011: an increase of 5% was considered reasonably probable and would have decreased profits by $2.6m.
This analysis assumes all other variables remain constant.
An increase of 5% in the value of the US dollar against the Indonesian Rupiah would have increased the Groups charge through other comprehensive income for the change in value of available for sale asset by $17.7m through the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income.
b Commodity price risk The movement in coal prices is determined by macro-economic factors, with short term global supply and demand conditions further adding to volatility.
The Group has taken steps to mitigate this risk by modelling the impact of movements in coal prices, closely monitoring the cost components, and adjusting plans and activities accordingly.
The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down by the Board and to internal controls.
The Board does not generally believe commodity price hedging would provide long term benefit to shareholders.
Contract prices for coal are generally agreed annually with customers, although volume commitments vary by product.
c Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from long term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk, which is offset by cash held at variable rates.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
A 1% increase in the floating interest rate would have a positive $4.0m 2011:$2.6m impact on the consolidated profit for the year, as the Groups debt is largely at a fixed rate.
A 1% increase in interest rates has been used based on management judgement and historical experience to best reflect future movements.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 93 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24.3 Credit risk Credit risk is managed on a group basis.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, deposits with banks and financial institutions and receivables.
The Group places funds with banks and financial institutions only if independently rated with a minimum rating of B. BBis a higher rating than B.
The maximum exposure the Group faces due to credit risks on cash and cash equivalents is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $m $m Restated Cash and cash equivalents AAA 43 33 AA 10 AA 3 AA- 295 385 A 83 A 80 BBB 11 Other 15 6 Total cash and cash equivalents 457 507 2011 numbers have been restated to exclude restricted cash.
Restricted cash was pledged for the benefit of counterparties with no credit rating.
The Group requires all customers to provide irrevocable letters of credit or pay by confirmed electronic transfer.
The historical level of customer default is minimal and as a result the credit quality of year end trade receivables is considered to be high.
Of the year end trade receivables balance, the following were past due at the balance sheet dates: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $m $m Not yet due 126 108 Less than one month 5 20 One month to two months 6 Over two months 7 Total trade receivables 144 128 The overdue receivables ageing profile above is typical of the industry in which certain of the Groups businesses operate.
Given this, the existing insurance cover including letters of credit from financial institutions and the nature of the related counterparties, these amounts are considered recoverable.
There was no impairment provision in relation to receivables at 31 December 2012 2011: $nil.
24.4 Liquidity risk Cash flow forecasting is performed in the operating entities of the Group and aggregated by Group Finance.
Group Finance monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its debts at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or covenants on any of its borrowing facilities.
Such forecasting takes into consideration the Groups debt financing plans, covenant compliance, compliance with internal balance sheet ratio targets and external regulatory and legal requirements.
Maturity of financial liabilities The tables below analyse the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows at 31 December 2012: At 31 December 2012 Carrying Contractual Six months 612 More than amount cash flows or less months 12 years 25 years five years $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank loans 12 152148 Senior notes 959 1,338 46 46 93 1,153 Trade payables 82 82 82 Total 1,053 1,435 130 47 97 1,161 Bumi plc Annual Report Page 94 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The amounts disclosed in the table below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows at 31 December 2011: At 31 December 2011 Carrying Contractual Six months 612 More than amount cash flows or less months 12 years 25 years five years $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank loans 345 392 41 56 122 173 Senior notes 485 648 28 28 56 536 Trade payables 140 140 140 Total 970 1,180 209 84 178 709 The table below provides information about the contractual undiscounted maturities and interest rate profile of the Groups bank loans and senior notes at 31 December 2012: Carrying 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 amount $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Bank loans 210 12 Average interest rate 8.0% 6.75% Senior notes 473 486 959 Average interest rate 12.5% 7.25% Total 473 2 496 971 The table below provides information about the contractual undiscounted maturities and interest rate profile of the Groups bank loans and senior notes at 31 December 2011: Carrying 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 amount $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Bank loans 235 105 2 3 345 Average interest rate 5.0% 8.3% 8.0% 7.5% Senior notes 485 485 Average interest rate 12.5% Total 235 590 2 3 830 24.5 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $m $m Borrowings 971 830 Share capital and share premium 145 145 1 Reserves 1,372 3,781 Total capital 2,488 4,756 1 Reserves include retained earnings, share based payment reserve and merger reserve.
Under the terms of the Senior Notes, PT Berau and certain subsidiaries are required to maintain certain financial ratios to comply with certain restrictive covenants related to investment, dividend declaration, issuance and sales of share capital and sale of assets.
PT Berau is also required to comply with certain specific terms and conditions, including limitations over the ability of PT Berau to declare dividends or purchase or redeem capital stock.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 95 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets The Group has deferred tax assets of $107m 2011: $63m relating to unused tax losses.
These deferred tax assets have not been recognised as it is not expected that taxable profits will be available against which these assets can be utilised.
In addition, the Group has a deferred tax asset of $420m 2011: nil relating to the unrealised tax loss in respect of its investment in available for sale financial assets.
This deferred tax asset has not been recognised as it is not expected that future taxable profits in the form of chargeable gains will be available against which this asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities The movement in deferred tax liabilities is as follows: Mining Other Total properties $m $m $m Restated At 1 January 2011 Acquired through business combinations 1,310 3 1,313 Credited to the income statement 36 36 As 31 December 2011 1,274 3 1,277 Adjustment made in current year to prior year acquisition valuation 14 14 At 31 December 2011 restated 1,288 3 1,291 Credited to the income statement 52 6 58 At 31 December 2012 1,236 3 1,233 Following the adjustment to prior year acquisition valuations of assets under construction, deferred taxation was also restated.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 96 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26.
Share capital, share premium and merger reserve Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares thousands Redeemable Par value Ordinary Share Merger Deferred share premium reserve Shares thousands Suspended Voting Voting Total Total $m $m $m Balance as at 1 January 2011 67,343 67,343 622 428 Shares issued in relation to PT Bumi transaction on 4 March 2011 28,861 61,211 90,072 6.00 878 1,031 Transfer between categories of ordinary shares 11,902 11,902 6.00 Shares issued in relation to PT Berau transaction on 8 April 2011 27,773 24,525 52,298 6.00 514 604 Shares allotted 50 1.00 PT Bumi step up transaction on 5 July 2011 13,880 13,880 6.00 136 119 Transfer between categories of ordinary shares 5,949 5,949 Capital reduction adjustment on 7 July 2011 2,146 PT Bumi step up transaction on 15 July 2011 1,180 1,180 0.01 22 Share options exercised by Directors 120 120 0.01 Transfer between categories of ordinary shares 557 557 0.01 Exchange of Founder Shares 16,064 16,064 0.01 185 Transfer between categories of ordinary shares 6,885 6,885 0.01 Balance as at 31 December 2011 180,514 60,443 240,957 50 4 141 2,248 Shares allotted Shares redeemed and cancelled 50 1.00 Balance as at 31 December 2012 180,514 60,443 240,957 4 141 2,248 26.1 Ordinary Shares PT Bumi transaction 1 The PT Bumi transaction closed on 4 March 2011.
At the closing of this transaction, the Top Company issued 90,072,216 Top Company Shares to the Bakrie Group for 25% of PT Bumi, of which 28,861,172 were Top Company Voting Ordinary Shares and 61,211,044 were Top Company Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares.
PT Berau transaction At the closing of the PT Berau transaction on 8 April 2011, PT Bukit Mutiara transferred title to, and registered ownership of, shares comprising 75% of PT Berau to Vallar Investments UK Ltd and the Top Company issued 52,297,680 Top Company Shares, of which 27,772,829 were Top Company Voting Ordinary Shares issued to PT Bukit Mutiara and 24,524,851 were Top Company Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares issued to the Bakrie Group pursuant to PT Bukit Mutiara requirements.
As part of the PT Berau transaction, the Top Company also agreed to pay $739m in cash consideration.
Of this amount, approximately $639m was paid to PT Bukit Mutiara On 18 November 2010 and, following the closing of the PT Bumi transaction, the balance was released to PT Bumi, repaying part of a loan owed by PT Bukit Mutiara to PT Bumi.
The closing of the PT Berau transaction triggered a mandatory cash offer for the remaining issued share capital of PT Berau, which has now completed, with the Groups aggregate holding in PT Berau increasing to 84.7% as a result.
1 Top Company means Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc up until 27 June 2011 and Bumi plc from 28 June 2011.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 97 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Transfer between classes of shares The Top Company Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares convert into Voting Ordinary Shares on a one for one basis automatically on issue of new Voting Ordinary shares by the Company.
This is to ensure that PT Bakrie Brothers Tbk, Long Haul Holdings and affiliates percentage ownership in the Top Company Voting Ordinary Shares remains at 29.9%.
Increase in investment in PT Bumi On 27 June 2011, the Group entered into sale and purchase agreements with a number of shareholders in PT Bumi pursuant to which Bumi plc agreed to purchase shares in PT Bumi representing approximately 4.2% of the issued share capital of PT Bumi in consideration for the issue to the selling PT Bumi shareholders of 15,059,827 Bumi plc Voting Ordinary Shares.
These purchases were completed during July 2011.
Capital reduction On 7 July 2011, the Company undertook a capital reduction to create a reserve of distributable profits in PT Bumi available to be distributed as dividends or applied towards any other lawful purpose.
Repurchase of non-controlling interest On 6 October 2011, the Founder Shares, a separate share class of Vallar Holding Company Ltd, were exchanged for 6.67% of the fully diluted ordinary shares of the Company, with a value of $185m.
Further details are set out in a prospectus issued by Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc on 24 February 2011 and the 2010 Annual Report for Vallar plc, which was issued on 28 April 2011.
26.2 Redeemable Deferred Shares The Redeemable Deferred Shares were allocated and issued in order for Bumi plc to satisfy the minimum share capital requirement for the Company to be reregistered as a public company under the Companies Act 2006, which was effected on 1 March 2011.
There were 50,000 Redeemable Deferred Shares of 1 each in the capital of Bumi plc that carried no voting rights and had no economic value.
These shares were redeemed and cancelled on 31 October 2012 and a capital redemption reserve was created equivalent to the nominal amount of 50,000.
26.3 Merger Reserve Upon implementation of the Scheme, the Groups ordinary shares have been represented as that of Bumi plc, with a nominal value of 6.
The difference between the Vallar Ltds formerly Vallar plc net assets and the nominal value of the shares in issue is recorded in the merger reserve.
No dividends have been paid or proposed for the year.
26.4 Founder Securities Founder Securities are a further separate class of equity share capital in Vallar Holding Company Ltd.
The holders of the Founder Securities have the right to exchange the Founder Securities for ordinary shares in the Company to a value of 15% of the increase in value from the initial public offering value of 10.
The original performance conditions attached to these shares were met in 2011.
Further details are set out in a prospectus issued by Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc on 24 February 2011 and the 2010 Annual Report of Vallar plc, which was issued on 28 April 2011.
Non-controlling interests 2012 2011 $m $m Restated At 1 January 685 31 Acquired through business combination 864 Share of loss profit in the year 218 31 Purchase of non-controlling interests mandatory cash offer PT Berau 206 Purchase of non-controlling interests Founder Shares 23 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 25 12 At 31 December 442 685 2011 has been restated for the effect of other exceptional costs.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 98 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28.
Consolidated cash flow analysis 28.1 Reconciliation of loss before tax to cash flows from operations 2012 2011 $m $m Note Restated Loss before income tax 2,409 119 Add back deduct : Depreciation and amortisation 155 120 Movement on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 24 286 Impairment of goodwill 13 815 Other exceptional costs 6 152 49 Share of loss from associate 15 167 39 Reclassification of share of other comprehensive income of associate to Income Statement 15 6 Loss on reclassification of associate to an investment 15 1,394 Net finance costs excluding derivative movements 10 121 70 Foreign exchange losses gains in operating costs 9 11 Increase in inventories 9 10 Increase in receivables 122 56 Increase in payables 148 109 Increase in provisions 1 18 Deferred stripping 44 35 Cash flows generated from operations 348 460 The 2011 numbers have been restated to reflect other exceptional costs separately.
28.2 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt cash Cash Borrowings Total net debt cash $m $m $m Restated At 1 January 2011 324 324 Debt acquired on acquisition 775 775 Cash flows 273 55 218 Outflow of restricted cash 101 101 Exchange adjustments 11 11 At 31 December 2011 507 830 323 Repayment of Bank loans 346 346 Proceeds of issuance of Senior Notes 486 486 Proceeds of bank loans 12 12 Unwind of PPA loan adjustment 11 11 Cash flows 41 41 Exchange adjustments 9 9 At 31 December 2012 457 971 514 The 2011 numbers have been restated to exclude restricted cash.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 99 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29.
Contingent liabilities and contingent assets Contingent liabilities The Group is subject to various claims in the normal course of business.
These include but are not restricted to land claims.
Occasionally local residents issue claims against the Group with regard to the mining on areas of land where ownership is in dispute between the Group and local inhabitants.
The majority of cases are resolved with no material liability assumed by the Group.
No contingent liabilities were secured on the assets of the Group at 31 December 2012 or 31 December 2011.
Other Specific Contingent Liabilities PT Bumi: Contractual mine service fee agreement claim In 2011 PT Bumi had an ongoing dispute with a contractor regarding the contractual mining service fee and its escalation formula.
The contractor is claiming the escalation formula no longer reflects the actual increase in its operating costs.
The former associate believes the contractors rate is supported by other comparative mining contractors rates.
However it is noted that Bumi plc bears no liability and the impact on Bumi plc going forward would be restricted to the impact on dividend outflow.
From 30 September 2012 PT Bumi is no longer accounted for as an associate within the Bumi plc Group and therefore no disclosure is required.
Contingent assets There were no significant contingent assets in the Group at 31 December 2012 or in the Group and the associate at 31 December 2011.
Commitments At 31 December the Group had the following outstanding capital commitments and commitments under non-cancellable operating leases: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Capital commitments $m $m Contracted but not provided: Assets under construction 92 149 Total capital commitment 92 149 The table below sets out payments for aggregate future minimum lease payments.
31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Operating leases $m $m Restated Expiry date Within one year 28 14 Greater than one year, less than two years 13 21 Greater than two years, less than five years Greater than five years 41 35 Operating leases relate principally to land and buildings and vehicles and are principally recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement under the heading of cost of sales.
Bumi plc Annual Report Draft Page 100 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 31.
Related party transactions Under IFRS, disclosure is required of all transactions between Group companies and their related parties.
Related parties include entities controlled by Directors of Bumi plc and associates of the Group.
Recognising the need for full disclosure, and in following up on certain specific concerns, the Audit Committee commissioned a project from Internal Audit to assess payments and contractual arrangements and search for undisclosed transactions with related parties.
Having identified omissions in their initial disclosure, the former directors were asked to review their statement and make a full disclosure of all related party transactions in 2012 of which they were aware.
Upon receipt of their written response Internal Audit worked closely with the new management team and identified a number of related party transactions that had not been disclosed to it.
In the circumstances and despite a thorough review it was not possible to conclude that all related party transactions entered into by the former management for the year ended 31 December 2012 had been identified.
As a result PwCs audit opinion reflects this limitation in their scope.
In addition, this work identified a number of other transactions which could not be proven to have a clear business purpose.
In the light of these findings new PT Berau management commissioned an extensive review of the financial position of PT Berau, assisted by legal and financial advisers.
Within the work performed by Internal Audit and in the subsequent review of PT Beraus financial position, a number of transactions were identified where the ultimate counterparty or beneficiary is not clear.
As these may be related party entities the directors have provided full disclosures consistent with those required for related party transactions.
Accordingly the following transactions have been identified for disclosure for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Comparatives have been restated to include prior year amounts for transactions only identified in 2012 but for which there were payments made in 2011.
Related party transactions The Directors believe that the most material contracts with related parties have been identified, as set out below, based upon a broader assessment of contracts and payments.
The most significant are entities with ownership or management links to the Recapital and Bakrie groups.
Recapital Group The Recapital group is controlled by Rosan Roeslani, the former President Director of PT Berau until 7 March 2013 and Non-Executive Director of Bumi plc until 19 December 2012.
Bakrie Group The Bakrie group includes entities controlled by the Bakrie family which has been represented on the Board of Bumi plc by: Indra Bakrie Co-Chairman until 7 December 2012 Ari Hudaya Chief Executive until 26 March 2012 Non-Executive Director from 26 March 2012 until 24 September 2012 Andrew Beckham Chief Financial Officer until 26 March 2012 Nalin Rathod Chief Executive from 26 March 2012 until 31 December 2012 Non-Executive Director from 1 January 2013 until 21 February 2013 Bumi plc Annual Report Draft Page 101 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The following table summarises the related party transactions that have been identified.
2011 2012 $m Nature of goods or services Note $m Restated Purchases of goods Recapital Group Acquisition of vessel a 0.7 Bakrie Group Fuel supply b 74.0 20.5 Recapital Group Prepaid leases c 8.1 12.0 Purchases of services Recapital Group Transhipment costs d 12.8 2.2 Recapital Group Barging services 1 e Recapital Group Barging services 2 f 1.5 1.7 Recapital Group Private jet hire g 3.8 1.4 Recapital Group Office services h 1.7 0.5 Bakrie Group Mining contractor services i 20.8 5.0 Bakrie Group Coal marketing services j 0.8 N Rothschild and J Campbell Professional services k 0.4 2.9 N Rothschild Business expenses and professional services l 4.9 Finance Income Cost Recapital Group Interest received m 0.2 0.3 Recapital Group Interest costs n 0.1 Recapital Group Professional services o 1.6 Other Rosan Roeslani Advances p 0.6 a The value of this vessel is currently being assessed and if it is not considered fit for purpose for the business, management intend to return it to Recapital.
b The terms of this fuel supply agreement, which represents approximately 25% of fuel consumed by PT Berau, are considered by management to be on acceptable commercial terms.
The supply of fuel commenced in the second half of 2011 and therefore we are not comparing equal periods.
c Prepaid lease costs for land to enable the planned expansion of the mine see note A below.
d The terms of this transhipping agreement is considered by management to be on acceptable commercial terms.
However, the contract commits PT Berau to pay approximately $60 million over 5 years.
The commercial terms of this arrangement have been assessed by reference to other third party barging contracts entered into by the company and external benchmarking and are considered reasonable.
f The terms of this barging arrangement are being reviewed, and the contract will be renewed, renegotiated or terminated according to the best commercial interests of PT Berau.
g The terms and conditions under which PT Berau makes use of private jets are being reviewed, and the contract will be renewed, renegotiated or terminated according to the best commercial interests of PT Berau.
h Other purchases from entities related to the Recapital group include insurance, office lease costs and general consulting costs.
Management has decided to vacate the premises that PT Berau leases from Recapital and is negotiating the termination of its office lease and associated arrangements with Recapital.
The terms of the remaining arrangements with Recapital are being reviewed and contracts will be renewed, renegotiated or terminated according to the best commercial interests of PT Berau i Mining services are provided by PT Darma Henwa, 39.3% owned by PT Bumi, both of which are understood to be controlled by the Bakrie Group.
These costs, which represented around 3% of total costs paid to mining contractors in 2012 and are not considered by management to have any unusual commercial terms.
j Until July 2011 an agency agreement existed for the marketing of coal in the Indonesian domestic market through PT Beraus subsidiary, Maple Holdings Limited, and Enercorp.
This transaction did not form part of the 2011 disclosure.
k The Group conducted transactions with an entity related to Nathaniel Rothschild and James Campbell, the sole activity being the supply of professional services.
Nathaniel Rothschild is claiming reimbursement of certain costs that have yet to be substantiated and approved.
l The Group conducted transactions with entities related to Nathaniel Rothschild, the activity being the payment of business expenses and professional services.
m PT Bank Pundi Indonesia Tbk is a bank related to Rosan Roeslani.
Term deposits lodged with PT Bank Pundi Indonesia Tbk have market related interest rates.
PT Berau provided a loan to PT Bukit Mutiara, a company related to Rosan Roeslani, in December 2011.
No interest was charged in 2011.
In 2012, interest was charged at a favourable rate which is below prevailing market conditions.
n PT Capitalinc arranged the purchase of equipment under finance leases to PT Berau.
o PT Recapital Advisors provided services in relation to the issue of a $500m bond in 2012. p Advances of $550,000 were provided to Rosan Roeslani in 2011.
Further details are included on page 51 in the Remuneration Report.
Bumi plc Annual Report Draft Page 102 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2011 2012 $m Note $m Restated Amounts outstanding at balance sheet date Assets Recapital group Prepaid leases a 20.1 12.0 Recapital group Unsecured loan to Bukit Mutiara b 7.1 6.9 Recapital group Cash and cash equivalents 0.9 3.9 Recapital group Office and mining services 0.9 1.2 Rosan Roeslani Advances 0.6 0.6 Liabilities Bakrie group Fuel supply 3.6 0.1 N Rothschild and J Campbell Professional services 0.3 1.2 Bakrie group Mining contractor services 1.8 2.3 Recapital group Transshipment costs 1.8 1.2 Recapital group Private jet hire 0.3 0.2 Recapital group Other 0.3 a The amounts paid represent prepaid leases for land acquired by the counterparty to enable the planned expansion of the mine by PT Berau and the development of commercial and community infrastructure post-mining.
The basis for the amounts paid has been reviewed by management who are of the opinion that the lease payments are supported by the economic value of the land to PT Berau for future mining operations.
The counterparty is determined to be related because: A key member of PT Berau management is also a director of the counterparty and An individual who holds shares indirectly in Bumi plc also indirectly holds the majority of shares in the counterparty.
b This amount represents an unsecured loan to the founder shareholder, PT Bukit Mutiara, a shareholder in Bumi plc until February 2013 in relation to tax due by PT Bukit Mutiara on IPO.
The term of the agreement was 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 and a demand has been sent to PT Bukit Mutiara for repayment of the loan which is now due.
The related party has certified the amount owing.
The interest charged to PT Bukit Mutiara is 2% which is below prevailing market conditions.
The loan agreement was signed on behalf of Berau by its former President Director who also controls PT Bukit Mutiara.
Other transactions where the ultimate counterparty or beneficiary is not clear Value of transactions 2011 2012 $m Note $m Restated Purchase of goods or services Mining Services a 7.8 2.2 Land compensation b 42.0 Haulage roads construction in progress c 79.1 22.0 Consulting services d 24.0 24.0 Fund management e 0.8 0.4 Acquisition of infrastructure companies f 4.0 19.0 a These costs include geological services, the provision of labour and vehicle rentals.
The commercial terms of these arrangements are currently being assessed by reference to other relevant third party contracts entered into by the company and external benchmarking.
b Land compensation costs represent amounts paid to a number of agents acting on behalf of PT Berau who compensate landowners for loss of earnings arising from PT Beraus mining operations gaining access to their land for mining purposes.
Management has not been able to satisfy itself that there is a proper business purpose for the amounts paid and has disclosed the payments as other exceptional costs.
c $7.8m in 2012 was incurred for advance payments for the extension of stockpile facilities, for which PT Berau has also entered into a long-term lease with the counterparty.
The basis for the amounts advanced represents completion of around 20% of the total construction needed to complete the project which has a proper business purpose.
The company is considering the commercial terms of the lease agreement which may potentially be at rates higher than management considers reasonable.
If that is proven to be the case, the terms of the lease will be renegotiated.
The remaining amounts represent costs attributed to haulage roads and other related construction in progress, paid to contractors.
d In 2010 PT Berau entered into a consulting contract with Velodrome Worldwide Ltd Velodrome, an entity based in Singapore.
Velodrome was included within the scope of the Macfarlanes investigation but it has not been possible to identify the ultimate owners of Velodrome.
In 2011, Bumi plc required that the term of the life of mine contract with Velodrome should be reduced and in 2012, based on a review of services provided, required termination of the contract with effect from 31 December 2012, without penalty.
The costs have been disclosed as other exceptional costs.
e In 2010 PT Berau entered into a fund management contract with Chateau Capital Chateau, and invested $75m.
Chateau is a Cayman Island based investment manager.
Chateau was included within the scope of the Macfarlanes investigation but it has not been possible to identify the ultimate owners of Chateau.
Whilst the investment in Chateau was recorded at nil on acquisition by Bumi plc, fund management fees have been paid for 2011 and part of 2012.
A demand has been issued for the repayment of the fund management fees and legal action is being pursued against Chateau.
Bumi plc Annual Report Draft Page 103 Notes to the Financial Statements continued f During 2011 and 2012 the former directors of PT Berau approved the acquisition of 100% of the equity in four companies.
The current management at PT Berau has valued these acquisitions and considers that they were acquired for an excessive consideration which did not have a clear business purpose.
It has therefore written off the excess consideration of $5m in full in the current year as other exceptional costs.
Although the former management of PT Berau certified that none of the vendors in these four transactions were related parties, in line with its extensive review of the financial position of PT Berau, current management is seeking to confirm the identity of the vendors and the ultimate beneficiaries of the transactions.
2011 2012 $m Note $m Restated Amounts outstanding at balance sheet date Infrastructure 7.8 Mining services 3.3 0.1 Restricted cash a 124.0 101.0 a As set out in Note 19 of the Financial Statements above, at 31 December 2012 certain of the Companys bank deposits amounting to $124m had been pledged by former PT Berau directors for the benefit of third parties where the ultimate beneficiary is not clear.
Management believes that making these pledges was not in the best interests of PT Berau nor on commercially acceptable terms.
It has since secured release of the pledges from the bank involved.
It has also received advice that at least some of the counterparties may be related to Recapital.
Compensation for key management personnel In accordance with IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
Disclosure of Bumi plc Directors emoluments, pension entitlements, share options and long term incentive plan awards required by the Companies Act 2006 and those specified for audit by Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 are included in the Remuneration Report.
Compensation for key management excluding any Director executive and non-executive of the Group included in the Remuneration Report was as follows: Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $m $m Wages and salaries 3.2 1.4 Share based payments 1.0 Termination benefits Total compensation 4.2 1.4 4.
Dividends PT Bukit Mutiara, a 3% shareholder in PT Berau Coal Energy Tbk and an entity controlled by Rosan Roeslani, received a dividend in 2012 of $0.8m 2011 - $0.4m on the same terms and conditions as all other shareholders in PT Berau Coal Energy Tbk.
Bumi plc Annual Report Draft Page 104 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 32.
Principal subsidiaries Country of Subsidiary undertakings incorporation Business Class of share Effective ownership % 2012 2011 1 PT Berau Coal Energy Tbk Indonesia Coal Ordinary 84.7 84.7 PT Berau Coal Indonesia Coal Ordinary 76.2 76.2 PT Pelayaran Sanditia Perkasa Maritim Indonesia Marine Ordinary 84.7 84.7 transportation PT Mutiara Tanjung Lestari Indonesia Mining services Ordinary 84.7 84.7 Vallar Investments UK Ltd UK Management Ordinary 100 100 Services Co Vallar Holding Company Ltd Jersey Holding Co Ordinary 100 100 Vallar Ltd Jersey Holding Co Ordinary 100 100 1 A full listing of the subsidiaries of PT Berau Coal Energy Tbk can be found in their latest financial statements that are available from the Bumi plc Company nd Secretary, 2 Floor, 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7HJ.
Subsequent events Release of pledged bank accounts As at 31 December 2012, $124m was pledged as security against liabilities outside the Group 2011: $101m.
During April 2013, all such pledges were released see Note 19.
Proposed separation transaction Heads of Terms were agreed on 12 February 2013 for the proposed separation of the Bakrie Group as shareholders in Bumi, and the disposal of the Companys 29.2% interest in PT Bumi.
$50m was deposited in escrow by the Bakrie Group in respect of this transaction.
Bumi plc Annual Report Draft Page 105 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.
Reclassifications and restatements The extensive review of the financial position of PT Berau identified expenditures for which there is no clear business purpose in 2011 and pledges over cash.
The primary financial statements are restated as shown below.
34.1 Consolidated Income Statement Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2011 Note 1 Note 2 2011 $m $m $m $m Reported Restated Revenue 1,407 1,407 Cost of sales 921 45 876 Gross profit 486 45 531 General and administrative expenses 96 96 Distribution and marketing expenses 44 44 Costs associated with corporate transactions 66 66 Other exceptional costs 45 4 49 Operating profit 280 4 276 Share of loss of associate 39 39 Profit before finance items and income tax 241 4 237 Finance income 13 13 Finance costs 83 83 Movement on financial instruments at 286 286 fair value through profit or loss Net finance costs 356 356 Loss before income tax 115 4 119 Income tax 167 20 187 Loss for the year 282 20 4 306 Loss profit attributable to: Owners of the parent 319 15 3 337 Non-controlling interests 37 5 1 31 Loss per ordinary share $$$$ Basic 1.66 0.08 0.02 1.76 Diluted 1.66 0.08 0.02 1.76 Note: 1.
$45m of expenditures for which no clear business purpose could be identified have been reclassified from cost of sales to other exceptional costs.
Income tax has been adjusted to reflect the impact of this reclassification.
$4m of expenditures attributed to assets under construction were written off and classified as other exceptional costs.
Bumi plc Annual Report Draft Page 106 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.2 Consolidated Balance Sheet Restatements 31 December 31 December 2011 Note 1 Note 2 Note 3 Note 4 Note 5 2011 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Reported Restated Non-current assets Goodwill 1,320 14 1,334 Exploration and evaluation assets 4 4 Property, plant and equipment 3,039 20 4 3,015 Investment in associate 2,022 2,022 Other non-current assets Total non-current assets 6,385 14 20 4 6,375 Current assets Inventories 30 30 Trade and other receivables 495 495 Restricted cash 101 101 Cash and cash equivalents 608 101 507 Total current assets 1,133 1,133 Total assets 7,518 14 20 4 7,508 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 625 20 605 Borrowings 85 85 Current taxation 126 20 146 Total current liabilities 836 20 20 836 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 745 745 Deferred tax liabilities 1,277 14 1,291 Provisions 25 25 Total non-current liabilities 2,047 14 2,061 Total liabilities 2,883 14 20 20 2,897 Equity Ordinary shares 4 4 Share premium 141 141 Merger reserve 2,248 2,248 Retained earnings 1,551 3 15 1,533 Total attributable to owners 3,944 3 15 3,926 of the parent Non-controlling interests 691 1 5 685 Total equity 4,635 4 20 4,611 Total equity and liabilities 7,518 14 20 4 7,508 Note: 1.
Included within the acquisition balance sheet were $31m of assets under construction for which there is no clear business purpose.
This has been adjusted and a corresponding increase in mining properties has been recorded as shown in note 14.
As a result, an increase in deferred tax liability of $14m has been recorded and a corresponding increase in goodwill is shown.
Capital accruals included $20m in respect of construction in progress for which there is no clear business purpose and the balance has been reversed.
In 2011, following Bumi plcs acquisition of PT Berau, a further $4m of construction in progress was identified as having no clear business purpose and has been written off.
The reclassification of $45m of cost of sales to other exceptional costs has resulted in an additional tax provision of $20m.
Cash and cash equivalent of $101m were pledged as security to persons outside the Group.
This has been reclassified as restricted cash.
Bumi plc Annual Report Draft Page 107 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.3 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Restatements Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2011 Note 1 Note 2 Note 3 2011 $m $m $m $m $m Reported Restated Net cash flows generated from operations 435 20 45 460 Other exceptional costs 49 49 Interest paid 63 63 Tax paid 255 255 Net cash used in generated from operating activities 117 20 4 93 Cash flows from investing activities Interest received 5 5 1 Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 472 47 425 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 66 20 4 42 Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure 4 4 Movement in restricted cash 54 54 Dividends received from associate 30 30 Net cash used in generated from investing activities 437 20 101 4 360 Cash flows before financing activities 554 101 453 Cash flows from financing activities Purchase of non-controlling interests 214 214 Proceeds from borrowings 5 5 Repayment of borrowings 60 60 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests in subsidiaries 12 12 Net cash generated used in from financing activities 281 281 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 273 101 172 Opening cash and cash equivalents 324 324 Effect of foreign exchange rates 11 11 Closing cash and cash equivalents 608 101 507 Note: 1.
Capital accruals of $20m at 31 December 2011 in respect of construction in progress for which there is no clear business purpose have been reversed.
Cash and cash equivalents that were pledged to persons outside the Group amounted to $47m on acquisition of PT Berau and a further $54m was pledged in the year.
These amounts have been reclassified to restricted cash.
Expenditure attributed to construction in progress for which there is no clear business purpose of $4m has been written off and classified as other exceptional costs.
$49m of other exceptional costs is adjusted to arrive at net cash generated from operating activities.
Bumi plc Annual Report Draft Page 108 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.4 Reconciliation of loss before tax to cash flows from operations Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2011 Note 1 Note 2 Note 3 2011 $m $m $m $m $m Reported Restated Loss before income tax 115 4 119 Add back deduct : Depreciation and amortisation 120 120 Movement on financial instruments 286 286 at fair value through profit or loss Other exceptional costs 4 45 49 Share of loss from associate 39 39 Net finance costs excluding derivative movements 70 70 Foreign exchange losses gains 11 11 in operating costs Increase in inventories 10 10 Increase in receivables 56 56 Increase in payables 129 20 109 Increase in provisions 18 18 Deferred stripping 35 35 Cash flows generated from operations 435 20 45 460 Note: 1.
$49m of other exceptional costs is adjusted to arrive at net cash used in operating activities.
Expenditure where no clear business purpose could be established and classified within costs of sales of $45m has been reclassified to other exceptional costs.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 109
