Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union, have been followed subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors Statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Governance Code Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Remuneration Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and result of the Group and Company: and the Directors report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Each of the Directors considers that the Annual Report and financial statement, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model, and strategy.
By order of the Board Nick von Schirnding Scott Merrillees Director Director 31 May 2013 Bumi plc Annual Report Page 59
