Reserves and Resources Reserves and resources are reported in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, December 2004 the JORC Code, which represents current best practice for reporting reserves and resources.
The JORC Code requires the use of reasonable assumptions, including the use of projected long term commodity prices, in calculating reserve estimates.
Reserves and resources information in the tables below has been prepared by the Group, based on the JORC report compiled by Competent Persons as defined by JORC.
Each Competent Person has had a relevant estimation experience and is a member of a recognised professional body whose members are bound by a professional code of ethics.
The reserves and resources at 31 December 2012 have been calculated by the Group, based on the JORC report dated 31 December 2011 the latest JORC report available as at that date, with actual production for the year deducted to arrive at the balances at 31 December 2012.
The JORC process takes time and a final report is usually issued in the second half of the year, for reserves and resources as at the previous year end.
Reserves The reserve figures in the following table represent the Life of Mine reserves on a 100% basis, which extend beyond existing licence periods including CCoWs for coal operations.
Metric units are used throughout.
The figures used in the calculations are often more precise than the rounded numbers shown in the tables, hence small differences might result if the calculations are repeated directly using the figures in these tables.
Thermal Coal Bumi plc Tonnes Marketable share ROM Yield tonnes Quality Mine % Classification millions % millions kcal kg PT Berau Lati 76.2% Proven 77 100% 77 Probable 100 100% 100 Total 177 100% 177 4,990 Binungan 76.2% Proven 79 100% 79 Probable 162 100% 162 Total 241 100% 241 4,950 Sambarata 76.2% Proven 34 100% 34 Probable 36 100% 36 Total 70 100% 70 5,760 PT Berau Total 488 100% 488 5,080 Resources The following table contains details of mineralisation that the Board believe has a reasonable prospect of being economically extracted in the future, some of which has not yet been classified as Proven or Probable Reserves.
This material is defined as Mineral Resources under the JORC Code.
Estimates of such material are based largely on geological information with only preliminary consideration of the modifying factors mining, economic, etc..
While in the judgement of the Competent Person there are realistic expectations that all or part of the Mineral Resources will eventually become Proven or Probable Reserves, there is no guarantee that this will occur, as the result depends on further technical and economic studies, and economic conditions in the future.
As in the case of reserves, estimates are completed using or testing against Bumi plcs long term pricing and market forecasts.
Resources include the coal reserves disclosed previously, i. e. resources are not additional to the coal reserves.
Thermal Coal Quality Bumi plc Measured Indicated Inferred Total kcal kg share million million million million million Mine % tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes PT Berau Lati 76.2% 125 229 175 530 5,090 Binungan 76.2% 440 685 242 1,367 4,630 Sambarata 76.2% 72 103 64 239 5,920 637 1,017 481 2,136 4,890 Bumi plc Annual Report Page 18 Health, Safety, Environment and Communities Throughout 2012 we have maintained focus on our HSEC programme.
Working to raise our standards to international expectations, build internal capacity through better understanding and investing in key areas with a focus on safety The Companys overall governance practices relating to HSEC are supported by the values set out in the Bumi plc Code of Conduct which was adopted in 2011.
Our ambition and approach to HSEC is expressed through our Group Statement of Intent set out below.
This is used as the guiding influence for our HSEC programme.
Group Statement of Intent Access to mineral resources is fundamental to global economic growth: their exploitation in increasingly challenging environments is inevitable.
The political, economic and regulatory regimes in many of the emerging economies with high mineral wealth do not yet have a well-developed infrastructure of HSEC regulation and control over mining practices.
We believe it is the duty of international mining companies to take responsibility for, and to support local managements aspirations regarding, HSEC.
Bumi plc wants to innovate and succeed in developing sustainable mining practices that help to create local social and economic capacity but at the same time conserve and protect social and natural heritage.
This will be challenging and will take time.
It will require us in Bumi plc to develop a broader view of performance, achieve inclusive governance and put greater focus on long term goals achieved through short to medium term milestones.
To enable us to achieve this it is our intention to operate under the following principles: Enable our operating companies to build the capacity and understanding that is necessary for local decisions and practices to deliver international standards on a consistent basis.
Work in collaboration and partnership with government, contractors and communities to achieve a shared governance framework that reflects the interaction of responsibilities and dependencies.
Exercise a stewardship-based decision model recognising that our activity at any asset is temporary and that the social and natural environments have to be sustained after mining has stopped.
Apply global governance that has, at its centre, adoption of local solutions that understand local needs and priorities.
HSE&C governance structure Consistent with our intention, the HSEC governance model centres on the Company providing the over-arching framework of policy and guidance with local implementation of procedures and decisions being the responsibility of the operating company.
The Board supervises the HSEC programme through the HSEC Committee see page 39.
This was established in 2011 and has met three times during 2012.
Tony Redman, an experienced mining professional is the technical advisor HSEC Advisor on the HSEC Committee his biography is on page 40.
The CEO has executive responsibility for HSEC together with the President Director of PT Berau.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary is the secretary to the HSEC Committee and assists the Committee and the CEO in the discharge of their duties.
HSEC governance arrangements will continue to receive focus in 2013.
In addition to overall HSEC governance particular attention will also be paid to developing: Contractor management arrangements.
Under the PT Berau operating model, contractors are responsible for conducting all mining and supporting activities including barging, transhipment and shipping.
It is therefore essential that we achieve a suitable governance model to ensure HSEC performance standards are met and to be able to demonstrate appropriate level of contractor management and control.
PT Berau started work in 2012 to understand how governance arrangements needed to be enhanced, with particular focus on governance over safety performance with the primary mining contractors.
Engagement and dialogue with key stakeholders is essential to ensure necessary understanding of their requirements and perceptions and, where appropriate, reach consensus on plans and actions.
PT Berau has arrangements for stakeholder engagement including through: a The community development team responsible for maintaining scheduled engagement with 38 local villages and tribes: b Contractors via dialogue and review processes by the operational management team and PT Berau supervisors: c The workers union of which approximately 70% of employees are members.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 19 Health, Safety, Environment and Communities continued Priorities for 2012 and 2013 The HSEC programme began with a gap analysis performed in July-September 2011.
This work showed that PT Berau was operating above the typical standards on HSEC for mining companies in Indonesia.
It also showed that there was a shortfall against international expectations with a primary focus on compliance rather than risk and more diligence needed to implement and enforce defined procedures.
Further to the governance priorities outlined above, safety management and community development were highlighted as priorities in 2012 due to the potential for these areas to influence the ability of PT Berau to achieve its business plans.
Going beyond environmental compliance to deliver stewardship was a necessary step and similarly health management arrangements were identified to need further development in order to meet international standards.
The action plan for 2012 reflected these priorities.
The same priorities remain going forward in 2013 with focus on continuing implementation.
Safety Headlines No fatal events Six reported Lost Time Injuries Safety Improvement Programme defined based on findings of two independent reviews Increased engagement with primary mining contractors Group Practice Guide approved by PT Berau Board of Directors and Bumi plc Board Safety training conducted with updated materials Good safety management is critical to the continuation and efficiency of operations.
Following four fatalities in 2011, specific remediation steps have been taken but in addition PT Berau commissioned two independent reviews of safety management arrangements early in 2012 to gain a better understanding of potential causes of incidents.
One of these was conducted by an international safety team, the other by an Indonesian university.
The findings were consistent in highlighting that the following areas needed improvement: The level and extent of safety skills and supervision in particular in contractor and sub-contract or organisations.
In response, PT Berau approved investment in the development of a training centre at Samburakat and safety course materials in 2012.
Training of contractors is planned to commence in 2013.
Standards of tools and equipment in particular cases where tools were handmade or modified.
A maintenance procedure has been developed as well as a training module which will be rolled out in 2013.
As equipment certification systems do not exist in Indonesia, the possibility of using international systems is being assessed.
The quality of safety reporting from contractors including reporting of lost time injuries as well as other safety indicators.
An HSEC data programme has started and has included an independent review of reporting processes.
Recommendations from this review are in the process of being implemented.
The extent and methods of governance over contractors on safety.
PT Berau has instigated more collaboration and dialogue with contractors as first steps towards enhancing existing governance processes to enable greater levels of intervention by the PT Berau HSE team to address areas of safety concern.
In addition, in line with the overall HSEC approach, a Group Practice Guide providing minimum expected operating practices has been prepared in line with international standards and approved by the PT Berau Board of Directors and HSEC Committee during 2012.
Work is ongoing to amend and develop local Standard Operating Procedures to support this Group Practice Guide.
It is planned that Lati will be a pilot site for implementation of all safety improvement work.
Implementation of the Group Practice Guide will be subject to review by Bumi plc during the course of 2013.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 20 Health, Safety, Environment and Communities continued As stated in our 2011 report, the quality of safety performance data was an area of focus in 2012 and has been the subject of independent review.
This review has identified differences between definitions used by Indonesian government and international standards on safety reporting, which the most notable are: Fatalities are only recorded if they occur within 24 hours of the incident: Lost time events involving contractors are only recorded where a second day shift of lost time has occurred PT Berau goes beyond reporting standards by recording the first day of lost time for employees : Only safety events at operational mining areas are captured for reporting to the government: Capture of other safety events, including medical treatment cases, is generally not practiced.
PT Berau is in the process of aligning safety data definitions to international standards and discussions are underway with the primary mining contractors.
For 2012, safety reporting is in accordance with Indonesian standards: it is expected that the change to international standards will cause an increase in the number of reported incidents over the coming few years.
Changing contractor practices will take time as it conflicts with the statutory reporting presented to the Indonesian government and is not current recognised practice.
Safety Performance 1 Performance Data 2012 Fatalities 0 Lost Time Incidents 6 2 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 0.15 1.
Performance data includes PT Berau employees and contractors.
Lost time injury frequency rate is per 1,000,000 working hours.
Half of the lost time incidents resulted from faulty tools and equipment and the remaining from unsafe working practices and road safety incidents.
Internal investigations have been performed for all reported cases, and results from cases relating to mining operations have been shared with the government.
Steps taken to prevent recurrence include, for example: repairing identified faulty tools and equipment and socialisation of relevant safety working procedures.
Community Headlines Investment completed in line with the 5-year Community Action Plan which ended in 2012.
Independent engagement programme completed involving 38 villages.
Ongoing discussions with Parapatan village regarding proposed mining activities following local demonstrations in 2012.
Government inauguration in January 2013 of the resettlement programme involving 85 households.
Group Practice Guide approved by PT Berau Board of Directors and Bumi plc Board.
The Group is committed to contributing to local and regional development to benefit the communities affected by its operations.
This is achieved through employment, provision of infrastructure and assets for public use.
A Group Practice Guide approved by the PT Berau Board of Directors and Bumi plc HSEC Committee has been designed in line with international standards.
This provides a framework guiding decisions and procedures relating to community interaction including, for example: community projects contribution, donations and resettlement work.
PT Beraus work to align local Standard Operating Procedures to the Group Practice Guide is ongoing, however the Guide has started to be applied during 2012.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 21 Health, Safety, Environment and Communities continued Community Development The Community Development investment in 2012 included commitments made through the Community Action Plan, which was developed through engagement with communities around the mining areas and agreed with the local government.
Each Community Action Plan covers a period of five years, and is formally agreed with local government and local communities.
2012 marked the end of a 5 year period.
Discussions on the next 5 year Community Action Plan are still ongoing with government.
As a result a new one year Plan for 2013, that focuses in the same areas of education and knowledge, health and nutrition, culture and socio-economic empowerment, is awaiting final approval.
The majority of PT Beraus community contribution has been delivered through the Dharma Bhakti Berau Coal Foundation YDBBC managed by employees of PT Berau.
The Foundation receives small levels of contribution from other parties but approximately 98% was contributed by PT Berau in 2012.
Community Investment Summary Amount Amount invested 2012 invested 2011 Category $million $million 1 Community Development Projects 1.7 1.6 2 Donations 0.7 0.4 3 Total 2.4 2.0 1.
This includes monthly contributions to the Community Development Fund run through the YDBBC Foundation and in-kind contributions e. g. fuel purchased for the village electrification project.
Investment in infrastructure projects is excluded.
This includes only those donations made through the External Relations team for community purposes and excludes donations where the primary objective is commercial or self-promoting.
It includes donations made on an entirely voluntary basis and some which are expected to be paid by Berau by the government but where Berau can determine the amounts.
The majority of the donations made in 2012 comprised voluntary payments.
2011 reported investment of $5.5m included land compensation and acquisition costs of $2.3m which are now excluded from the Community Investment.
Despite a long history of strong relations and ongoing engagement and investment there are continuing and increasing pressures for higher levels of contribution.
It is not possible for PT Berau to meet all demands, and in particular those which are in addition to the agreed Community Action Plan.
PT Berau has therefore taken a number of proactive steps to develop a new approach to community investment planning that achieves best value.
Steps taken in 2012 include: Commissioning an independent review of 38 villages within PT Beraus concession area to establish the current baseline position and complete stakeholder mapping.
Piloting development of output based measures for three major projects.
Ongoing discussions with government to establish new Community Action Plans based on measuring inputs as well as outputs.
Resettlement Resettlement programmes are underway for three neighbourhoods in two kampong villages one in Sambakungan and two in Meraang.
Initial plans identified 110 households to be resettled: further review against the qualification criteria identified 85 separate households to be eligible.
Engagement and consultation has been performed in 2011 and 2012 with the affected neighbourhoods resulting in a signed expression of interest to complete resettlement between April 2011 and March 2012.
Construction of the houses in the three neighbourhoods is delayed but each neighbourhood is over 80% complete as at end December 2012 with overall completion expected in mid-2013.
The delay reflects a number of factors including time required to reach agreement over plot allocations and housing layouts.
An opening ceremony for the three resettled neighbourhoods was performed at Lati in January 2013 officiated by the Indonesian Ministry of Social Welfare Co-ordination.
Environment Headlines Maintained environmental compliance Established an Energy Management Team Two spill events showing need for better focus on fuel and materials handling procedures Bumi plc Annual Report Page 22 Health, Safety, Environment and Communities continued Environmental stewardship is an important objective for the Group recognising the sensitivity of the natural environments in which the Group is operating.
PT Berau has continued to operate in compliance with the environmental conditions of its mining and shipping permits and maintained ISO14001 certification for all operations.
A green PROPER rating was awarded to each of the Berau mines in 2012 which reflects the second highest standard of achievement.
In order to meet the Groups Statement of Intent it is however necessary for us to go further than compliance.
Initial work commenced in late 2012 to begin planning to move towards a stewardship based approach in two areas energy management and land management, including biodiversity.
Energy management is one of the additional criteria necessary for achievement of the gold PROPER award which is the highest category in Indonesia.
Energy and related carbon impact An Energy Management team, comprising representatives from the departments that influence energy use, has been established to plan and monitor energy saving and efficiency programmes across the mining and shipping operations.
Each relevant department has completed energy use studies to identify scope for energy saving.
There are monthly meetings with the primary mining contractors to monitor fuel usage.
Work is underway to achieve consistent and appropriate energy reporting data from contractors as a basis for setting targets for energy saving and to enable reporting on Group energy consumption and related carbon emissions in 2013.
Land management and biodiversity Land disturbance and revegetation for mining operations is controlled through the environmental permit conditions which require a fund to be set aside the Land Reclamation Bond that can be recovered when revegetation is approved, by the Government, to be complete.
Progress against the 2012 Mine Plan shows some local delays in mine development at Binungan and Lati as a result of delays in local permitting and operational decisions.
However in terms of revegetation, the planned rate of restoration has been met in 2012 see table in line with the intended after use set out in the Mine Closure Plan.
Land management Cumulative totals 2012 Actual ha 2012 Actual ha 2012 Plan 2011 Actual Land disturbed 918 7,621 8,193 6,704 1 Land revegetated 216 2,542 2,536 2,327 1.
This measures when the first crop cover seeded and is in accordance with Indonesian standards.
The Mine Closure Plan, approved by the Ministry of Mining and Energy Resources in September 2011, centres on achieving sustained socioeconomic development in addition to environmental conservation.
As a result, the Plan comprises areas for forestry and non-forestry use as designated by the Ministry of Forestry and local governments.
None of the forestry areas are currently classified as Protected Forest.
Under existing regulations, there are no specific requirements on the level of conservation at areas designated for forestry use.
However, PT Berau undertakes work to restore biodiversity in these areas and will be reviewing the scope of revegetation programmes with a view to extending the standards of environmental conservation within the concession.
We will also seek to bring greater focus onto environmental restoration alongside the need to support the socio-economic development goals of the government and PT Berau will begin consultations with the government in 2013 to progress this.
Environmental incidents We were disappointed to have two reportable spill events in 2012: 1.
An ammonium nitrate spill approximately 2,000 tons at Lati Beaching Point on the Berau River.
For a number of weeks, as a precautionary measure, Berau provided fresh drinking water to villages close to the area.
No sustained impact to the communities or ecosystem has been identified.
A fuel spill approximately 17 tons at Suaran Port.
The spilled fuel was removed in accordance with the disaster recovery plans: as a result there was no significant impact.
Both spills were reported to the local government and the Ministry of the Environment.
Internal investigations were performed and water quality monitoring was performed within statutory requirements.
Explanatory information had been provided to the government and there are no outstanding regulatory matters relating to these events.
Employees Headlines No labour disputes or strikes.
A first human rights assessment completed.
Internship programme brings in 15 new graduates.
New procedures approved for monitoring occupational health.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 23 Health, Safety, Environment and Communities continued The development and wellbeing of our people is important to ensure we develop the capacity we need to meet our business goals and play a key role in the local communities where we have operations.
As at the end of 2012, the Group had more than 800 employees and 13,500 contractor and sub-contractor personnel.
Contractor personnel work across coal hauling and processing, maintenance, shipping and logistics as well as catering and wider service support.
The contractor headcount has grown by more than 24% in the year.
Through 2012, PT Berau maintained its established employment policies recognising local legal requirements.
The Bumi plc Code of Conduct continues to form the foundation for our management of our workforce as well as setting the expectation of individual responsibility.
This has been adopted by PT Berau through a local Code of Ethics: all employees are required to sign receipt and acknowledgement of this Code.
The whistle blowing policy is being developed in a local Standard Operating Procedure and a whistle blowing helpline is being established that can accommodate the language, technology and cultural conditions.
A human rights assessment was commissioned in 2012 by PT Berau focused on recruitment matters.
Further assessment work will be undertaken.
Skill shortages and loss of staff to competitors in the mining industry is a key issue for all mining companies in Indonesia.
PT Berau has maintained its one year internship program for graduates in mine engineering, geology, civil engineering, forestry, environmental, economics, and sociology.
In 2012 places were provided for 15 graduates.
In addition, approximately 100 students were given 2-3 month work placements.
The training centre developed at Samburakat will be used for on-going training and development of employees and contractors going forward.
This will be an important step to ensuring the continued development of the workforce and should aid retention.
The Group recognises the right of its employees to freely associate and join labour unions and maintains active relationships with those unions.
In PT Berau there is a single union of which almost 70% of employees are members.
There have been no cases of labour strikes or employee disruption occurring in 2012 in the Group.
The Group recognises the increasing importance of managing health issues within the workforce.
A Standard Operating Procedure to identify occupational health cases was approved by the PT Berau Board of Directors in 2012.
This focuses on achieving greater awareness and health monitoring, and will start to be implemented in 2013.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 24
