Our operating model Jupiters operating model is aligned to the business model Investment Effective efficient outperformance distribution operations We have a single investment platform While we operate across a number of We operate a single infrastructure platform, comprising 39 fund managers who manage different geographies and markets, each designed to support a growing business a range of funds for a variety of clients.
of which has its own characteristics, we and its governance requirements while Private client assets are managed separately maintain a consistent brand and distribution implementing operational efficiencies by 13 dedicated private client managers.
approach and structure our distribution where appropriate, such as outsourcing Our investment philosophy seeks to efforts on a product neutral basis.
generate investment outperformance allows us to maximise our distribution against relevant benchmarks over the reach and the ability of different clients This platform allows the fund management, medium to long term without exposing to access our investment expertise.
distribution and marketing areas the our clients to unnecessary risk.
appropriate tools with which to do their Our current UK distribution effort is jobs, provides executive management with While our fund managers work as a closely primarily focused on intermediaries, with the performance and risk monitoring knit team, sharing stock ideas and debating our advertising effort designed to build information required to manage the business market prospects, we believe that each brand awareness with both these agents and and supports the requirements of external manager has individual responsibility for end clients.
Our market share is particularly stakeholders such as clients, shareholders their own portfolios and is therefore held strong among IFAs and on fund platforms.
accountable for the investment performance Given the predominance of bank of the funds they manage.
We also believe distribution internationally, our approach The scalable nature of our platform ensures that fund management is an industry where outside the UK is focused on building that our shareholders share in the benets experience counts and we are always looking relationships with wealth managers in of the revenue growth and cash generation to balance the requirement for experience our chosen territories, such as France, associated with increases in AUM.
with the necessary focus on the Germany and Switzerland.
What differentiates us Clear focus Investment culture Track record Scalable platform Shareholder value We have a clear focus Our distinct investment We are well-established Our scalable operating Our aim of holding net on the management of culture focuses on as one of the leading platform and consistent cash over the cycle mutual funds for retail allowing talented fund groups in the UK focus on business with a robust balance and institutional clients.
fund managers the retail market due to efficiency allows us sheet has seen us pay Our strategy is to offer freedom to pursue consistent investment to grow our revenues down 205m of debt products where we can their own individual outperformance, strong without having to post-Listing, while deliver superior returns investment approach.
brand and a multiincrease our xed costs increasing dividends to our clients over the This culture has helped channel distribution at the same rate.
This to shareholders to medium to long term.
We have a allows us to provide 8.8p per share.
record of investment record of attracting ows attractive returns to outperformance with across the market cycle, our shareholders.
of our with net inows of assets above median 6.6bn over the last five over three years.
This has allowed us to grow our revenues signicantly ahead of comparable market growth.
8 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business review A diversied asset base Split of AUM at 31 December 2012 26.3bn 111 4 4 3 2 3 2 2 Asset class Product type Asset geography 1 77% Equities 1 79% Mutual funds 1 40% UK 2 23% Fixed income 2 12% Segregated mandates 2 37% Global 3 7% Private clients 3 18% Europe 4 2% Investment trusts 4 5% Other AUM breakdown 100% European UK growth Discretionary International ESG SRI Climate change 31.4% 17.0% 12.0% 9.7% 7.4% 7.4% 3.9% 3.8% 3.3% 2.1% 2.0% Emerging Multi Fund of funds UK income Fixed income markets assets Financials This chart shows the breakdown of Jupiters AUM as at 31 December 2012 by investment franchise, demonstrating a broad spread across strategies, providing a positive level of diversication within our business model.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 9
