Shareholder information General shareholder enquiries Dividends Enquiries relating to shareholdings, such as the transfer of Dividends can be paid by BACS directly into a UK bank shares, change of name or address, lost share certicates account, with the tax voucher being sent to the shareholders ordividend cheques, should be referred to the Companys address.
A dividend mandate form is available from Equiniti Registrar, Equiniti, using the details below: or at shareview.
Equiniti Record date: 6 July 2012 Aspect House Final date for return of DRIP mandate forms: 12 July 2012 Spencer Road Payment date: 2 August 2012 Lancing Interim dividend payable: January 2013 West Sussex BN99 6DA The ADR local payment date will be approximately five business days after the proposed dividend payment date Tel: 0871 384 2839.
Calls to this number are charged at forordinary shareholders.
8pper minute from a BT landline, other telephony provider costs may vary.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Dividends payable in foreign currencies Mondayto Friday.
Equiniti are able to pay dividends to shareholders in over 30 countries worldwide through the Overseas Payment Service.
Please dial 44 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the An administrative fee will be deducted from each dividend UK or see help.
co. uk for additional information.
Further details can be obtained from Equiniti oronline at shareview.
American Depositary Receipts Burberry has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Dividend Reinvestment Plan Receipt ADR programme to enable US investors to The Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP enables purchase ADRs in US Dollars.
Each ADR represents shareholders to use their dividends to buy further Burberry two Burberry ordinary shares.
Full details of the DRIP can be obtained from Equiniti.
If shareholders would like their final 2012 and future dividends For queries relating to ADRs in Burberry, please use the to qualify for the DRIP, completed application forms must be following contact details: returned to Equiniti by 12 July 2012.
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas Duplicate accounts c o American Stock Transfer & Trust Company Shareholders who have more than one account due to Peck Slip Station inconsistency in account details may avoid duplicate mailings PO Box 2050 by contacting Equiniti and requesting the amalgamation of New York, NY 10272-2050 their share accounts.
Tel: toll free within the US: 1 800 301 3517 Tel: International: 1 718 921 8137 Electronic communication Email enquiries: DB@amstock.
com Shareholders may at any time choose to receive all shareholder documentation in electronic form via the Annual General Meeting internet, rather than in paper format.
Shareholders who Burberrys Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday, decide to register for this option will receive an email 12 July 2012 at 9.30am at the ofces of Slaughter and May: each time a shareholder document is published on the internet.
Shareholders who wish to receive documentation One Bunhill Row in electronic form should register online at shareview.
London EC1Y 8YY Equiniti offers a range of shareholder information and services online at shareview.
A textphone facility for those with The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the hearing difficulties is available by calling: 0871 384 2255. business to be conducted at the meeting, is available Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT on the Companys website at burberryplc.
landline, other telephony provider costs may vary.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Please call The voting results for the 2012 Annual General 44 121 415 7028 if calling from outside the UK.
Meeting willbe accessible on the Companys website at burberryplc.
com shortly after the meeting.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 151 Financial calendar Unauthorised brokers boiler room scams First quarter trading update 11 July 2012 Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited Annual General Meeting 12 July 2012 advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free First half trading update 11 October 2012 company reports.
These are typically from overseas-based Interim results announcement 7 November 2012 brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them Third quarter trading update 15 January 2013 what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US Second half trading update 17 April 2013 or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known Preliminary results announcement 21 May 2013 as boiler rooms.
Registered ofce If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Burberry Group plc Horseferry House Make sure you get the correct name of the person Horseferry Road andorganisation London Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA SW1P 2AW before getting involved by visiting: fsa.
uk register Registered in England and Wales Report the matter to the FSA either by calling Registered Number 03458224 0845 606 1234 or visiting: fsa.
com consumerinformation If the calls persist, hang up.
Share dealing Burberry Group plc shares can be traded through most If you deal with an unauthorised rm, you will not be banks, building societies or stock brokers.
Equiniti offers eligibleto receive payment under the Financial Services atelephone and internet dealing service.
The FSA can be contacted by conditions and details of the commission charges are completing an online form at fsa.
uk Pages Doing available on request.
For telephone dealing please telephone 08456 037 037 Details of any share dealing facilities that the company between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and endorses will be included in company mailings.
Shareholders will need their reference number which More detailed information can be found on the FSA website can befound on their share certicate.
ShareGift Website Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value This Annual Report and other information about Burberry, of which makes them uneconomic to sell, may wish to including share price information and details of results consider donating their shares to charity through ShareGift, announcements, are available on the Companys website a donation scheme operated by The Orr Mackintosh at burberryplc.
AShareGift donation form can be obtained from Equiniti.
Further information is available at sharegift.
Share price information The latest Burberry Group plc share price is available ontheCompanys website at burberryplc.
Disclaimer The purpose of this document is to provide information to the members of Burberry Group plc.
This document contains certain statements that are forward-looking statements.
They appear in a number of places throughout this document and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and those of our ofcers, directors and employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business we operate.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this document and unless otherwise required by applicable law the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this document should be construed as a profit forecast.
The Company and its directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this document save as would arise under English law.
This document does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for or otherwise acquire or dispose of any Burberry Group plc shares, in the UK, or in the US, or under the US Securities Act 1933 or any other jurisdiction.
152 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 Executive Team Executive directors Angela Ahrendts Chief Executive officer Stacey Cartwright Executive Vice President Chief Financial officer Senior Management Christopher Bailey Donald Kohler Chief Creative officer Senior Vice President Planning John Douglas Chief Technology officer Andrew Maag President, Europe Fabrizio Fabbro Senior Vice President Michael Mahony Product Development Chief Corporate Affairs officer General Counsel Alessandro Fabrini Senior Vice President Sarah Manley Licensing Chief Marketing officer Carol Fairweather Matt McEvoy Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Group Finance Strategy, New Business Development & Licensing Emilio Foa Chief Financial officer, Europe Karin Ong Senior Vice President Chief Operations officer, Asia Pacic Emerging Markets Pascal Perrier Marco Gentile President, Asia Pacic Chief Operating officer, Europe Senior Vice President Paul Price Southern Europe Chief Merchandising officer Stephen Gilbert Steve Sacks Senior Vice President Chief Customer officer Architecture Reg Sindall Jan Heppe Executive Vice President Chief Operations officer, Americas Corporate Resources William Kim Mark Taylor Senior Vice President Chief People officer Retail, Americas Eugenia Ulasewicz President, Americas Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 153 154 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 155 156 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 67 Burberry.
