Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 214 215 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 1: Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of lloyds Banking Group plc have been prepared in accordance with international Financial Reporting standards iFRs as adopted by the European union Eu.
iFRs comprises accounting standards prefixed iFRs issued by the international Accounting standards Board iAsB and those prefixed iAs issued by the iAsBs predecessor body as well as interpretations issued by the international Financial Reporting interpretations committee iFRic and its predecessor body.
The Eu endorsed version of iAs 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement relaxes some of the hedge accounting requirements: the Group has not taken advantage of this relaxation, and therefore there is no difference in application to the Group between iFRs as adopted by the Eu and iFRs as issued by the iAsB.
The financial information has been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investment properties, available-for-sale financial assets, trading securities and certain other financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and all derivative contracts.
As stated on page 82, the directors consider that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Group has reviewed its holding of government securities classified as held-to-maturity: since it is no longer the Groups intention to hold these to maturity, they have been reclassified as available-for-sale.
in addition, as the Groups share of results of joint ventures and associates is no longer significant, this is now included within other operating income and the related asset reported within other assets: comparatives have been re-presented on a consistent basis.
The Group has adopted the following amendments to standards which became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2012. neither of these amendments has had a material impact on these financial statements.
i Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets Amendments to IFRS 7.
Requires disclosures in respect of all transferred financial assets that are not derecognised in their entirety and transferred assets that are derecognised in their entirety but with which there is continuing involvement.
disclosures in connection with such transfers can be found in note 54. ii Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets Amendment to IAS 12. introduces a rebuttable presumption that investment property measured at fair value is recovered entirely through sale and that deferred tax in respect of such investment property is recognised on that basis.
details of those iFRs pronouncements which will be relevant to the Group but which were not effective at 31 december 2012 and which have not been applied in preparing these financial statements are given in note 57.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 214 215 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 2: Accounting policies The Groups accounting policies are set out below.
These accounting policies have been applied consistently.
A Consolidation The assets, liabilities and results of Group undertakings including special purpose entities are included in the financial statements on the basis of accounts made up to the reporting date.
Group undertakings include subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
1 Subsidiaries subsidiaries include entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies which generally accompanies a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group: they are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
details of the principal subsidiaries are given in note 9 to the parent company financial statements.
investment vehicles, such as Open Ended investment companies OEics, where the Group has control are consolidated.
control arises when the Group manages the funds and also has a majority beneficial interest.
in circumstances where the Group holds a majority beneficial interest, but is not the fund manager, the Group does not consolidate the entity as it does not have the fund managers decision-making powers over the investment activities of the OEic necessary to establish control.
The interests of parties other than the Group are reported in other liabilities.
special purpose entities sPEs are consolidated if, in substance, the Group controls the entity.
A key indicator of such control, amongst others, is where the Group is exposed to the risks and benefits of the sPE.
The treatment of transactions with non-controlling interests depends on whether, as a result of the transaction, the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
changes in the parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions: any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent entity.
Where the group loses control of the subsidiary, at the date when control is lost the amount of any non-controlling interest in that former subsidiary is derecognised and any investment retained in the former subsidiary is remeasured to its fair value: the gain or loss that is recognised in profit or loss on the partial disposal of the subsidiary includes the gain or loss on the remeasurement of the retained interest.
intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations by the Group.
The consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred except those relating to the issuance of debt instruments see E 5 below or share capital see R 1 below.
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair value at the acquisition date.
2 Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control under a contractual arrangement with other parties.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies.
significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity and is normally achieved through holding between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting share capital of the entity.
The Group utilises the venture capital exemption for investments where significant influence or joint control is present and the business unit operates as a venture capital business.
These investments are designated at initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss.
Otherwise, the Groups investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recorded at cost and adjusted each year to reflect the Groups share of the post-acquisition results of the joint venture or associate based on audited accounts which are coterminous with the Group or made up to a date which is not more than three months before the Groups reporting date.
The share of any losses is restricted to a level that reflects an obligation to fund such losses.
B Goodwill Goodwill arises on business combinations, including the acquisition of subsidiaries, and on the acquisition of interests in joint ventures and associates: goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Where the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity is greater than the cost of acquisition, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and is tested at least annually for impairment.
if an impairment is identified the carrying value of the goodwill is written down immediately through the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in the Groups investment in joint ventures and associates.
At the date of disposal of a subsidiary, the carrying value of attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal except where it has been written off directly to reserves in the past.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 216 217 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 2: Accounting policies continued C Other intangible assets Other intangible assets include brands, core deposit intangible, purchased credit card relationships, customer-related intangibles and both internally and externally generated capitalised software enhancements.
intangible assets which have been determined to have a finite useful life are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful life as follows: capitalised software enhancements up to 7 years Brands which have been assessed as having finite lives 10-15 years customer-related intangibles up to 10 years core deposit intangible up to 8 years Purchased credit card relationships 5 years intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date to assess whether there is any indication that they are impaired.
if any such indication exists the recoverable amount of the asset is determined and in the event that the assets carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount, it is written down immediately.
certain brands have been determined to have an indefinite useful life and are not amortised.
such intangible assets are reassessed annually to reconfirm that an indefinite useful life remains appropriate.
in the event that an indefinite life is inappropriate a finite life is determined and an impairment review is performed on the asset.
D Revenue recognition interest income and expense are recognised in the income statement for all interest-bearing financial instruments using the effective interest method, except for those classified at fair value through profit or loss.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the expected life of the financial instrument.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts over the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
The effective interest rate is calculated on initial recognition of the financial asset or liability by estimating the future cash flows after considering all the contractual terms of the instrument but not future credit losses.
The calculation includes all amounts expected to be paid or received by the Group including expected early redemption fees and related penalties and premiums and discounts that are an integral part of the overall return.
direct incremental transaction costs related to the acquisition, issue or disposal of a financial instrument are also taken into account in the calculation.
Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has been written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest income is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss see H below.
Fees and commissions which are not an integral part of the effective interest rate are generally recognised when the service has been provided.
loan commitment fees for loans that are likely to be drawn down are deferred together with related direct costs and recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate on the loan once drawn.
Where it is unlikely that loan commitments will be drawn, loan commitment fees are recognised over the life of the facility.
loan syndication fees are recognised as revenue when the syndication has been completed and the Group retains no part of the loan package for itself or retains a part at the same effective interest rate for all interestbearing financial instruments, including loans and advances, as for the other participants.
dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Revenue recognition policies specific to life insurance and general insurance business are detailed below see O below : those relating to leases are set out in K 2 below.
e Financial assets and liabilities On initial recognition, financial assets are classified into fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets, held-to-maturity investments or loans and receivables.
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, except for trading liabilities and other financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition which are held at fair value.
Purchases and sales of securities and other financial assets and trading liabilities are recognised on trade date, being the date that the Group is committed to purchase or sell an asset.
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual right to receive cash flows from those assets has expired or when the Group has transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows from the assets and either: substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred: or the Group has neither retained nor transferred substantially all of the risks and rewards, but has transferred control.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished ie when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expire.
1 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Financial instruments are classified at fair value through profit or loss where they are trading securities or where they are designated at fair value through profit or loss by management.
derivatives are carried at fair value see F below.
Trading securities are debt securities and equity shares acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or which are part of a portfolio which is managed for short-term gains.
such securities are classified as trading securities and recognised in the balance sheet at their fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in their fair value together with interest coupons and dividend income are recognised in the income statement within net trading income in the period in which they occur.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 216 217 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 2: Accounting policies continued Other financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such by management upon initial recognition.
such assets and liabilities are carried in the balance sheet at their fair value and gains and losses arising from changes in fair value together with interest coupons and dividend income are recognised in the income statement within net trading income in the period in which they occur.
Financial assets and liabilities are designated at fair value through profit or loss on acquisition in the following circumstances: it eliminates or significantly reduces the inconsistent treatment that would otherwise arise from measuring the assets and liabilities or recognising gains or losses on different bases.
The main type of financial assets designated by the Group at fair value through profit or loss are assets backing insurance contracts and investment contracts issued by the Groups life insurance businesses.
Fair value designation allows changes in the fair value of these assets to be recorded in the income statement along with the changes in the value of the associated liabilities, thereby significantly reducing the measurement inconsistency had the assets been classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
the assets and liabilities are part of a group which is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, with management information also prepared on this basis.
As noted in A 2 above certain of the Groups investments are managed as venture capital investments and evaluated on the basis of their fair value and these assets are designated at fair value through profit or loss.
w here the assets and liabilities contain one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows arising under the contract and would otherwise need to be separately accounted for.
The fair values of assets and liabilities traded in active markets are based on current bid and offer prices respectively.
if the market is not active the Group establishes a fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
Refer to note 3 critical accounting estimates and judgements: Fair value of financial instruments and note 54 3 Financial instruments: Fair values of financial assets and liabilities for details of valuation techniques and significant inputs to valuation models.
The Group is permitted to reclassify, at fair value at the date of transfer, non-derivative financial assets other than those designated at fair value through profit or loss by the entity upon initial recognition out of the trading category if they are no longer held for the purpose of being sold or repurchased in the near term, as follows: if the financial assets would have met the definition of loans and receivables but for the fact that they had to be classified as held for trading at initial recognition, they may be reclassified into loans and receivables where the Group has the intention and ability to hold the assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity: or if the financial assets would not have met the definition of loans and receivables, they may be reclassified out of the held for trading category into available-for-sale financial assets in rare circumstances.
2 Available-for-sale financial assets debt securities and equity shares that are not classified as trading securities, at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity investments or as loans and receivables are classified as available-for-sale financial assets and are recognised in the balance sheet at their fair value, inclusive of transaction costs.
Available-for-sale financial assets are those intended to be held for an indeterminate period of time and may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, until the financial asset is either sold, becomes impaired or matures, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement.
interest calculated using the effective interest method and foreign exchange gains and losses on debt securities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
The Group is permitted to transfer a financial asset from the available-for-sale category to the loans and receivables category where that asset would have met the definition of loans and receivables at the time of reclassification if the financial asset had not been designated as available-for-sale and where there is both the intention and ability to hold that financial asset for the foreseeable future.
Reclassification of a financial asset from the available-for-sale category to the held-to-maturity category is permitted when the Group has the ability and intent to hold that financial asset to maturity.
Reclassifications are made at fair value as of the reclassification date.
Fair value becomes the new cost or amortised cost as applicable.
Effective interest rates for financial assets reclassified to the loans and receivables and held-to-maturity categories are determined at the reclassification date.
Any previous gain or loss on a transferred asset that has been recognised in equity is amortised to profit or loss over the remaining life of the investment using the effective interest method or until the asset becomes impaired.
Any difference between the new amortised cost and the expected cash flows is also amortised over the remaining life of the asset using the effective interest method.
When an impairment loss is recognised in respect of available-for-sale assets transferred, the unamortised balance of any available-for-sale reserve that remains in equity is transferred to the income statement and recorded as part of the impairment loss.
3 Loans and receivables loans and receivables include loans and advances to banks and customers and eligible assets including those transferred into this category out of the fair value through profit or loss or available-for-sale financial assets categories.
loans and receivables are initially recognised when cash is advanced to the borrowers at fair value inclusive of transaction costs or, for eligible assets transferred into this category, their fair value at the date of transfer.
Financial assets classified as loans and receivables are accounted for at amortised cost using the effective interest method see d above less provision for impairment see H below.
The Group has entered into securitisation and similar transactions to finance certain loans and advances to customers.
in cases where the securitisation vehicles are funded by the issue of debt, on terms whereby the majority of the risks and rewards of the portfolio of securitised Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 218 219 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 2: Accounting policies continued lending are retained by the Group, these loans and advances continue to be recognised by the Group, together with a corresponding liability for the funding.
4 Held-to-maturity investments Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity other than: those that the Group designates upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss: those that the Group designates as available-for-sale: and those that meet the definition of loans and receivables.
These are initially recognised at fair value including direct and incremental transaction costs and measured subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less any provision for impairment.
A sale or reclassification of a more than insignificant amount of held-to-maturity investments would result in the reclassification of all held-to-maturity investments to available-for-sale financial assets.
5 Borrowings Borrowings which include deposits from banks, customer deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of transaction costs incurred.
These instruments are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Preference shares and other instruments which carry a mandatory coupon or are redeemable on a specific date are classified as financial liabilities.
The coupon on these instruments is recognised in the income statement as interest expense.
An exchange of financial liabilities on substantially different terms is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability extinguished and the new financial liability is recognised in profit or loss together with any related costs or fees incurred.
When a financial liability is exchanged for an equity instrument, the new equity instrument is recognised at fair value and any difference between the original carrying value of the liability and the fair value of the new equity is recognised in the profit or loss together with any related costs or fees incurred.
6 Sale and repurchase agreements securities sold subject to repurchase agreements repos continue to be recognised on the balance sheet where substantially all of the risks and rewards are retained.
Funds received under these arrangements are included in deposits from banks, customer deposits, or trading liabilities.
conversely, securities purchased under agreements to resell reverse repos, where the Group does not acquire substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership, are recorded as loans and receivables or trading securities.
The difference between sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over the life of the agreements using the effective interest method.
securities lent to counterparties are retained in the financial statements.
securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the obligation to return them is recorded at fair value as a trading liability.
F Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting All derivatives are recognised at their fair value.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, including recent market transactions, and using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow and option pricing models, as appropriate.
derivatives are carried in the balance sheet as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that is not part of a hedging relationship are recognised immediately in the income statement.
derivatives embedded in financial instruments and insurance contracts unless the embedded derivative is itself an insurance contract are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
in accordance with iFRs 4 Insurance Contracts, a policyholders option to surrender an insurance contract for a fixed amount is not treated as an embedded derivative.
The method of recognising the movements in the fair value of derivatives depends on whether they are designated as hedging instruments and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedge accounting allows one financial instrument, generally a derivative such as a swap, to be designated as a hedge of another financial instrument such as a loan or deposit or a portfolio of such instruments.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, formal documentation is drawn up specifying the hedging strategy, the hedged item and the hedging instrument and the methodology that will be used to measure the effectiveness of the hedge relationship in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flow of the hedged risk.
The effectiveness of the hedging relationship is tested both at inception and throughout its life and if at any point it is concluded that it is no longer highly effective in achieving its documented objective, hedge accounting is discontinued.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of the particular risks inherent in recognised assets or liabilities fair value hedges : 2 hedges of highly probable future cash flows attributable to recognised assets or liabilities cash flow hedges : or 3 hedges of net investments in foreign operations net investment hedges.
These are accounted for as follows: Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 218 219 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 2: Accounting policies continued 1 Fair value hedges changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk: this also applies if the hedged asset is classified as an available-for-sale financial asset.
if the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are no longer recognised in the income statement.
The cumulative adjustment that has been made to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement using the effective interest method over the period to maturity.
2 Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised in the income statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
3 net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income, the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
The hedging instrument used in net investment hedges may include non-derivative liabilities as well as derivative financial instruments.
G Offset Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right of set-off and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
in certain situations, even though master netting agreements exist, the lack of management intention to settle on a net basis results in the financial assets and liabilities being reported gross on the balance sheet.
H impairment of financial assets 1 Assets accounted for at amortised cost At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether, as a result of one or more events occurring after initial recognition of the financial asset and prior to the balance sheet date, there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets has become impaired.
Where such an event has had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets, an impairment allowance is recognised.
The amount of impairment allowance is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
if the asset has a variable rate of interest, the discount rate used for measuring the impairment allowance is the current effective interest rate.
subsequent to the recognition of an impairment loss on a financial asset or a group of financial assets, interest income continues to be recognised on an effective interest rate basis, on the assets carrying value net of impairment provisions.
if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, such as an improvement in the borrowers credit rating, the allowance is adjusted and the amount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
impairment allowances are assessed individually for financial assets that are individually significant.
such individual assessment is used primarily for the Groups wholesale lending portfolios in the commercial Banking and Wealth, Asset Finance and international divisions.
impairment allowances for portfolios of smaller balance homogenous loans such as most residential mortgages, personal loans and credit card balances in the Groups retail portfolios in both the Retail and Wealth, Asset Finance and international divisions that are below the individual assessment thresholds, and for loan losses that have been incurred but not separately identified at the balance sheet date, are determined on a collective basis.
individual assessment in respect of individually significant financial assets in the Groups wholesale lending portfolios, assets are reviewed on a regular basis and those showing potential or actual vulnerability are placed on a watch list where greater monitoring is undertaken and any adverse or potentially adverse impact on ability to repay is used in assessing whether an asset should be transferred to a dedicated Business support unit.
specific examples of trigger events that would lead to the initial recognition of impairment allowances against lending to corporate borrowers or the recognition of additional impairment allowances include i trading losses, loss of business or major customer of a borrower: ii material breaches of the terms and conditions of a loan facility, including non-payment of interest or principal, or a fall in the value of security such that it is no longer considered adequate: iii disappearance of an active market because of financial difficulties: or iv restructuring a facility with preferential terms to aid recovery of the lending such as a debt for equity swap.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 220 221 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 2: Accounting policies continued For such individually identified financial assets, a review is undertaken of the expected future cash flows which requires significant management judgement as to the amount and timing of such cash flows.
Where the debt is secured, the assessment reflects the expected cash flows from the realisation of the security, net of costs to realise, whether or not foreclosure or realisation of the collateral is probable.
For impaired debt instruments which are held at amortised cost, impairment losses are recognised in subsequent periods when it is determined that there has been a further negative impact on expected future cash flows.
A reduction in fair value caused by general widening of credit spreads would not, of itself, result in additional impairment.
collective assessment impairment is assessed on a collective basis for 1 homogenous groups of loans that are not considered individually impaired: and 2 to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual impairment.
Homogenous groups of loans in respect of portfolios of smaller balance, homogenous loans, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar risk characteristics and collectively assessed for impairment.
segmentation takes into account factors such as the type of asset, industry sector, geographical location, collateral type, past-due status and other relevant factors.
These characteristics are relevant to the estimation of future cash flows for groups of such assets as they are indicative of the borrowers ability to pay all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the assets being evaluated.
Generally, the impairment trigger used within the impairment calculation for a loan, or group of loans, is when they reach a pre-defined level of delinquency or where the customer is bankrupt.
loans where the Group provides arrangements that forgive a portion of interest or principal are also deemed to be impaired and loans that are originated to refinance currently impaired assets are also defined as impaired.
in respect of the Groups secured mortgage portfolios, the impairment allowance is calculated based on a definition of impaired loans which are those six months or more in arrears or certain cases where the borrower is bankrupt or is in possession.
The estimated cash flows are calculated based on historical experience and are dependent on estimates of the expected value of collateral which takes into account expected future movements in house prices, less costs to sell.
For unsecured personal lending portfolios, the impairment trigger is generally when the balance is two or more instalments in arrears or where the customer has exhibited one or more of the impairment characteristics set out above.
While the trigger is based on the payment performance or circumstances of each individual asset, the assessment of future cash flows uses historical experience of cohorts of similar portfolios such that the assessment is considered to be collective.
Future cash flows are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows of the assets in the cohort and historical loss experience for similar assets.
Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data about economic and credit conditions including unemployment rates and borrowers behaviour to reflect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that do not exist currently.
The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash flows are reviewed regularly by the Group to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
Incurred but not yet identified impairment The collective provision also includes provision for inherent losses, that is losses that have been incurred but have not been separately identified at the balance sheet date.
The loans that are not currently recognised as impaired are grouped into homogenous portfolios by key risk drivers.
Risk drivers for secured retail lending include the current indexed loan-to-value, previous mortgage arrears, internal cross-product delinquency data and external credit bureau data: for unsecured retail lending they include whether the account is up-to-date and, if not, the number of payments that have been missed: and for wholesale lending they include factors such as observed default rates and loss given default.
An assessment is made of the likelihood of each account becoming recognised as impaired within the loss emergence period, with the economic loss that each portfolio is likely to generate were it to become impaired.
The loss emergence period is determined by local management for each portfolio and the Group has a range of loss emergence periods which are dependent upon the characteristics of the portfolios.
loss emergence periods are reviewed regularly and updated when appropriate.
in general the periods used across the Group vary between one month and twelve months based on historical experience.
unsecured portfolios tend to have shorter loss emergence periods than secured portfolios.
loan renegotiations and forbearance in certain circumstances, the Group will renegotiate the original terms of a customers loan, either as part of an ongoing customer relationship or in response to adverse changes in the circumstances of the borrower.
Where the renegotiated payments of interest and principal will not recover the original carrying value of the asset, the asset continues to be reported as past due and is considered impaired.
Where the renegotiated payments of interest and principal will recover the original carrying value of the asset, the loan is no longer reported as past due or impaired provided that payments are made in accordance with the revised terms.
Renegotiation may lead to the loan and associated provision being derecognised and a new loan being recognised initially at fair value.
Write offs A loan or advance is normally written off, either partially or in full, against the related allowance when the proceeds from realising any available security have been received or there is no realistic prospect of recovery and the amount of the loss has been determined.
subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the amount of impairment losses recorded in the income statement.
For both secured and unsecured retail balances, the write-off takes place only once an extensive set of collections processes has been completed, or the status of the account reaches a point where policy dictates that forbearance is no longer appropriate.
For wholesale lending, a write-off occurs if the loan facility with the customer is restructured, the asset is under administration and the only monies that can be received are the amounts estimated by the administrator, the underlying assets are disposed and a decision is made that no further settlement monies will be received, or external evidence for example, third party valuations is available that there has been an irreversible decline in expected cash flows.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 220 221 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 2: Accounting policies continued debt for equity exchanges Equity securities acquired in exchange for loans in order to achieve an orderly realisation are accounted for as a disposal of the loan and an acquisition of equity securities, held as available-for-sale.
Where control is obtained over an entity as a result of the transaction, the entity is consolidated: where the Group has significant influence over an entity as a result of the transaction, the investment is accounted for by the equity method of accounting see A above.
Any subsequent impairment of the assets or business acquired is treated as an impairment of the relevant asset or business and not as an impairment of the original instrument.
2 Available-for-sale financial assets The Group assesses, at each balance sheet date, whether there is objective evidence that an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired.
in addition to the criteria for financial assets accounted for at amortised cost set out above, this assessment involves reviewing the current financial circumstances including creditworthiness and future prospects of the issuer, assessing the future cash flows expected to be realised and, in the case of equity shares, considering whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost.
if an impairment loss has been incurred, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost net of any principal repayment and amortisation and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that asset previously recognised, is reclassified from equity to the income statement.
For impaired debt instruments, impairment losses are recognised in subsequent periods when it is determined that there has been a further negative impact on expected future cash flows: a reduction in fair value caused by general widening of credit spreads would not, of itself, result in additional impairment.
if, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, an amount not greater than the original impairment loss is credited to the income statement: any excess is taken to other comprehensive income.
impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
i investment property investment property comprises freehold and long leasehold land and buildings that are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
The Groups investment property primarily relates to property held for long-term rental yields and capital appreciation within the life insurance funds.
investment property is carried in the balance sheet at fair value, being the open market value as determined in accordance with the guidance published by the Royal institution of chartered surveyors.
if this information is not available, the Group uses alternative valuation methods such as discounted cash flow projections or recent prices.
These valuations are reviewed at least annually by an independent valuation expert.
investment property being redeveloped for continuing use as investment property, or for which the market has become less active, continues to be measured at fair value.
changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement as net trading income.
J Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are included at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The value of land included in premises is not depreciated.
depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the difference between the cost and the residual value over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Premises excluding land : Freehold long and short leasehold premises: shorter of 50 years and the remaining period of the lease.
leasehold improvements: shorter of 10 years and, if lease renewal is not likely, the remaining period of the lease.
Equipment: Fixtures and furnishings: 10-20 years.
Other equipment and motor vehicles: 2-8 years.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
in the event that an assets carrying amount is determined to be greater than its recoverable amount it is written down immediately.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
K Leases 1 As lessee The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating leases.
Operating lease rentals payable are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
When an operating lease is terminated before the end of the lease period, any payment made to the lessor by way of penalty is recognised as an expense in the period of termination.
2 As lessor Assets leased to customers are classified as finance leases if the lease agreements transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee but not necessarily legal title.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
When assets are subject to finance leases, the present value of the lease payments, together with any unguaranteed residual value, is recognised as a receivable, net of provisions, within loans and advances to banks and customers.
The difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the receivable is recognised as unearned finance lease income.
Finance lease income is recognised in interest income over the term of the lease using the net investment Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 222 223 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 2: Accounting policies continued method before tax so as to give a constant rate of return on the net investment in the leases.
unguaranteed residual values are reviewed regularly to identify any impairment.
Operating lease assets are included within tangible fixed assets at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives, which equates to the lives of the leases, after taking into account anticipated residual values.
Operating lease rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
The Group evaluates non-lease arrangements such as outsourcing and similar contracts to determine if they contain a lease which is then accounted for separately.
L Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group operates a number of post-retirement benefit schemes for its employees including both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
A defined benefit scheme is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan into which the Group pays fixed contributions: there is no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions.
Full actuarial valuations of the Groups principal defined benefit schemes are carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years: these valuations are updated to 31 december each year by qualified independent actuaries, or in the case of the scottish Widows Retirement Benefits scheme, by a qualified actuary employed by scottish Widows.
For the purposes of these annual updates scheme assets are included at their fair value and scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method adjusted for unrecognised actuarial gains and losses.
The defined benefit scheme liabilities are discounted using rates equivalent to the market yields at the balance sheet date on high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The Groups income statement charge includes the current service cost of providing pension benefits, the expected return on the schemes assets, net of expected administration costs, and the interest cost on the schemes liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are not recognised unless the cumulative unrecognised gain or loss at the end of the previous reporting period exceeds the greater of 10 per cent of the scheme assets or liabilities the corridor approach.
in these circumstances the excess is charged or credited to the income statement over the employees expected average remaining working lives.
Past service costs are charged immediately to the income statement, unless the charges are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
in this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The Groups balance sheet includes the net surplus or deficit, being the difference between the fair value of scheme assets and the discounted value of scheme liabilities at the balance sheet date adjusted for any cumulative unrecognised actuarial gains or losses.
surpluses are only recognised to the extent that they are recoverable through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the schemes.
The Group recognises the effect of material changes to the terms of its defined benefit pension plans which reduce future benefits as curtailments: gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the curtailments occur.
The costs of the Groups defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due.
M Share-based compensation The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans in respect of services received from certain of its employees.
The value of the employee services received in exchange for equity instruments granted under these plans is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the instruments, with a corresponding increase in equity.
This expense is determined by reference to the fair value of the number of equity instruments that are expected to vest.
The fair value of equity instruments granted is based on market prices, if available, at the date of grant.
in the absence of market prices, the fair value of the instruments at the date of grant is estimated using an appropriate valuation technique, such as a Black-scholes option pricing model or a Monte carlo simulation.
The determination of fair values excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions, which are included in the assumptions used to estimate the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, this estimate is reassessed and if necessary revised.
Any revision of the original estimate is recognised in the income statement, together with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
cancellations by employees of contributions to the Groups save As You Earn plans are treated as non-vesting conditions and the Group recognises, in the year of cancellation, the amount of the expense that would have otherwise been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period.
Modifications are assessed at the date of modification and any incremental charges are charged to the income statement.
n Taxation current income tax which is payable on taxable profits is recognised as an expense in the period in which the profits arise.
For the Groups long-term insurance businesses, the tax charge is analysed between tax that is payable in respect of policyholders returns and tax that is payable on shareholders returns.
This allocation is based on an assessment of the rates of tax which will be applied to the returns under current uK tax rules.
deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date which are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 222 223 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 2: Accounting policies continued deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
income tax payable on profits is recognised as an expense in the period in which those profits arise.
The tax effects of losses available for carry forward are recognised as an asset when it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which these losses can be utilised.
deferred and current tax related to gains and losses on the fair value re-measurement of available-for-sale investments and cash flow hedges, where these gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income, is also recognised in other comprehensive income.
such tax is subsequently transferred to the income statement together with the gain or loss.
deferred and current tax assets and liabilities are offset when they arise in the same tax reporting group and where there is both a legal right of offset and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
O insurance The Group undertakes both life insurance and general insurance business.
insurance and participating investment contracts are accounted for under iFRs 4 Insurance Contracts, which permits with certain exceptions the continuation of accounting practices for measuring insurance and participating investment contracts that applied prior to the adoption of iFRs.
The Group, therefore, continues to account for these products using uK GAAP, including FRs 27 Life Assurance, and uK established practice.
Products sold by the life insurance business are classified into three categories: insurance contracts these contracts transfer significant insurance risk and may also transfer financial risk.
The Group defines significant insurance risk as the possibility of having to pay benefits on the occurrence of an insured event which are significantly more than the benefits payable if the insured event were not to occur.
These contracts may or may not include discretionary participation features.
investment contracts containing a discretionary participation feature participating investment contracts these contracts do not transfer significant insurance risk, but contain a contractual right which gives the holder the right to receive, in addition to the guaranteed benefits, further additional discretionary benefits or bonuses that are likely to be a significant proportion of the total contractual benefits and the amount and timing of which is at the discretion of the Group, within the constraints of the terms and conditions of the instrument and based upon the performance of specified assets.
non-participating investment contracts these contracts do not transfer significant insurance risk or contain a discretionary participation feature.
The general insurance business issues only insurance contracts.
1 Life insurance business i Accounting for insurance and participating investment contracts Premiums and claims Premiums received in respect of insurance and participating investment contracts are recognised as revenue when due except for unit-linked contracts on which premiums are recognised as revenue when received.
claims are recorded as an expense on the earlier of the maturity date or the date on which the claim is notified.
Liabilities Insurance and participating investment contracts in the Groups with-profit funds liabilities of the Groups with-profit funds, including guarantees and options embedded within products written by these funds, are stated at their realistic values in accordance with the Financial services Authoritys realistic capital regime, except that projected transfers out of the funds into other Group funds are recorded in the unallocated surplus see below.
Further details on the realistic capital regime are given on page 195. changes in the value of these liabilities are recognised in the income statement through insurance claims.
Insurance and participating investment contracts which are not unit-linked or in the Groups with-profit funds A liability for contractual benefits that are expected to be incurred in the future is recorded when the premiums are recognised.
The liability is calculated by estimating the future cash flows over the duration of in-force policies and discounting them back to the valuation date allowing for probabilities of occurrence.
The liability will vary with movements in interest rates and with the cost of life insurance and annuity benefits where future mortality is uncertain.
Assumptions are made in respect of all material factors affecting future cash flows, including future interest rates, mortality and costs.
changes in the value of these liabilities are recognised in the income statement through insurance claims.
Insurance and participating investment contracts which are unit-linked liabilities for unit-linked insurance contracts and participating investment contracts are stated at the bid value of units plus an additional allowance where appropriate such as for any excess of future expenses over charges.
The liability is increased or reduced by the change in the unit prices and is reduced by policy administration fees, mortality and surrender charges and any withdrawals.
changes in the value of the liability are recognised in the income statement through insurance claims.
Benefit claims in excess of the account balances incurred in the period are also charged through insurance claims.
Revenue consists of fees deducted for mortality, policy administration and surrender charges.
Unallocated surplus Any amounts in the with-profit funds not yet determined as being due to policyholders or shareholders are recognised as an unallocated surplus which is shown separately from liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 224 225 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 2: Accounting policies continued ii Accounting for non-participating investment contracts Assets arising from reinsurance contracts held Classified as insurance contracts The Groups non-participating investment contracts are primarily unit-linked.
These contracts are accounted for as financial liabilities whose Amounts recoverable from or due to reinsurers are measured consistently with the amounts associated with the reinsured contracts and in value is contractually linked to the fair values of financial assets within the Groups unitised investment funds.
The value of the unit-linked accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract and are regularly reviewed for impairment.
Premiums payable for reinsurance contracts financial liabilities is determined using current unit prices multiplied by the number of units attributed to the contract holders at the balance are recognised as an expense when due within insurance premium income.
changes in the reinsurance recoverable assets are recognised in the sheet date.
Their value is never less than the amount payable on surrender, discounted for the required notice period where applicable.
income statement through insurance claims.
investment returns including movements in fair value and investment income allocated to those contracts are recognised in the income Assets arising from reinsurance contracts held Classified as non-participating investment contracts statement through insurance claims.
These contracts are accounted for as financial assets whose value is contractually linked to the fair values of financial assets within the deposits and withdrawals are not accounted for through the income statement but are accounted for directly in the balance sheet as reinsurers investment funds.
investment returns including movements in fair value and investment income allocated to these contracts adjustments to the non-participating investment contract liability.
are recognised in insurance claims.
deposits and withdrawals are not accounted for through the income statement but are accounted The Group receives investment management fees in the form of an initial adjustment or charge to the amount invested.
These fees are in for directly in the balance sheet as adjustments to the assets arising from reinsurance contracts held.
respect of services rendered in conjunction with the issue and management of investment contracts where the Group actively manages the consideration received from its customers to fund a return that is based on the investment profile that the customer selected on origination P Foreign currency translation of the contract.
These services comprise an indeterminate number of acts over the lives of the individual contracts and, therefore, the Group items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic defers these fees and recognises them over the estimated lives of the contracts, in line with the provision of investment management services.
environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the costs which are directly attributable and incremental to securing new non-participating investment contracts are deferred.
This asset is companys functional and presentation currency.
subsequently amortised over the period of the provision of investment management services and is reviewed for impairment in circumstances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the appropriate functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of where its carrying amount may not be recoverable.
if the asset is greater than its recoverable amount it is written down immediately through the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end fee and commission expense in the income statement.
All other costs are recognised as expenses when incurred.
exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when recognised in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow or net investment hedges.
non-monetary assets that are measured at fair iii Value of in-force business value are translated using the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Translation differences on equities and similar The Group recognises as an asset the value of in-force business in respect of insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
The non-monetary items held at fair value through profit and loss are recognised in profit or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation asset represents the present value of the shareholders interest in the profits expected to emerge from those contracts written at the balance differences on available-for-sale non-monetary financial assets, such as equity shares, are included in the fair value reserve in equity unless the sheet date.
This is determined after making appropriate assumptions about future economic and operating conditions such as future mortality asset is a hedged item in a fair value hedge.
and persistency rates and includes allowances for both non-market risk and for the realistic value of financial options and guarantees.
Each cash flow is valued using the discount rate consistent with that applied to such a cash flow in the capital markets.
The asset in the consolidated The results and financial position of all group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated balance sheet is presented gross of attributable tax and movements in the asset are reflected within other operating income in the into the presentation currency as follows: income statement.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity, are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The Groups contractual rights to benefits from providing investment management services in relation to non-participating investment contracts acquired in business combinations and portfolio transfers are measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
The resulting asset The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average exchange rates unless these do not approximate to the is amortised over the estimated lives of the contracts.
At each reporting date an assessment is made to determine if there is any indication of foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions.
Where impairment exists, the carrying value of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount and the impairment loss recognised Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the income statement.
in a separate component of equity together with exchange differences arising from the translation of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments see F 3 above.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative amount of exchange 2 General insurance business differences relating to that foreign operation are reclassified from equity and included in determining the profit or loss arising on disposal.
The Group both underwrites and acts as intermediary in the sale of general insurance products.
underwriting premiums are included in insurance premium income, net of refunds, in the period in which insurance cover is provided to the customer: premiums received relating q Provisions and contingent liabilities to future periods are deferred in the balance sheet within liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts and only credited to the income statement when earned.
Broking commission is recognised when the underwriter accepts the risk of Provisions are recognised in respect of present obligations arising from past events where it is probable that outflows of resources will be providing insurance cover to the customer.
Where appropriate, provision is made for the effect of future policy terminations based upon required to settle the obligations and they can be reliably estimated.
The Group recognises provisions in respect of vacant leasehold property where the unavoidable costs of the present obligations exceed The underwriting business makes provision for the estimated cost of claims notified but not settled and claims incurred but not reported at anticipated rental income.
The provision for the cost of claims notified but not settled is based upon a best estimate of the cost of settling the contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence depends on the outcome of uncertain future events or those present outstanding claims after taking into account all known facts.
in those cases where there is insufficient information to determine the required obligations where the outflows of resources are uncertain or cannot be measured reliably.
contingent liabilities are not recognised in the provision, statistical techniques are used which take into account the cost of claims that have recently been settled and make assumptions financial statements but are disclosed unless they are remote.
about the future development of the outstanding cases.
similar statistical techniques are used to determine the provision for claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date.
claims liabilities are not discounted.
R Share capital 3 Liability adequacy test 1 Share issue costs At each balance sheet date liability adequacy tests are performed to ensure the adequacy of insurance and participating investment contract incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options or to the acquisition of a business are shown in equity as a liabilities net of related deferred cost assets and value of in-force business.
in performing these tests current best estimates of discounted deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
future contractual cash flows and claims handling and policy administration expenses, as well as investment income from the assets backing such liabilities, are used.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the income statement, initially by writing off the relevant assets and 2 Dividends subsequently by establishing a provision for losses arising from liability adequacy tests.
dividends paid on the Groups ordinary shares are recognised as a reduction in equity in the period in which they are paid.
4 Reinsurance 3 Treasury shares contracts entered into by the Group with reinsurers under which the Group is compensated for benefits payable on one or more contracts Where the company or any member of the Group purchases the companys share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from issued by the Group are recognised as assets arising from reinsurance contracts held.
Where the underlying contracts issued by the Group are shareholders equity as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration classified as insurance contracts and the reinsurance contract transfers significant insurance risk on those contracts to the reinsurer, the assets received is included in shareholders equity.
arising from reinsurance contracts held are classified as insurance contracts.
Where the underlying contracts issued by the Group are classified as non-participating investment contracts and the reinsurance contract transfers financial risk on those contracts to the reinsurer, the assets arising from reinsurance contracts held are classified as non-participating investment contracts.
S Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and non-mandatory balances with central banks and amounts due from banks with a maturity of less than three months.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 224 225 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 2: Accounting policies continued Assets arising from reinsurance contracts held Classified as insurance contracts Amounts recoverable from or due to reinsurers are measured consistently with the amounts associated with the reinsured contracts and in accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract and are regularly reviewed for impairment.
Premiums payable for reinsurance contracts are recognised as an expense when due within insurance premium income.
changes in the reinsurance recoverable assets are recognised in the income statement through insurance claims.
Assets arising from reinsurance contracts held Classified as non-participating investment contracts These contracts are accounted for as financial assets whose value is contractually linked to the fair values of financial assets within the reinsurers investment funds.
investment returns including movements in fair value and investment income allocated to these contracts are recognised in insurance claims.
deposits and withdrawals are not accounted for through the income statement but are accounted for directly in the balance sheet as adjustments to the assets arising from reinsurance contracts held.
P Foreign currency translation items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the companys functional and presentation currency.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the appropriate functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when recognised in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow or net investment hedges.
non-monetary assets that are measured at fair value are translated using the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Translation differences on equities and similar non-monetary items held at fair value through profit and loss are recognised in profit or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on available-for-sale non-monetary financial assets, such as equity shares, are included in the fair value reserve in equity unless the asset is a hedged item in a fair value hedge.
The results and financial position of all group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity, are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average exchange rates unless these do not approximate to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a separate component of equity together with exchange differences arising from the translation of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments see F 3 above.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative amount of exchange differences relating to that foreign operation are reclassified from equity and included in determining the profit or loss arising on disposal.
q Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are recognised in respect of present obligations arising from past events where it is probable that outflows of resources will be required to settle the obligations and they can be reliably estimated.
The Group recognises provisions in respect of vacant leasehold property where the unavoidable costs of the present obligations exceed anticipated rental income.
contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence depends on the outcome of uncertain future events or those present obligations where the outflows of resources are uncertain or cannot be measured reliably.
contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless they are remote.
R Share capital 1 Share issue costs incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options or to the acquisition of a business are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
2 Dividends dividends paid on the Groups ordinary shares are recognised as a reduction in equity in the period in which they are paid.
3 Treasury shares Where the company or any member of the Group purchases the companys share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from shareholders equity as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholders equity.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 226 227 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 3: Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of the Groups financial statements in accordance with iFRs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions in applying the accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be based upon amounts which differ from those estimates.
Estimates, judgements and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The significant judgements made by management in applying the Groups accounting policies and the key sources of estimation uncertainty in these financial statements, which together are deemed critical to the Groups results and financial position, are as follows.
Allowance for impairment losses on loans and receivables At 31 december 2012 gross loans and receivables totalled 567,374 million 2011: 629,736 million against which impairment allowances of 15,459 million 2011: 19,022 million had been made see note 24.
The Groups accounting policy for losses arising on financial assets classified as loans and receivables is described in note 2 H 1 : this note also provides an overview of the methodologies applied.
The allowance for impairment losses on loans and receivables is managements best estimate of losses incurred in the portfolio at the balance sheet date.
impairment allowances are made up of two components, those determined individually and those determined collectively.
individual impairment allowances are generally established against the Groups wholesale lending portfolios.
The determination of individual impairment allowances requires the exercise of considerable judgement by management involving matters such as local economic conditions and the resulting trading performance of the customer, and the value of the security held, for which there may not be a readily accessible market.
in particular, significant judgement is required by management in the current economic environment in assessing the borrowers cash flows and debt servicing capability together with the realisable value of collateral.
The actual amount of the future cash flows and their timing may differ significantly from the assumptions made for the purposes of determining the impairment allowances and consequently these allowances can be subject to variation as time progresses and the circumstances of the customer become clearer.
collective impairment allowances are generally established for smaller balance homogenous portfolios such as the retail portfolios.
The collective impairment allowance is also subject to estimation uncertainty and in particular is sensitive to changes in economic and credit conditions, including the interdependency of house prices, unemployment rates, interest rates, borrowers behaviour, and consumer bankruptcy trends.
it is, however, inherently difficult to estimate how changes in one or more of these factors might impact the collective impairment allowance.
Given the relative size of the mortgage portfolio, a key variable is house prices which determine the collateral value supporting loans in such portfolios.
The value of this collateral is estimated by applying changes in house price indices to the original assessed value of the property.
if average house prices were ten per cent lower than those estimated at 31 december 2012, the impairment charge would increase by approximately 330 million in respect of uK mortgages and a further 55 million in respect of irish mortgages.
in addition, a collective unimpaired provision is made for loan losses that have been incurred but have not been separately identified at the balance sheet date.
This provision is sensitive to changes in the time between the loss event and the date the impairment is specifically identified.
This period is known as the loss emergence period.
in the commercial Banking division, an increase of one month in the loss emergence period in respect of the loan portfolio assessed for collective unimpaired provisions would result in an increase in the collective unimpaired provision of approximately 130 million at 31 december 2011, a one month increase in the loss emergence period would have increased the collective unimpaired provision by an estimated 181 million.
Unwind of HBOS acquisition fair value adjustments The acquisition of HBOs in January 2009 required the Group to recognise the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values.
The overall effect was to increase the book value of HBOss net assets by 1,241 million primarily reflecting a reduction in the value of HBOss debt securities and subordinated liabilities of 15,439 million, partially offset by a reduction in the carrying value of HBOss loans and receivables of 14,880 million, including loans and advances to customers of 13,512 million.
in the periods subsequent to the acquisition, all of the fair value adjustments unwind.
The fair value adjustments made to debt securities and subordinated liabilities unwind over the expected remaining life of the related securities except in the event that the liability is extinguished, in which case the remaining unamortised fair value adjustment is recognised in the income statement immediately.
The timing of the unwind of the fair value adjustment relating to loans and receivables requires significant management judgement.
This includes the identification of losses which were expected at the date of acquisition and assessing whether anticipated losses will still be incurred.
in 2012, there was a benefit of 1,339 million 2011: 1,943 million to the income statement either from the reversal of a fair value adjustment being credited to the income statement or through a lower impairment charge as a result of the initial HBOs acquisition fair value adjustments.
Fair value of financial instruments in accordance with iFRs 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure, the Group categorises financial instruments carried on the balance sheet at fair value using a three level hierarchy.
Financial instruments categorised as level 1 are valued using quoted market prices and therefore there is minimal judgement applied in determining fair value.
However, the fair value of financial instruments categorised as level 2 and, in particular, level 3 is determined using valuation techniques including discounted cash flow analysis and valuation models.
These valuation techniques involve management judgement and estimates the extent of which depends on the complexity of the instrument and the availability of market observable information.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 226 227 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 3: Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Valuation techniques for level 2 financial instruments use inputs that are largely based on observable market data.
level 3 financial instruments are those where at least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments valuation is not based on observable market data.
determining the appropriate assumptions to be used for level 3 financial instruments requires significant management judgement.
At 31 december 2012, the Group classified 6,231 million of financial assets and 591 million of financial liabilities as level 3.
Further details of the Groups level 3 financial instruments and the sensitivity of their valuation including the effect of applying reasonably possible alternative assumptions in determining their fair value are set out in note 54. details about sensitivities to market risk arising from trading assets and other treasury positions can be found in the Risk Management section on page 170.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets At 31 december 2012 the Group carried deferred tax assets on its balance sheet of 4,285 million 2011: 4,496 million and deferred tax liabilities of 327 million 2011: 314 million note 43.
This presentation takes into account the ability of the Group to net deferred tax assets and liabilities only where there is a legally enforceable right of offset.
note 43 presents the Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities by type.
The largest category of deferred tax asset relates to tax losses carried forward.
The recoverability of the Groups deferred tax assets in respect of carry forward losses is based on an assessment of future levels of taxable profit expected to arise that can be offset against these losses.
The Groups expectations as to the level of future taxable profits take into account the Groups long-term financial and strategic plans, and anticipated future tax adjusting items.
in making this assessment account is taken of business plans, the five year board approved operating plan and the following future risk factors: The expected future economic outlook as set out in the Group chief Executives Review: The retail banking business disposal as required by the European commission: and Future regulatory change.
The Groups total deferred tax asset includes 7,034 million 2011: 5,862 million in respect of trading losses carried forward.
The tax losses have arisen in individual legal entities and will be used as future taxable profits arise in those legal entities, though substantially all of the unused tax losses for which a deferred tax asset has been recognised arise in Bank of scotland plc and lloyds TsB Bank plc.
The deferred tax asset is expected to be utilised over different time periods in each of the entities in which the losses arise.
under current uK tax law there is no expiry date for unused tax losses.
The assessment of the likely rate of recoverability of the deferred tax is expected to be slower than previously anticipated due to the more subdued and uncertain macroeconomic environment and the further provisions for legacy issues.
However, the losses are still expected to be fully utilised by 2019.
As disclosed in note 43: deferred tax assets totalling 1,311 million 2011: 1,288 million have not been recognised in respect of certain capital losses carried forward, trading losses carried forward and unrelieved foreign tax credits as there are no predicted future capital or taxable profits against which these losses can be recognised.
Retirement benefit obligations The net asset recognised in the balance sheet at 31 december 2012 in respect of the Groups retirement benefit obligations was 1,567 million comprising an asset of 1,867 million and a liability of 300 million 2011: a net asset of 957 million of which an asset of 1,748 million 2011: 1,131 million related to defined benefit pension schemes.
As explained in note 2 l, the Group adopts the corridor approach to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses in respect of its pension schemes and as a consequence has not recognised actuarial losses of 2,705 million 2011: 539 million.
After allowing for this, the defined benefit pension schemes net accounting deficit totalled 957 million 2011: surplus of 592 million representing the difference between the schemes liabilities and the fair value of the related assets at the balance sheet date.
The value of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes liabilities requires management to make a number of assumptions.
The key areas of estimation uncertainty are the discount rate applied to future cash flows and the expected lifetime of the schemes members.
The accounting surplus or deficit is sensitive to changes in the discount rate, which is affected by market conditions and therefore potentially subject to significant variation.
The cost of the benefits payable by the schemes will also depend upon the longevity of the members.
Assumptions are made regarding the expected lifetime of scheme members based upon recent experience and extrapolate the improving trend, however given the rate of advance in medical science and increasing levels of obesity, it is uncertain whether they will ultimately reflect actual experience.
The effect on the net accounting surplus or deficit and on the pension charge in the Groups income statement of changes to the principal actuarial assumptions is set out in note 42. valuation of assets and liabilities arising from life insurance business At 31 december 2012, the Group recognised a value of in-force business asset of 5,488 million 2011: 5,247 million and an acquired value of in-force business asset of 1,312 million 2011: 1,391 million.
The value of in-force business asset represents the present value of future profits expected to arise from the portfolio of in-force life insurance and participating investment contracts.
The acquired value of in-force business asset represents the contractual rights to benefits from providing investment management services in relation to non-participating investment contracts acquired in business combinations and portfolio transfers.
The methodology used to value these assets is set out in note 2 O 1.
The valuation or recoverability of these assets requires assumptions to be made about future economic and operating conditions which are inherently uncertain and changes could significantly affect the value attributed to these assets.
The key assumptions that have been made in determining the carrying value of the value of in-force business assets at 31 december 2012 are set out in note 29.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 228 229 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 3: Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued At 31 december 2012, the Group carried liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts of 82,953 million 2011: 78,991 million.
The methodology used to value these liabilities is described in note 2 O 1.
Elements of the liability valuations require assumptions to be made about future investment returns, future mortality rates and future policyholder behaviour and are subject to significant management judgement and estimation uncertainty.
The key assumptions that have been made in determining the carrying value of these liabilities are set out in note 37.
The effect on the Groups profit before tax and shareholders equity of changes in key assumptions used in determining the life insurance assets and liabilities is set out in note 38.
Payment protection insurance and other regulatory provisions At 31 december 2012, the Group carried provisions of 3,366 million 2011: 2,499 million against the cost of making redress payments to customers and the related administration costs in connection with historic regulatory breaches, principally the misselling of payment protection insurance.
determining the amount of the provisions, which represent managements best estimate of the cost of settling these issues, requires the exercise of significant judgement.
it will often be necessary to form a view on matters which are inherently uncertain, such as the number of future complaints, the extent to which they will be upheld and the average cost of redress.
consequently the continued appropriateness of the underlying assumptions is reviewed on a regular basis against actual experience and other relevant evidence and adjustments made to the provisions where appropriate.
note 44 contains more detail on the nature of the assumptions that have been made and key sensitivities.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 228 229 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 4: Segmental analysis lloyds Banking Group provides a wide range of banking and financial services in the uK and in certain locations overseas.
The Group Executive committee has been determined to be the chief operating decision maker for the Group.
The Groups operating segments reflect its organisational and management structures.
The Group Executive committee reviews the Groups internal reporting based around these segments in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
This assessment includes a consideration of each segments net interest revenue and consequently the total interest income and expense for all reportable segments is presented on a net basis.
The segments are differentiated by the type of products provided, by whether the customers are individuals or corporate entities and by the geographical location of the customer.
The segmental results and comparatives are presented on a management basis, the basis reviewed by the chief operating decision maker.
Previously the results of the Groups segments had been reviewed on a combined businesses basis and the Groups segmental analysis was presented accordingly.
Profit on the management basis is equivalent to profit before tax on a combined businesses basis.
However, the effects of asset sales, volatile items and liability management are shown on a separate line in the management basis income statements whereas they were previously included in the relevant line items on a combined businesses basis: in addition the results of asset sales are now reported net of the related fair value unwind whereas this was previously included on the separate fair value unwind line.
Following a reorganisation during 2012, the Groups activities are now organised into four financial reporting segments: Retail: commercial Banking: Wealth, Asset Finance and international: and insurance.
The impact of this reorganisation was as follows: The Groups Wholesale and commercial divisions have been combined to form commercial Banking.
The Asset Finance business unit, previously reported within Wholesale, is now reported within the Wealth, Asset Finance and international segment: the Asset Finance business recorded a management basis profit before tax of 319 million in the year ended 31 december 2012 2011: 275 million: 2010: 380 million.
The Groups continental European wholesale business and the wholesale Australian business have been transferred from Wealth, Asset Finance and international to commercial Banking: during the year ended 31 december 2012 these transferred businesses recorded a management basis loss before tax of 432 million 2011: 1,050 million: 2010: 1,327 million.
in addition, asset sales now include sales of centrally held government bonds, following an increase in activity in the first half of 2012. comparative figures have been restated accordingly for all of the above changes.
Retail offers a broad range of retail financial service products in the uK, including current accounts, savings, personal loans, credit cards and mortgages.
it is also a major general insurance and bancassurance distributor, selling a wide range of long-term savings, investment and general insurance products.
commercial Banking provides banking and related services for all uK and multinational business clients, from small and medium-sized enterprises to major corporate and financial institutions.
Wealth, Asset Finance and international gives increased focus and momentum to the Groups private banking and asset management activities, closely co-ordinates the management of its international businesses and now also encompasses the Asset Finance business in the uK and Australia.
Wealth comprises the Groups private banking, wealth and asset management businesses in the uK and overseas.
international comprises retail businesses, principally in continental Europe.
insurance provides long-term savings, protection and investment products distributed through the bancassurance, intermediary and direct channels in the uK.
it is also a distributor of home insurance in the uK with products sold through the retail branch network, direct channels and strategic corporate partners.
The business consists of life, Pensions and investments uK: life, Pensions and investments Europe: and General insurance.
Other includes the costs of managing the Groups technology platforms, branch and head office property estate, operations including payments, banking operations and collections and sourcing, the costs of which are predominantly recharged to the other divisions.
it also reflects other items not recharged to the divisions, including hedge ineffectiveness, uK bank levy, Financial services compensation scheme costs, gains on liability management, volatile items such as hedge accounting volatility managed centrally, and other gains from the structural hedging of interest rate risk.
inter-segment services are generally recharged at cost, with the exception of the internal commission arrangements between the uK branch and other distribution networks and the insurance product manufacturing businesses within the Group, where a profit margin is also charged.
inter-segment lending and deposits are generally entered into at market rates, except that non-interest bearing balances are priced at a rate that reflects the external yield that could be earned on such funds.
For the majority of those derivative contracts entered into by business units for risk management purposes, the business unit recognises the net interest income or expense on an accrual accounting basis and transfers the remainder of the movement in the fair value of the derivative to the central group segment where the resulting accounting volatility is managed where possible through the establishment of hedge accounting relationships.
Any change in fair value of the hedged instrument attributable to the hedged risk is also recorded within the central group segment.
This allocation of the fair value of the swap and change in fair value of the hedged instrument attributable to the hedged risk avoids accounting asymmetry in segmental results and leads to accounting volatility in the central group segment where it is managed.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 230 231 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 4: Segmental analysis continued Wealth, Asset Commercial Finance and Reported Retail Banking international insurance Other basis total m m m m m m year ended 31 December 2012 net interest income 7,195 2,206 799 78 213 10,335 Other income net of fee and commission expense 1,462 2,932 2,043 2,294 315 8,416 insurance claims 365 365 Total underlying income, net of insurance claims 8,657 5,138 2,842 1,851 102 18,386 Total costs 4,199 2,516 2,291 744 332 10,082 impairment 1,270 2,946 1,480 1 5,697 Underlying profit loss 3,188 324 929 1,107 435 2,607 Asset sales 464 196 3,207 2,547 Volatile items 138 886 748 liability management 229 229 Fair value unwind 482 888 51 42 627 650 Management basis profit loss 3,670 238 1,176 1,065 1,030 4,827 External revenue 10,951 4,070 2,835 2,497 1,967 18,386 inter-segment revenue 2,294 1,068 7 646 1,865 Segment revenue 8,657 5,138 2,842 1,851 102 18,386 Segment external assets 346,030 314,090 76,449 143,851 44,132 924,552 Segment customer deposits 260,838 114,115 51,885 74 426,912 Segment external liabilities 287,631 249,097 91,251 134,963 116,926 879,868 Other segment items reflected in income statement above: depreciation and amortisation 345 219 815 95 90 1,564 decrease increase in value of in-force business 4 273 269 defined benefit scheme charges 103 54 36 23 148 68 Other segment items: Additions to tangible fixed assets 143 67 1,732 378 683 3,003 investments in joint ventures and associates at end of year 185 113 6 9 313 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 230 231 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 4: Segmental analysis continued Wealth, Asset commercial Finance and Reported Retail Banking international insurance Other basis total m m m m m m 1 Year ended 31 december 2011 net interest income 7,497 3,192 1,003 67 585 12,210 Other income net of fee and commission expense 1,660 2,806 2,230 2,687 204 9,179 insurance claims 343 343 Total underlying income, net of insurance claims 9,157 5,998 3,233 2,277 381 21,046 Total costs 4,438 2,600 2,414 812 357 10,621 impairment 1,970 4,210 3,604 3 9,787 underlying profit loss 2,749 812 2,785 1,465 21 638 Asset sales 48 61 21 196 284 Volatile items 736 2 738 liability management 1,295 1,295 Fair value unwind 839 1,562 122 43 1,274 1,206 Management basis profit loss 3,636 75 2,684 1,422 236 2,685 External revenue 12,230 3,889 3,863 2,910 1,846 21,046 inter-segment revenue 3,073 2,109 630 633 2,227 segment revenue 9,157 5,998 3,233 2,277 381 21,046 segment external assets 356,295 350,711 73,345 140,754 49,441 970,546 segment customer deposits 247,088 123,822 41,661 1,335 413,906 segment external liabilities 279,162 294,088 73,635 129,350 147,717 923,952 Other segment items reflected in income statement above: depreciation and amortisation 364 244 836 91 67 1,602 increase decrease in value of in-force business 3 625 622 defined benefit scheme charges 121 54 37 23 36 199 Other segment items: Additions to tangible fixed assets 189 197 1,452 451 806 3,095 investments in joint ventures and associates at end of year 147 155 29 3 334 1 Restated as explained on page 229.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 232 233 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 4: Segmental analysis continued Wealth, Asset commercial Finance and Reported Retail Banking international insurance Other basis total m m m m m m 1 Year ended 31 december 2010 net interest income 8,648 3,820 1,204 39 510 14,143 Other income net of fee and commission expense 1,624 3,009 2,397 2,789 62 9,757 insurance claims 542 542 Total underlying income, net of insurance claims 10,272 6,829 3,601 2,208 448 23,358 Total costs 4,644 2,897 2,533 854 150 11,078 impairment 2,747 5,714 4,720 13,181 underlying profit loss 2,881 1,782 3,652 1,354 298 901 Asset sales 401 37 15 43 496 Volatile items 3 273 270 liability management 423 423 Fair value unwind 1,105 2,476 372 43 1,446 2,464 Management basis profit loss 3,986 1,098 3,243 1,326 955 2,212 External revenue 13,620 3,297 5,102 2,613 1,274 23,358 inter-segment revenue 3,348 3,532 1,501 405 1,722 segment revenue 10,272 6,829 3,601 2,208 448 23,358 Other segment items reflected in income statement above: depreciation and amortisation 384 290 930 135 64 1,803 increase in value of in-force business 2 787 789 defined benefit scheme charges 176 70 55 28 126 455 Other segment items: Additions to tangible fixed assets 126 496 1,232 585 777 3,216 investments in joint ventures and associates at end of year 139 127 158 5 429 1 Restated as explained on page 229.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 232 233 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 4: Segmental analysis continued Reconciliation of reported basis to statutory results The reported basis is the basis on which financial information is presented to the chief operating decision maker which excludes certain items included in the statutory results.
The table below reconciles the statutory results to the reported basis.
Removal of: Lloyds volatility Banking Acquisition arising Group related and in insurance insurance Regulatory Fair value Reported 1 2 statutory other items businesses gross up provisions unwind basis m m m m m m m year ended 31 December 2012 net interest income 9,075 199 8 1,230 237 10,335 Other income 29,831 1,691 298 19,433 50 43 8,416 insurance claims 18,396 18,031 365 Total underlying income, net of insurance claims 20,510 1,890 306 172 50 194 18,386 Operating expenses 15,931 1,478 172 4,175 24 10,082 impairment 5,149 320 868 5,697 Underlying loss profit 570 92 306 4,225 650 2,607 Asset sales 2,547 2,547 Volatile items 748 748 liability management 229 229 Fair value unwind 650 650 Loss profit 570 1,478 306 4,225 4,827 1 comprises the effects of asset sales gain of 2,547 million, volatile items loss of 748 million, liability management loss of 229 million, simplification costs related to severance, iT and business costs of implementation 676 million, Ec mandated retail business disposal costs 570 million, the amortisation of purchased intangibles 482 million and the past service pensions credit 250 million, see note 11.
2 comprises the payment protection insurance provision 3,575 million and other regulatory provisions 650 million.
Removal of: lloyds Volatility Banking Acquisition arising in Group related and insurance insurance Regulatory Fair value Reported 1 2 statutory other items businesses gross up provisions unwind basis m m m m m m m Year ended 31 december 2011 net interest income 12,698 843 19 336 710 12,210 Other income 14,145 2 857 5,530 295 9,179 insurance claims 6,041 5,698 343 Total underlying income, net of insurance claims 20,802 841 838 168 415 21,046 Operating expenses 16,250 2,014 168 3,375 72 10,621 impairment 8,094 1,693 9,787 underlying loss profit 3,542 1,173 838 3,375 1,206 638 Asset sales 284 284 Volatile items 738 738 liability management 1,295 1,295 Fair value unwind - 1,206 1,206 loss profit 3,542 2,014 838 3,375 2,685 1 comprises the effects of asset sales gain of 284 million, volatile items loss of 738 million, liability management gain of 1,295 million, integration and simplification costs related to severance, iT and business costs of implementation 1,282 million, Ec mandated retail business disposal costs 170 million and the amortisation of purchased intangibles 562 million.
2 comprises the payment protection insurance provision 3,200 million and other regulatory provisions 175 million.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 234 235 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 4: Segmental analysis continued Removal of: Regulatory lloyds Volatility provisions Banking Acquisition arising in and loss on Group related and insurance insurance disposal of Fair value Reported 1 2 statutory other items businesses gross up businesses unwind basis m m m m m m m Year ended 31 december 2010 net interest income 12,546 321 26 949 301 14,143 Other income 31,410 970 332 19,739 612 9,757 insurance claims 19,088 18,544 2 542 Total underlying income, net of insurance claims 24,868 649 306 246 309 23,358 Operating expenses 13,270 1,372 246 500 74 11,078 impairment 10,952 2,229 13,181 loss on disposal of businesses 365 365 underlying profit loss 281 723 306 865 2,464 901 Asset sales 496 496 Volatile items 270 270 liability management 423 423 Fair value unwind 2,464 2,464 Profit loss 281 1,372 306 865 2,212 1 comprises the effects of asset sales gain of 496 million, volatile items loss of 270 million, liability management gain of 423 million, the pension curtailment gain 910 million, see note 11, integration costs related to severance, iT and business costs of implementation 1,653 million and the amortisation of purchased intangibles 629 million.
2 comprises regulatory provisions 500 million and the loss on disposal of businesses 365 million.
Geographical areas The Groups activities are focused in the uK and the analyses of income and assets below are based on the location of the branch or entity recording the income or assets.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 234 235 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 5: net interest income Weighted average effective interest rate 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 % % % m m m interest and similar income: loans and advances to customers, excluding lease and hire purchase receivables 3.91 4.00 4.37 20,928 23,208 25,459 loans and advances to banks 0.53 0.78 0.72 590 628 512 debt securities held as loans and receivables 4.77 3.17 4.41 433 590 1,377 lease and hire purchase receivables 5.35 5.13 6.74 672 742 626 interest receivable on loans and receivables 3.39 3.63 4.03 22,623 25,168 27,974 Available-for-sale financial assets 1.99 2.58 2.88 624 886 1,311 Held-to-maturity investments 2.80 3.29 2.51 288 262 55 Total interest and similar income 3.32 3.58 3.95 23,535 26,316 29,340 interest and similar expense: deposits from banks, excluding liabilities under sale and repurchase transactions 1.14 0.80 0.78 324 222 319 customer deposits, excluding liabilities under sale and repurchase transactions 1.69 1.66 1.56 6,637 6,080 5,381 debt securities in issue 2.04 2.22 2.49 3,043 5,045 5,833 subordinated liabilities 7.41 6.35 10.98 2,783 2,155 3,619 liabilities under sale and repurchase agreements 1.47 1.39 1.18 245 335 744 interest payable on liabilities held at amortised cost 2.08 2.04 2.22 13,032 13,837 15,896 Other 7.40 1.14 6.97 1,428 219 898 Total interest and similar expense 2.24 1.95 2.31 14,460 13,618 16,794 net interest income 9,075 12,698 12,546 included within interest and similar income is 1,133 million 2011: 1,405 million: 2010: 1,288 million in respect of impaired financial assets.
net interest income also includes a credit of 92 million 2011: charge of 70 million: 2010: charge of 932 million transferred from the cash flow hedging reserve see note 48. during February 2012, the Group completed the exchange of certain subordinated debt securities issued by the HBOs group for new subordinated debt securities issued by lloyds TsB Bank plc by undertaking an exchange offer on certain securities which were eligible for call during 2012.
As part of the exchange, the Group announced that all decisions to exercise calls on those original securities that remained outstanding following the exchange offer would be made with reference to the prevailing regulatory, economic and market conditions at the time.
These securities will not, therefore, be called at their first available call date which will lead to coupons continuing to be being paid until possibly the final redemption date of the securities.
consequently, the Group is required to adjust the carrying amount of these securities to reflect the revised estimated cash flows over their revised life and to recognise this change in carrying value in interest expense.
included within net interest income in the year ended 31 december 2012 is a credit of 109 million in respect of the securities that remained outstanding following the exchange offer 2011: gain following a similar adjustment to carrying value of 570 million: 2010: nil.
in december 2011, the Group decided to defer payment of non-mandatory coupons on certain securities and, instead, settle them using an Alternative coupon satisfaction Mechanism on their contractual terms.
This change in expected cash flows resulted in a gain of 126 million in net interest income in the year ended 31 december 2011 from the recalculation of the carrying value of these securities.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 236 237 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 6: net fee and commission income 2012 2011 2010 m m m Fee and commission income: current accounts 1,008 1,053 1,086 credit and debit card fees 941 877 812 Other 2,782 3,005 3,094 Total fee and commission income 4,731 4,935 4,992 Fee and commission expense 1,438 1,391 1,682 net fee and commission income 3,293 3,544 3,310 As discussed in note 2, fees and commissions which are an integral part of the effective interest rate form part of net interest income shown in note 5.
Fees and commissions relating to instruments that are held at fair value through profit or loss are included within net trading income shown in note 7. note 7: net trading income 2012 2011 2010 m m m Foreign exchange translation losses gains 167 317 70 Gains on foreign exchange trading transactions 502 341 377 Total foreign exchange 335 658 447 investment property losses gains note 27 264 107 434 securities and other gains losses see below 13,483 919 14,843 net trading income expense 13,554 368 15,724 securities and other gains losses comprise net gains losses arising on assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss and for trading as follows: 2012 2011 2010 m m m net income expense arising on assets held at fair value through profit or loss: debt securities, loans and advances 3,616 5,293 2,292 Equity shares 10,099 4,917 10,333 Total net income arising on assets held at fair value through profit or loss 13,715 376 12,625 net expense arising on liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss debt securities in issue 576 230 231 Total net gains arising on assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss 13,139 146 12,394 net gains losses on financial instruments held for trading 344 1,065 2,449 Securities and other gains losses 13,483 919 14,843 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 236 237 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 8: insurance premium income 2012 2011 2010 m m m Life insurance Gross premiums 7,391 7,276 7,026 ceded reinsurance premiums 222 322 253 net earned premiums 7,169 6,954 6,773 non-life insurance Gross written premiums 1,081 1,198 1,332 ceded reinsurance premiums 31 52 104 net written premiums 1,050 1,146 1,228 change in provision for unearned premiums note 37 2 72 70 156 change in provision for ceded unearned premiums note 37 2 7 9 net earned premiums 1,115 1,216 1,375 Total net earned premiums 8,284 8,170 8,148 life insurance gross premiums can be further analysed as follows: 2012 2011 2010 m m m life and pensions 6,755 6,737 6,428 Annuities 630 529 583 Other 6 10 15 Gross premiums 7,391 7,276 7,026 non-life insurance gross written premiums can be further analysed as follows: 2012 2011 2010 m m m credit protection 173 231 363 Home 904 963 964 Health 4 4 5 Gross written premiums 1,081 1,198 1,332 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 238 239 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 9: Other operating income 2012 2011 2010 m m m Operating lease rental income 1,145 1,268 1,410 Rental income from investment properties note 27 389 388 337 Other rents receivable 27 34 41 Gains less losses on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets note 48 3,547 343 399 Movement in value of in-force business note 29 269 622 789 liability management see below 338 599 423 share of results of joint ventures and associates note 13 28 31 88 Other 367 758 917 Total other operating income 4,700 2,799 4,228 Liability management during February 2012, the Group completed the exchange of certain subordinated debt securities issued by the HBOs group for new subordinated debt securities issued by lloyds TsB Bank plc by undertaking an exchange offer on certain securities which were eligible for call during 2012.
This exchange resulted in a gain on the extinguishment of the existing securities of 59 million being the difference between the carrying amount of the securities extinguished and the fair value of the new securities issued together with related fees and costs.
Additionally, during the second half of 2012 losses totalling 397 million arose on the buy-back of other debt securities.
during december 2011, the Group completed the exchange of certain subordinated debt securities which resulted in a gain on extinguishment of the existing securities of 599 million.
during 2010, lloyds Banking Group plc issued ordinary shares in exchange for certain existing securities, resulting in total gains of 403 million.
Also during 2010 the Group entered into a bilateral exchange in respect of certain Enhanced capital notes on which a profit of 20 million arose.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 238 239 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 10: insurance claims insurance claims comprise: 2012 2011 2010 m m m Life insurance and participating investment contracts claims and surrenders: Gross 8,719 8,622 9,397 Reinsurers share 185 230 159 8,534 8,392 9,238 change in insurance and participating investment contracts note 37 1 : change in gross liabilities 4,284 1,383 4,622 change in assets arising from reinsurance contracts held 186 451 256 4,470 1,834 4,366 change in non-participating investment contracts: change in gross liabilities 5,058 520 5,449 change in assets arising from reinsurance contracts held 65 5,058 520 5,384 change in unallocated surplus note 40 31 340 439 Total life insurance and participating investment contracts 18,031 5,698 18,549 non-life insurance claims and claims paid: Gross 439 521 470 Reinsurers share 1 4 11 438 517 459 change in liabilities note 37 2 : Gross 74 186 82 Reinsurers share 1 12 2 73 174 80 Total non-life insurance 365 343 539 Total insurance claims 18,396 6,041 19,088 life insurance and participating investment contracts gross claims can also be analysed as follows: deaths 618 625 662 Maturities 2,238 1,861 1,763 surrenders 4,795 5,041 5,904 Annuities 789 764 741 Other 279 331 327 Total life insurance gross claims 8,719 8,622 9,397 A non-life insurance claims development table is included in note 37.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 240 241 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 11: Operating expenses 2012 2011 2010 m m m staff costs: salaries 3,411 3,784 3,787 Performance-based compensation 395 361 533 social security costs 383 432 396 Pensions and other post-retirement benefit schemes note 42 : 1 Past service credits and curtailment gains 250 910 Other 547 401 628 297 401 282 Restructuring costs 217 124 119 Other staff costs 746 1,064 1,069 5,449 6,166 5,622 Premises and equipment: Rent and rates 488 547 602 Hire of equipment 17 22 18 Repairs and maintenance 174 188 199 Other 270 294 358 949 1,051 1,177 Other expenses: communications and data processing 1,082 954 1,126 Advertising and promotion 314 398 362 Professional fees 550 576 742 uK bank levy 179 189 Financial services compensation scheme levy note 53 175 179 46 Other 932 1,122 1,061 3,232 3,418 3,337 depreciation and amortisation: depreciation of tangible fixed assets note 31 1,431 1,434 1,635 Amortisation of acquired value of in-force non-participating investment contracts note 29 79 78 76 Amortisation of other intangible assets note 30 616 663 721 2,126 2,175 2,432 impairment of tangible fixed assets note 31 65 202 Total operating expenses, excluding regulatory provisions 11,756 12,875 12,770 Regulatory provisions: Payment protection insurance provision note 44 3,575 3,200 2 Other regulatory provisions note 44 600 175 500 4,175 3,375 500 Total operating expenses 15,931 16,250 13,270 1 Following a review of policy in respect of discretionary pension increases in relation to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, increases in certain schemes are now linked to the consumer Price index rather than the Retail Price index.
The impact of this change is a reduction in the Groups defined benefit obligation of 258 million, recognised in the Groups income statement in 2012, net of a charge of 8 million resulting from a change to the commutation factors in one of the Groups smaller schemes.
Following changes by the Group to the terms of its defined benefit pension schemes in 2010, all future increases to pensionable salary will be capped each year at the lower of: Retail Prices index inflation: each employees actual percentage increase in pay: and 2 per cent of pensionable pay.
in addition to this, during the second half of 2010 there was a change in commutation factors in certain defined benefit schemes.
The combined effect of these changes was a reduction in the Groups defined benefit obligation of 1,081 million and a reduction in the Groups unrecognised actuarial losses of 171 million, resulting in a net curtailment gain of 910 million recognised in the income statement in 2010 and a reduction in the balance sheet liability.
2 in addition, regulatory provisions of 50 million 2011: nil: 2010: nil have been charged against income.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 240 241 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 11: Operating expenses continued Performance-based compensation The table below analyses the Groups performance-based compensation costs excluding branch-based sales incentives between those relating to the current performance year and those relating to earlier years.
2012 2011 2010 m m m Performance-based compensation expense comprises: Awards made in respect of the year ended 31 december 362 363 505 Awards made in respect of earlier years 33 2 28 395 361 533 Performance-based compensation expense deferred until later years comprises: Awards made in respect of the year ended 31 december 37 43 39 Awards made in respect of earlier years 15 29 39 52 72 78 Performance-based awards expensed in 2012 include cash awards amounting to 128 million 2011: 160 million: 2010: 163 million.
Average headcount The average number of persons on a headcount basis employed by the Group during the year was as follows: 2012 2011 2010 uK 110,295 116,371 118,149 Overseas 3,322 4,078 4,830 Total 113,617 120,449 122,979 Fees payable to the auditors Fees payable to the companys auditors by the Group are as follows: 2012 2011 2010 m m m Fees payable for the audit of the companys current year annual report 1.6 1.7 1.9 Fees payable for other services: Audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 15.7 16.9 17.9 Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 4.5 4.8 6.2 Total audit fees 21.8 23.4 26.0 Other services audit related fees 1.7 2.9 1.8 Total audit and audit related fees 23.5 26.3 27.8 services relating to taxation: Taxation compliance services 0.2 0.2 0.3 All other taxation advisory services 0.6 0.9 0.7 0.8 1.1 1.0 Other non-audit fees: services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.5 6.3 1.9 Other services 2.2 2.6 9.7 Total other non-audit fees 2.7 8.9 11.6 Total fees payable to the Companys auditors by the Group 27.0 36.3 40.4 The following types of services are included in the categories listed above: Audit fees: This category includes fees in respect of the audit of the Groups annual financial statements and other services in connection with regulatory filings.
Other services supplied pursuant to legislation relate primarily to the costs associated with the sarbanes-Oxley Act audit requirements together with the cost of the audit of the Groups Form 20-F filing.
Audit related fees: This category includes fees in respect of services for assurance and related services that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of the financial statements, for example acting as reporting accountants in respect of prospectuses and circulars required by the uKlA listing rules.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 242 243 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 11: Operating expenses continued Services relating to taxation: This category includes tax compliance and tax advisory services.
Other non-audit fees: This category includes due diligence relating to corporate finance, including venture capital transactions and other assurance and advisory services.
it is the Groups policy to use the auditors on assignments in cases where their knowledge of the Group means that it is neither efficient nor cost effective to employ another firm of accountants.
such assignments typically relate to the provision of advice on tax issues, assistance in transactions involving the acquisition and disposal of businesses and accounting advice.
The Group has procedures that are designed to ensure auditor independence, including that fees for audit and non-audit services are approved in advance.
This approval can be obtained either on an individual engagement basis or, for certain types of non-audit services, particularly those of a recurring nature, through the approval of a fee cap covering all engagements of that type provided the fee is below that cap.
All statutory audit work as well as non-audit assignments where the fee is expected to exceed the relevant fee cap must be pre-approved by the Audit committee on an individual engagement basis.
On a quarterly basis, the Audit committee receives a report detailing all preapproved services and amounts paid to the auditors for such pre-approved services.
during the year, the auditors also earned fees payable by entities outside the consolidated lloyds Banking Group in respect of the following: 2012 2011 2010 m m m Audits of Group pension schemes 0.4 0.4 0.3 Audits of the unconsolidated Open Ended investment companies managed by the Group 0.8 0.6 0.8 Reviews of the financial position of corporate and other borrowers 5.4 11.0 17.2 Acquisition due diligence and other work performed in respect of potential venture capital investments 0.7 1.0 1.2 note 12: impairment 2012 2011 2010 m m m impairment losses on loans and receivables: loans and advances to banks 13 loans and advances to customers 5,125 8,020 10,727 debt securities classified as loans and receivables 4 49 57 Total impairment losses on loans and receivables note 24 5,121 8,069 10,771 impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 37 80 106 Other credit risk provisions note 44 9 55 75 Total impairment charged to the income statement 5,149 8,094 10,952 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 242 243 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 13: investments in joint ventures and associates The Groups share of results of and investments in joint ventures and associates comprises: Joint ventures Associates Total 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m m m m m share of income statement amounts: income 278 316 318 63 160 135 341 476 453 Expenses 229 261 209 68 161 91 297 422 300 impairment 6 20 126 1 1 92 7 19 218 Profit loss before tax 43 35 17 6 48 37 35 65 Tax 9 4 22 1 9 4 23 Share of post-tax results 34 31 39 6 49 28 31 88 share of balance sheet amounts: current assets 3,103 3,346 3,370 127 246 378 3,230 3,592 3,748 non-current assets 1,596 2,148 2,868 581 976 1,184 2,177 3,124 4,052 current liabilities 729 714 588 128 293 433 857 1,007 1,021 non-current liabilities 3,672 4,471 5,324 565 904 1,026 4,237 5,375 6,350 Share of net assets at 31 December 298 309 326 15 25 103 313 334 429 Movement in investments over the year: At 1 January 309 326 370 25 103 109 334 429 479 Exchange and other adjustments 2 3 8 1 1 40 3 4 32 Additional investments 10 7 71 1 3 6 11 10 77 disposals 44 47 68 6 79 2 50 126 70 share of post-tax results 34 31 39 6 49 28 31 88 dividends paid 13 5 1 1 13 6 1 Share of net assets at 31 December 298 309 326 15 25 103 313 334 429 during 2012, the Group recognised a net 10 million 2011: 8 million of losses of associates not previously recognised.
The Groups unrecognised share of losses of associates during 2010 was 8 million and of joint ventures is 126 million in 2012 2011: 85 million: 2010: 180 million.
For entities making losses, subsequent profits earned are not recognised until previously unrecognised losses are extinguished.
The Groups unrecognised share of losses net of unrecognised profits on a cumulative basis of associates is 31 million 2011: 56 million: 2010: 104 million and of joint ventures is 330 million 2011: 299 million: 2010: 339 million.
The Groups principal joint venture investment at 31 december 2012 was in sainsburys Bank plc: the Group owns 50 per cent of the ordinary share capital of sainsburys Bank plc, whose business is banking and principal area of operation is the uK.
sainsburys Bank plc is incorporated in the uK and the Groups interest is held by a subsidiary.
Where entities have statutory accounts drawn up to a date other than 31 december management accounts are used when accounting for them by the Group.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 244 245 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 14: Loss on disposal of businesses in 2010 during 2009, the Group acquired an oil drilling rig construction business through a previous lending relationship and consolidated the results and net assets of the business from the date it exercised control.
in the first half of 2010, as a result of a deteriorating market, the Group impaired the oil drilling rigs under construction held by the business by 150 million to reflect their reduced value in use.
in the second half of 2010, the Group reached agreement to dispose of its interests in the two wholly-owned subsidiary companies through which this business operates: the sale was completed in January 2011.
These companies, which had gross assets of 860 million, were sold to seadrill limited: a loss of 365 million arose on disposal.
The Group extended vendor financing, on normal commercial terms and negotiated on an arms length basis, to seadrill to facilitate the acquisition of the rig holding companies.
The loan is not contingent on the performance of the oil rigs under construction.
Accordingly, at 31 december 2010, the subsidiaries were derecognised.
note 15: Taxation A Analysis of tax charge credit for the year 2012 2011 2010 m m m uK corporation tax: current tax on profit for the year 175 93 146 Adjustments in respect of prior years 58 146 310 117 239 164 double taxation relief 1 117 239 165 Foreign tax: current tax on profit for the year 86 90 82 Adjustments in respect of prior years 8 36 49 94 54 33 current tax charge credit 211 293 132 deferred tax note 43 : Origination and reversal of temporary differences 339 1,621 393 Reduction in uK corporation tax rate 308 404 137 Adjustments in respect of prior years 85 96 141 562 1,121 671 Tax charge credit 773 828 539 The charge for tax on the profit for 2012 is based on a uK corporation tax rate of 24.5 per cent 2011: 26.5 per cent: 2010: 28.0 per cent.
The income tax charge is made up as follows: 2012 2011 2010 m m m Tax charge credit attributable to policyholders 944 72 315 shareholder tax credit charge 171 756 224 Tax charge credit 773 828 539 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 244 245 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 15 Taxation continued B Factors affecting the tax credit charge for the year A reconciliation of the credit charge that would result from applying the standard uK corporation tax rate to the loss profit before tax to the actual tax charge credit for the year is given below: 2012 2011 2010 m m m loss profit before tax 570 3,542 281 Tax credit charge thereon at uK corporation tax rate of 24.5 per cent 2011: 26.5 per cent: 2010: 28.0 per cent 140 939 79 Factors affecting credit charge : uK corporation tax rate change 308 404 137 disallowed and non-taxable items 54 277 5 Overseas tax rate differences 75 17 134 Gains exempted or covered by capital losses 36 106 65 Policyholder tax 139 160 227 1 Further factors affecting the life business : derecognition of deferred tax on policyholder tax credit 583 146 Taxation of certain insurance assets arising on transition to new tax regime 221 changes to the taxation of pension business: Policyholder tax cost 182 shareholder tax benefit 206 Tax losses where no deferred tax recognised 13 261 487 deferred tax on tax losses not previously recognised 332 Adjustments in respect of previous years 135 206 218 Effect of results of joint ventures and associates 23 8 25 Other items 4 6 6 Tax charge credit on loss profit on ordinary activities 773 828 539 1 The Finance Act 2012 introduced a new uK tax regime for the taxation of life insurance companies which takes effect from 1 January 2013.
The new regime, combined with current economic forecasts, has had a number of impacts on the tax charge.
note 16: earnings per share 2012 2011 2010 m m m loss attributable to equity shareholders basic and diluted 1,427 2,787 320 2012 2011 2010 million million million Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue basic 69,841 68,470 67,117 Adjustment for share options and awards Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue diluted 69,841 68,470 67,117 Basic loss per share 2.0 p 4.1 p 0.5 p diluted loss per share 2.0 p 4.1 p 0.5 p Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, which has been calculated after deducting 13 million 2011: 10 million: 2010: 8 million ordinary shares representing the Groups holdings of own shares in respect of employee share schemes.
For the calculation of diluted earnings per share the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, if any, that arise in respect of share options and awards granted to employees.
The number of shares that could have been acquired at the average annual share price of the companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options and awards is determined.
This is deducted from the number of shares issuable under such options and awards to leave a residual bonus amount of shares which are added to the weighted-average number of ordinary shares in issue, but no adjustment is made to the profit attributable to equity shareholders.
The weighted-average number of anti-dilutive share options and awards excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share was 37 million at 31 december 2012 2011: 619 million: 2010: 92 million.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 246 247 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 17: Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss These assets are comprised as follows: 2012 2011 Other financial Other financial assets at fair assets at fair Trading value through Trading value through assets profit or loss Total assets profit or loss Total m m m m m m loans and advances to customers 13,598 34 13,632 9,642 124 9,766 loans and advances to banks 919 919 1,355 1,355 debt securities: Government securities 3,965 16,766 20,731 2,000 21,367 23,367 Other public sector securities 1,056 1,056 1,183 1,183 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 3,166 228 3,394 2,863 385 3,248 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 130 708 838 99 612 711 Other asset-backed securities 21 1,802 1,823 222 1,764 1,986 corporate and other debt securities 1,172 23,686 24,858 1,576 20,282 21,858 8,454 44,246 52,700 6,760 45,593 52,353 Equity shares 86,309 86,309 75,737 75,737 Treasury and other bills 374 56 430 299 299 Total 23,345 130,645 153,990 18,056 121,454 139,510 Other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include the following assets designated into that category: i financial assets backing insurance contracts and investment contracts of 127,907 million 2011: 118,890 million which are so designated because the related liabilities either have cash flows that are contractually based on the performance of the assets or are contracts whose measurement takes account of current market conditions and where significant measurement inconsistencies would otherwise arise: ii loans and advances to customers of 34 million 2011: 124 million which are economically hedged by interest rate derivatives which are not in hedge accounting relationships and where significant measurement inconsistencies would otherwise arise if the related derivatives were treated as trading liabilities and the loans and advances were carried at amortised cost: and iii private equity investments of 2,110 million 2011: 1,850 million that are managed, and evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy and reported to key management personnel on that basis.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 december 2012 of the loans and advances to banks and customers designated at fair value through profit or loss was 34 million 2011: 124 million : the Group does not hold any credit derivatives or other instruments in mitigation of this risk.
There was no significant movement in the fair value of these loans attributable to changes in credit risk which is determined by reference to the publicly available credit ratings of the instruments involved.
included in the amounts reported above are reverse repurchase agreements treated as collateralised loans with a carrying value of 14,433 million 2011: 10,990 million.
collateral is held with a fair value of 19,629 million 2011: 15,765 million, all of which the Group is able to repledge.
At 31 december 2012, 15,640 million had been repledged 2011: 3,740 million.
For amounts included above which are subject to repurchase agreements see note 55.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 246 247 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 18: Derivative financial instruments The Group holds derivatives as part of the following strategies: customer driven, where derivatives are held as part of the provision of risk management products to Group customers: To manage and hedge the Groups interest rate and foreign exchange risk arising from normal banking business.
The hedge accounting strategy adopted by the Group is to utilise a combination of fair value and cash flow hedge approaches as described in note 55: and derivatives held in policyholder funds as permitted by the investment strategies of those funds.
derivatives are classified as trading except those designated as effective hedging instruments which meet the criteria under iAs 39. derivatives are held at fair value on the Groups balance sheet.
A description of the methodology used to determine the fair value of derivative financial instruments and the effect of using reasonably possible alternative assumptions for those derivatives valued using unobservable inputs is set out in note 54.
The principal derivatives used by the Group are as follows: interest rate related contracts include interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and options.
An interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange fixed and floating interest payments, based upon interest rates defined in the contract, without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts.
Forward rate agreements are contracts for the payment of the difference between a specified rate of interest and a reference rate, applied to a notional principal amount at a specific date in the future.
An interest rate option gives the buyer, on payment of a premium, the right, but not the obligation, to fix the rate of interest on a future loan or deposit, for a specified period and commencing on a specified future date.
Exchange rate related contracts include forward foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and options.
A forward foreign exchange contract is an agreement to buy or sell a specified amount of foreign currency on a specified future date at an agreed rate.
currency swaps generally involve the exchange of interest payment obligations denominated in different currencies: the exchange of principal can be notional or actual.
A currency option gives the buyer, on payment of a premium, the right, but not the obligation, to sell specified amounts of currency at agreed rates of exchange on or before a specified future date.
credit derivatives, principally credit default swaps, are used by the Group as part of its trading activity and to manage its own exposure to credit risk.
A credit default swap is a swap in which one counterparty receives a premium at pre-set intervals in consideration for guaranteeing to make a specific payment should a negative credit event take place.
The Group also uses credit default swaps to securitise, in combination with external funding, 2,829 million 2011: 3,436 million of corporate and commercial banking loans.
Equity derivatives are also used by the Group as part of its equity-based retail product activity to eliminate the Groups exposure to fluctuations in various international stock exchange indices.
index-linked equity options are purchased which give the Group the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a specified amount of equities, or basket of equities, in the form of published indices on or before a specified future date.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 248 249 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 18: Derivative financial instruments continued The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments are set out in the following table: Contract notional Fair value Fair value amount assets liabilities m m m At 31 December 2012 Trading and other Exchange rate contracts: spot, forwards and futures 815,759 1,432 1,599 currency swaps 107,217 1,689 1,683 Options purchased 330,843 591 Options written 21,757 605 1,275,576 3,712 3,887 interest rate contracts: interest rate swaps 2,071,103 32,819 31,880 Forward rate agreements 1,836,186 494 593 Options purchased 105,245 4,463 Options written 115,516 4,051 Futures 53,529 2 2 4,181,579 37,778 36,526 credit derivatives 6,167 94 343 Embedded equity conversion feature 1,421 Equity and other contracts 23,714 1,974 1,311 Total derivative assets liabilities trading and other 5,487,036 44,979 42,067 Hedging derivatives designated as fair value hedges: currency swaps 56,188 817 356 interest rate swaps 135,516 6,018 1,772 Options written 68 68 191,772 6,903 2,128 derivatives designated as cash flow hedges: interest rate swaps 86,190 4,653 4,438 Futures 49,527 1 currency swaps 2,395 14 32 138,112 4,668 4,470 Total derivative assets liabilities hedging 329,884 11,571 6,598 Total recognised derivative assets liabilities 5,816,920 56,550 48,665 The principal amount of the contract does not represent the Groups real exposure to credit risk which is limited to the current cost of replacing contracts with a positive value to the Group should the counterparty default.
To reduce credit risk the Group uses a variety of credit enhancement techniques such as netting and collateralisation, where security is provided against the exposure.
Further details are provided in note 55 credit risk.
The embedded equity conversion feature of 1,421 million 2011: 1,172 million reflects the value of the equity conversion feature contained in the Enhanced capital notes issued by the Group in 2009: the gain of 249 million arising from the change in fair value over 2012 2011: loss of 5 million: 2010: loss of 620 million is included within net gains on financial instruments held for trading within net trading income note 7.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 248 249 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 18: Derivative financial instruments continued contract notional Fair value Fair value amount assets liabilities m m m At 31 december 2011 Trading and other Exchange rate contracts: spot, forwards and futures 204,629 2,542 2,780 currency swaps 138,120 3,498 2,027 Options purchased 17,992 610 Options written 18,924 616 379,665 6,650 5,423 interest rate contracts: interest rate swaps 1,627,013 38,806 39,899 Forward rate agreements 1,311,811 586 606 Options purchased 69,554 3,693 Options written 67,858 3,524 Futures 118,921 1 2 3,195,157 43,086 44,031 credit derivatives 9,980 238 328 Embedded equity conversion feature 1,172 Equity and other contracts 23,032 2,017 1,184 Total derivative assets liabilities trading and other 3,607,834 53,163 50,966 Hedging derivatives designated as fair value hedges: currency swaps 19,130 708 302 interest rate swaps 93,215 6,720 1,236 Options written 657 9 113,002 7,428 1,547 derivatives designated as cash flow hedges: interest rate swaps 152,314 5,250 5,608 Futures 103,467 currency swaps 16,582 172 90 272,363 5,422 5,698 derivatives designated as net investment hedges: cross currency swaps 49 1 Total derivative assets liabilities hedging 385,414 12,850 7,246 Total recognised derivative assets liabilities 3,993,248 66,013 58,212 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 250 251 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 18: Derivative financial instruments continued Hedged cash flows For designated cash flow hedges the following table shows when the Groups hedged cash flows are expected to occur and when they will affect income.
Over 20 0-1 years 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5-10 years 10-20 years years Total 2012 m m m m m m m m m Hedged forecast cash flows expected to occur: Forecast receivable cash flows 214 241 271 139 67 163 37 33 1,165 Forecast payable cash flows 168 126 36 40 148 960 1,682 442 3,602 Hedged forecast cash flows affect profit or loss: Forecast receivable cash flows 254 287 256 95 51 157 32 33 1,165 Forecast payable cash flows 190 120 41 42 154 963 1,694 398 3,602 Over 20 0-1 years 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5-10 years 10-20 years years Total 2011 m m m m m m m m m Hedged forecast cash flows expected to occur: Forecast receivable cash flows 140 239 475 208 35 355 191 66 1,709 Forecast payable cash flows 178 181 63 81 78 1,394 1,163 354 3,492 Hedged forecast cash flows affect profit or loss: Forecast receivable cash flows 234 232 388 208 47 383 163 54 1,709 Forecast payable cash flows 224 154 53 81 145 1,475 1,110 250 3,492 There were no transactions for which cash flow hedge accounting had to be ceased in 2012 or 2011 as a result of the highly probable cash flows no longer being expected to occur.
note 19: Loans and advances to banks 2012 2011 m m lending to banks 591 1,810 Money market placements with banks 28,829 30,810 Total loans and advances to banks before allowance for impairment losses 29,420 32,620 Allowance for impairment losses note 24 3 14 Total loans and advances to banks 29,417 32,606 included in the amounts reported above are reverse repurchase agreements treated as collateralised loans with a carrying value of 662 million 2011: 508 million.
collateral is held with a fair value of 662 million 2011: 511 million, all of which the Group is able to repledge.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 250 251 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 20: Loans and advances to customers 2012 2011 m m Agriculture, forestry and fishing 5,531 5,198 Energy and water supply 3,321 4,013 Manufacturing 8,530 10,061 construction 7,526 9,722 Transport, distribution and hotels 26,568 32,882 Postal and telecommunications 1,397 1,896 Property companies 52,388 64,752 Financial, business and other services 49,190 64,046 Personal: Mortgages 337,879 348,210 Other 28,334 30,014 lease financing 6,477 7,800 Hire purchase 5,334 5,776 Total loans and advances to customers before allowance for impairment losses 532,475 584,370 Allowance for impairment losses note 24 15,250 18,732 Total loans and advances to customers 517,225 565,638 included in the amounts reported above are reverse repurchase agreements treated as collateralised loans with a carrying value of 5,087 million 2011: 16,835 million.
collateral is held with a fair value of 4,916 million 2011: 16,936 million, all of which the Group is able to repledge.
included within this are collateral balances in the form of cash provided in respect of reverse repurchase agreements amounting to 2 million 2011: 34 million.
loans and advances to customers include finance lease receivables, which may be analysed as follows: 2012 2011 m m Gross investment in finance leases, receivable: not later than 1 year 1,271 1,287 later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 2,049 3,126 later than 5 years 6,232 7,067 9,552 11,480 unearned future finance income on finance leases 3,027 3,594 Rentals received in advance 30 56 commitments for expenditure in respect of equipment to be leased 18 30 net investment in finance leases 6,477 7,800 The net investment in finance leases represents amounts recoverable as follows: 2012 2011 m m not later than 1 year 835 724 later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 1,491 2,307 later than 5 years 4,151 4,769 net investment in finance leases 6,477 7,800 Equipment leased to customers under finance leases primarily relates to structured financing transactions to fund the purchase of aircraft, ships and other large individual value items.
during 2012 and 2011 no contingent rentals in respect of finance leases were recognised in the income statement.
The allowance for uncollectable finance lease receivables included in the allowance for impairment losses is 33 million 2011: 92 million.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 252 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 20: Loans and advances to customers continued The unguaranteed residual values included in finance lease receivables were as follows: 2012 2011 m m not later than 1 year 49 56 later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 126 137 later than 5 years 14 20 Total unguaranteed residual values 189 213 note 21: Securitisations and covered bonds Securitisation programmes loans and advances to customers and debt securities classified as loans and receivables include loans securitised under the Groups securitisation programmes, the majority of which have been sold by subsidiary companies to bankruptcy remote special purpose entities sPEs.
As the sPEs are funded by the issue of debt on terms whereby the majority of the risks and rewards of the portfolio are retained by the subsidiary, the sPEs are consolidated fully and all of these loans are retained on the Groups balance sheet, with the related notes in issue included within debt securities in issue.
in addition to the sPEs described below, the Group sponsors three conduit programmes, Argento, cancara and Grampian.
Covered bond programmes certain loans and advances to customers have been assigned to bankruptcy remote limited liability partnerships to provide security for issues of covered bonds by the Group.
The Group retains all of the risks and rewards associated with these loans and the partnerships are consolidated fully with the loans retained on the Groups balance sheet and the related covered bonds in issue included within debt securities in issue.
The Groups principal securitisation and covered bond programmes, together with the balances of the advances subject to these arrangements and the carrying value of the notes in issue at 31 december, are listed below.
The notes in issue are reported in note 36.
2012 2011 Loans and loans and advances notes advances notes securitised in issue securitised in issue m m m m 1 Securitisation programmes uK residential mortgages 80,125 57,285 129,764 94,080 us residential mortgage-backed securities 185 221 398 398 commercial loans 15,024 14,110 13,313 11,342 irish residential mortgages 5,189 3,509 5,497 5,661 credit card receivables 6,974 3,794 6,763 4,810 dutch residential mortgages 4,547 4,682 4,933 4,777 Personal loans 4,412 2,000 PFi PPP and project finance loans 688 104 767 110 Motor vehicle loans 1,039 1,086 3,124 2,871 118,183 86,791 164,559 124,049 less held by the Group 58,732 86,637 Total securitisation programmes note 36 28,059 37,412 Covered bond programmes Residential mortgage-backed 91,420 64,593 91,023 67,456 social housing loan-backed 2,927 2,400 3,363 2,605 94,347 66,993 94,386 70,061 less held by the Group 26,320 31,865 Total covered bond programmes note 36 40,673 38,196 Total securitisation and covered bond programmes 68,732 75,608 1 includes securitisations utilising a combination of external funding and credit default swaps.
cash deposits of 19,691 million 2011: 20,435 million held by the Group are restricted in use to repayment of the debt securities issued by the sPEs, the term advances relating to covered bonds and other legal obligations.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 252 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 22: Special purpose entities in addition to the special purpose entities discussed in note 21, which are used for securitisation and covered bond programmes, the Group sponsors three asset-backed conduits, Argento, cancara and Grampian, which invest in debt securities and client receivables.
All the external assets in these conduits are consolidated in the Groups financial statements and are included in the credit market exposures set out in note 55.
The total consolidated exposures in these conduits are set out in the table below: Argento Cancara Grampian Total m m m m At 31 December 2012 loans and advances 140 4,342 58 4,540 debt securities classified as loans and receivables: Asset-backed securities 603 367 358 1,328 debt securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets: Asset-backed securities 396 143 539 Total assets 1,139 4,709 559 6,407 At 31 december 2011 loans and advances 130 3,962 73 4,165 debt securities classified as loans and receivables: Asset-backed securities 1,022 2,004 3,026 debt securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets: Asset-backed securities 733 21 796 1,550 corporate and other debt securities 73 73 806 21 796 1,623 Total assets 1,958 3,983 2,873 8,814 Other special purpose entities during 2009, the Group established lloyds TsB Pension ABcs no 1 llP and lloyds TsB Pension ABcs no 2 llP and transferred approximately 5 billion of assets, primarily comprising notes in certain of the Groups securitisation programmes, in aggregate to these entities.
Further details are provided in note 42. note 23: Debt securities classified as loans and receivables debt securities accounted for as loans and receivables comprise: 2012 2011 m m Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 3,927 7,179 Other asset-backed securities 1,150 5,030 corporate and other debt securities 402 537 Total debt securities classified as loans and receivables before allowance for impairment losses 5,479 12,746 Allowance for impairment losses note 24 206 276 Total debt securities classified as loans and receivables 5,273 12,470 For amounts included above which are subject to repurchase agreements see note 55.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 254 255 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 24: Allowance for impairment losses on loans and receivables Loans and Loans and advances advances Debt to customers to banks securities Total m m m m At 1 January 2011 18,373 20 558 18,951 Exchange and other adjustments 369 2 367 Advances written off 7,487 6 341 7,834 Recoveries of advances written off in previous years 421 8 429 unwinding of discount 226 226 charge to the income statement note 12 8,020 49 8,069 At 31 december 2011 18,732 14 276 19,022 Exchange and other adjustments 379 1 8 388 Advances written off 8,697 10 73 8,780 Recoveries of advances written off in previous years 843 15 858 unwinding of discount 374 374 charge release to the income statement note 12 5,125 4 5,121 At 31 December 2012 15,250 3 206 15,459 Of the total allowance in respect of loans and advances to customers, 13,936 million 2011: 17,021 million related to lending that had been determined to be impaired either individually or on a collective basis at the reporting date.
Of the total allowance in respect of loans and advances to customers, 3,309 million 2011: 3,832 million was assessed on a collective basis.
note 25: Available-for-sale financial assets 2012 2011 Conduits Other Total conduits Other Total m m m m m m debt securities: Government securities 25,555 25,555 25,236 25,236 Other public sector securities 27 27 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 188 188 366 366 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 277 1,247 1,524 1,255 548 1,803 Other asset-backed securities 262 498 760 295 769 1,064 corporate and other debt securities 1,848 1,848 73 5,172 5,245 539 29,336 29,875 1,623 32,118 33,741 Equity shares 528 528 1,938 1,938 Treasury and other bills 971 971 1,727 1,727 Total available-for-sale financial assets 539 30,835 31,374 1,623 35,783 37,406 details of the Groups asset-backed conduits shown in the table above are included in note 22. included within asset-backed securities are 2,284 million 31 december 2011: 2,867 million managed by the commercial Banking division and at the Groups centre.
Further information on these exposures is provided in note 55.
All assets have been individually assessed for impairment.
The criteria used to determine whether an impairment loss has been incurred are disclosed in note 2 H. Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 254 255 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 26: Held-to-maturity investments 2012 2011 m m debt securities: government securities 8,098 during 2012 the Group has reviewed its holding of government securities classified as held-to-maturity.
since it is no longer the Groups intention to hold these to maturity, they have been reclassified as available-for-sale note 25. details of the impact of this reclassification are provided in note 54. note 27: investment properties 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 6,122 5,997 Exchange and other adjustments 22 16 Additions: Acquisitions of new properties 428 396 consolidation of new subsidiary undertakings 411 922 Additional expenditure on existing properties 89 81 Total additions 928 1,399 disposals 1,403 1,151 changes in fair value note 7 264 107 At 31 December 5,405 6,122 The investment properties are valued at least annually at open-market value, by independent, professionally qualified valuers, who have recent experience in the location and categories of the investment properties being valued.
in addition, the following amounts have been recognised in the income statement: 2012 2011 m m Rental income note 9 389 388 direct operating expenses arising from investment properties that generate rental income 42 50 capital expenditure in respect of investment properties: 2012 2011 m m capital expenditure contracted for at the balance sheet date but not recognised in the financial statements 24 33 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 256 257 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 28: Goodwill 2012 2011 m m At 1 January and 31 December 2,016 2,016 1 cost 2,362 2,362 Accumulated impairment losses 346 346 At 31 December 2,016 2,016 1 For acquisitions made prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to iFRs, cost is included net of amounts amortised up to 31 december 2003.
The goodwill held in the Groups balance sheet is tested at least annually for impairment.
For the purposes of impairment testing the goodwill is allocated to the appropriate cash generating unit: of the total balance of 2,016 million 2011: 2,016 million, 1,836 million, or 91 per cent of the total 2011: 1,836 million, 91 per cent of the total has been allocated to scottish Widows in the Groups insurance division and 170 million, or 8 per cent of the total 2011: 170 million, 8 per cent of the total to Asset Finance in the Groups Wealth, Asset Finance and international division.
The recoverable amount of scottish Widows has been based on a value-in-use calculation.
The calculation uses post-tax projections of future cash flows based upon budgets and plans approved by management covering a five-year period, and a discount rate of 12 per cent net of tax.
The budgets and plans are based upon past experience adjusted to take into account anticipated changes in sales volumes, product mix and margins having regard to expected market conditions and competitor activity.
The discount rate is determined with reference to internal measures and available industry information.
cash flows beyond the five-year period have been extrapolated using a steady 3 per cent growth rate which does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the life assurance market.
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions above would not cause the recoverable amount of scottish Widows to fall below its balance sheet carrying value.
The recoverable amount of Asset Finance has also been based on a value-in-use calculation using pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets and plans approved by management covering a five-year period and a discount rate of 14 per cent gross of tax.
The cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a growth rate of 0.5 per cent which does not exceed the long-term average growth rates for the markets in which Asset Finance participates.
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions above would not cause the recoverable amount of Asset Finance to fall below the balance sheet carrying value.
note 29: value of in-force business The gross value of in-force business asset in the consolidated balance sheet is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Acquired value of in-force non-participating investment contracts 1,312 1,391 Value of in-force insurance and participating investment contracts 5,488 5,247 Total value of in-force business 6,800 6,638 The movement in the acquired value of in-force non-participating investment contracts over the year is as follows: 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 1,391 1,469 Amortisation taken to income statement note 11 79 78 At 31 December 1,312 1,391 The acquired value of in-force non-participating investment contracts includes 303 million 2011: 329 million in relation to OEic business.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 256 257 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 29: value of in-force business continued The movement in the value of in-force insurance and participating investment contracts over the year is as follows: 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 5,247 5,898 Exchange and other adjustments 28 29 Movements in the year: new business 570 552 Existing business: Expected return 471 437 Experience variances 52 117 Assumption changes 90 576 Economic variance 208 278 Movement in the value of in-force business taken to income statement note 9 269 622 At 31 December 5,488 5,247 This breakdown shows the movement in the value of in-force business only, and does not represent the full contribution that each item in the breakdown contributes to profit before tax.
This will also contain changes in the other assets and liabilities, including the effects of changes in assumptions used to value the liabilities, of the relevant businesses.
The presentation of economic variance includes the impact of financial market conditions being different at the end of the reporting period from those included in assumptions used to calculate new and existing business returns.
The principal features of the methodology and process used for determining key assumptions used in the calculation of the value of in-force business are set out below: economic assumptions Each cash flow is valued using the discount rate consistent with that applied to such a cash flow in the capital markets.
in practice, to achieve the same result, where the cash flows are either independent of or move linearly with market movements, a method has been applied known as the certainty equivalent approach whereby it is assumed that all assets earn a risk-free rate and all cash flows are discounted at a risk-free rate.
A market-consistent approach has been adopted for the valuation of financial options and guarantees, using a stochastic option pricing technique calibrated to be consistent with the market price of relevant options at each valuation date.
The risk-free rate used for the value of financial options and guarantees is defined as the spot yield derived from the relevant government bond yield curve.
Further information on options and guarantees can be found on page 199.
The liabilities in respect of the Groups uK annuity business are matched by a portfolio of fixed interest securities, including a large proportion of corporate bonds and, since late 2012, illiquid loan assets.
The value of the in-force business asset for uK annuity business has been calculated after taking into account an estimate of the market premium for illiquidity in respect of corporate bond holdings and relevant illiquid loan assets.
The illiquidity premium is estimated to be 73 basis points at 31 december 2012 2011: 119 basis points.
The effect of including illiquid loan assets in the calculation of the market premium for illiquidity has been to increase the value of in-force business by 44 million at 31 december 2012.
This is included as an assumption change in the table below.
The effect of this change on profit before tax, after also including the impacts of movements in liabilities, is given in note 37.
The risk-free rate assumed in valuing the non-annuity in-force business is the 15 year government bond yield for the appropriate territory.
The risk-free rate assumed in valuing the in-force asset for the uK annuity business is presented as a single risk-free rate to allow a better comparison to the rate used for other business.
That single risk-free rate has been derived to give the equivalent value to the uK annuity book, had that book been valued using the uK gilt yield curve increased to reflect the illiquidity premium described above.
The table below shows the resulting range of yields and other key assumptions at 31 december for uK business: 2012 2011 % % Risk-free rate value of in-force non-annuity business 2.32 2.48 Risk-free rate value of in-force annuity business 3.25 3.76 Risk-free rate financial options and guarantees 0.22 to 3.56 0.22 to 3.36 Retail price inflation 3.13 3.35 Expense inflation 3.61 4.01 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 258 259 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 29: value of in-force business continued non-market risk s An allowance for non-market risk is made through the choice of best estimate assumptions based upon experience, which generally will give the mean expected financial outcome for shareholders and hence no further allowance for non-market risk is required.
However, in the case of operational risk, reinsurer default and the with-profit funds these can be asymmetric in the range of potential outcomes for which an explicit allowance is made.
non-economic assumptions Future mortality, morbidity, expenses, lapse and paid-up rate assumptions are reviewed each year and are based on an analysis of past experience and on managements view of future experience.
Mortality and morbidity The mortality and morbidity assumptions, including allowances for improvements in longevity, are set with regard to the Groups actual experience where this provides a reliable basis and relevant industry data otherwise.
For German business, appropriate industry tables have been considered.
Lapse persistency and paid-up rates lapse and paid up rates assumptions are reviewed each year.
The most recent experience is considered along with the results of previous analyses and managements views on future experience.
in determining this best estimate view, a number of factors are considered, including the credibility of the results which will be affected by the volume of data available, any exceptional events that have occurred during the period under consideration and any known or expected trends in underlying data.
Maintenance expenses Allowance is made for future policy costs explicitly.
Expenses are determined by reference to an internal analysis of current and expected future costs.
Explicit allowance is made for future expense inflation.
For German business appropriate cost assumptions have been set in accordance with the rules of the local regulatory body.
These assumptions are intended to represent a best estimate of future experience, and further information about the effect of changes in key assumptions is given in note 38.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 258 259 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 30: Other intangible assets Purchased CustomerCapitalised Core deposit credit card related software Brands intangible relationships intangibles enhancements Total m m m m m m cost: At 1 January 2011 596 2,770 300 877 610 5,153 Exchange and other adjustments 5 5 Additions 4 369 373 disposals 25 25 At 31 december 2011 596 2,770 300 881 959 5,506 Exchange and other adjustments 27 27 Additions 236 236 disposals 89 89 At 31 December 2012 596 2,770 300 881 1,133 5,680 Accumulated amortisation: At 1 January 2011 46 793 118 398 302 1,657 Exchange and other adjustments 2 2 charge for the year 19 399 60 88 97 663 disposals 12 12 At 31 december 2011 65 1,192 178 486 389 2,310 Exchange and other adjustments 25 25 charge for the year 21 368 60 40 127 616 disposals 63 63 At 31 December 2012 86 1,560 238 526 478 2,888 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2012 510 1,210 62 355 655 2,792 Balance sheet amount at 31 december 2011 531 1,578 122 395 570 3,196 included within brands above are assets of 380 million 31 december 2011: 380 million that have been determined to have indefinite useful lives and are not amortised.
These brands use the Bank of scotland name which has been in existence for over 300 years.
These brands are well established financial services brands and there are no indications that they should not have an indefinite useful life.
The core deposit intangible is the benefit derived from a large stable deposit base that has low interest rates, and the balance sheet amount at 31 december 2012 shown above will be amortised, in accordance with the Groups accounting policy, on a straight line basis over its remaining useful life of four years see note 2 c. The purchased credit card relationships represent the benefit of recurring income generated from the portfolio of credit cards purchased.
The customer-related intangibles include customer lists and the benefits of customer relationships that generate recurring income.
capitalised software enhancements principally comprise identifiable and directly associated internal staff and other costs.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 260 261 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 31: Tangible fixed assets Operating Total tangible Premises equipment lease assets fixed assets m m m m cost: At 1 January 2011 2,440 4,579 6,287 13,306 Exchange and other adjustments 45 22 67 Additions 149 660 1,436 2,245 disposals 121 395 1,852 2,368 disposal of businesses 14 7 330 351 At 31 december 2011 2,454 4,792 5,519 12,765 Exchange and other adjustments 2 82 11 91 Additions 225 711 1,314 2,250 disposals 65 306 1,924 2,295 Write-offs 1,562 1,562 At 31 December 2012 2,616 3,553 4,898 11,067 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: At 1 January 2011 1,001 2,845 1,270 5,116 Exchange and other adjustments 17 18 35 impairment charged to the income statement 65 65 depreciation charge for the year 137 411 886 1,434 disposals 38 349 967 1,354 disposal of businesses 3 6 195 204 At 31 december 2011 1,097 2,983 1,012 5,092 Exchange and other adjustments 8 77 52 33 depreciation charge for the year 130 432 869 1,431 disposals 28 266 909 1,203 Write-offs 1,562 1,562 At 31 December 2012 1,191 1,510 1,024 3,725 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2012 1,425 2,043 3,874 7,342 Balance sheet amount at 31 december 2011 1,357 1,809 4,507 7,673 At 31 december the future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 2012 2011 m m Receivable within 1 year 1,039 987 1 to 5 years 1,291 1,389 Over 5 years 435 628 Total future minimum rentals receivable 2,765 3,004 Equipment leased to customers under operating leases primarily relates to vehicle contract hire arrangements.
during 2012 and 2011 no contingent rentals in respect of operating leases were recognised in the income statement.
in addition, total future minimum sub-lease income of 30 million at 31 december 2012 40 million at 31 december 2011 is expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases of the Groups premises.
The impairment charge in 2011 related to integration activities.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 260 261 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 32: Other assets 2012 2011 m m Assets arising from reinsurance contracts held note 37 and note 39 2,320 2,534 deferred acquisition and origination costs see below 774 693 settlement balances 1,332 1,193 corporate pension asset 6,353 3,873 investments in joint ventures and associates note 13 313 334 Other assets and prepayments 7,216 6,135 Total other assets 18,308 14,762 deferred acquisition and origination costs: 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 693 602 costs deferred, net of amounts amortised to the income statement 80 92 Exchange and other adjustments 1 1 At 31 December 774 693 note 33: Deposits from banks 2012 2011 m m liabilities in respect of securities sold under repurchase agreements 23,368 14,389 Other deposits from banks 15,037 25,421 Deposits from banks 38,405 39,810 included in the amounts reported above are deposits held as collateral for facilities granted, with a carrying value of 23,078 million 2011: 13,933 million and a fair value of 25,682 million 2011: 14,258 million.
included in the amounts reported above are collateral balances in the form of cash provided in respect of repurchase agreements amounting to 4 million 2011: nil.
note 34: Customer deposits 2012 2011 m m non-interest bearing current accounts 30,633 29,468 interest bearing current accounts 71,478 72,562 savings and investment accounts 261,573 238,132 liabilities in respect of securities sold under repurchase agreements 4,433 7,996 Other customer deposits 58,795 65,748 Customer deposits 426,912 413,906 included in the amounts reported above are deposits held as collateral for facilities granted, with a carrying value of 4,429 million 2011: 7,987 million and a fair value of 4,552 million 2011: 8,088 million.
included in the amounts reported above are collateral balances in the form of cash provided in respect of repurchase agreements amounting to 192 million 2011: 323 million.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 262 263 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 35: Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 2012 2011 m m liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss debt securities 5,700 5,339 Trading liabilities: liabilities in respect of securities sold under repurchase agreements 24,553 12,378 short positions in securities 2,200 3,701 Other 3,519 3,537 30,272 19,616 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 35,972 24,955 The amount contractually payable on maturity of the debt securities held at fair value through profit or loss at 31 december 2012 was 6,553 million, which was 853 million higher than the balance sheet carrying value 2011: 5,487 million, which was 148 million higher than the balance sheet carrying value.
At 31 december 2012 there was a cumulative 254 million increase in the fair value of these liabilities attributable to changes in credit spread risk: this is determined by reference to the quoted credit spreads of lloyds TsB Bank plc, the issuing entity within the Group.
Of the cumulative amount an increase of 437 million arose in 2012 and a decrease of 194 million arose in 2011. liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss represent debt securities in issue which either contain substantive embedded derivatives which would otherwise need to be recognised and measured at fair value separately from the related debt securities, or which are accounted for at fair value to significantly reduce an accounting mismatch.
note 36: Debt securities in issue 2012 2011 m m Medium-term notes issued 29,537 63,366 covered bonds note 21 40,673 38,196 certificates of deposit issued 11,087 27,994 securitisation notes note 21 28,059 37,412 commercial paper 8,013 18,091 Total debt securities in issue 117,369 185,059 note 37: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts insurance contract and participating investment contract liabilities are comprised as follows: 2012 2011 1 1 Gross Reinsurance net Gross Reinsurance net m m m m m m life insurance see 1 below : insurance contracts 65,650 2,257 63,393 62,399 2,452 59,947 Participating investment contracts 16,489 16,489 15,631 15,631 82,139 2,257 79,882 78,030 2,452 75,578 non-life insurance contracts see 2 below : unearned premiums 494 16 478 566 23 543 claims outstanding 320 1 319 395 2 393 814 17 797 961 25 936 Total 82,953 2,274 80,679 78,991 2,477 76,514 1 Reinsurance balances are reported within other assets note 32.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 262 263 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 37: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts continued 1 Life insurance The movement in life insurance contract and participating investment contract liabilities over the year can be analysed as follows: Participating insurance investment contracts contracts Gross Reinsurance net m m m m m At 1 January 2011 61,871 17,642 79,513 2,044 77,469 new business 4,340 86 4,426 156 4,270 changes in existing business 3,713 2,096 5,809 295 6,104 change in liabilities charged to the income statement note 10 627 2,010 1,383 451 1,834 Exchange and other adjustments 99 1 100 43 57 At 31 december 2011 62,399 15,631 78,030 2,452 75,578 new business 2,757 65 2,822 67 2,755 changes in existing business 668 794 1,462 253 1,715 change in liabilities charged to the income statement note 10 3,425 859 4,284 186 4,470 Exchange and other adjustments 174 1 175 9 166 At 31 December 2012 65,650 16,489 82,139 2,257 79,882 liabilities for insurance contracts and participating investment contracts can be split into with-profit fund liabilities, accounted for using the FsAs realistic capital regime realistic liabilities and non-profit fund liabilities, accounted for using a prospective actuarial discounted cash flow methodology, as follows: 2012 2011 With-profit non-profit With-profit non-profit fund fund Total fund fund Total m m m m m m insurance contracts 12,383 53,267 65,650 13,467 48,932 62,399 Participating investment contracts 9,646 6,843 16,489 9,488 6,143 15,631 Total 22,029 60,110 82,139 22,955 55,075 78,030 With-profit fund realistic liabilities i Business description The Group has with-profit funds within scottish Widows plc and clerical Medical investment Group limited containing both insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
The primary purpose of the conventional and unitised business written in the with-profit funds is to provide a smoothed investment vehicle to policyholders, protecting them against short-term market fluctuations.
Payouts may be subject to a guaranteed minimum payout if certain policy conditions are met.
With-profit policyholders are entitled to at least 90 per cent of the distributed profits, with the shareholders receiving the balance.
The policyholders are also usually insured against death and the policy may carry a guaranteed annuity option at retirement.
ii Method of calculation of liabilities With-profit liabilities are stated at their realistic value, the main components of which are: With-profit benefit reserve, the total asset shares for with-profit policies: cost of options and guarantees including guaranteed annuity options : deductions levied against asset shares: Planned enhancements to with-profits benefits reserve: and impact of the smoothing policy.
The realistic assessment is carried out using a stochastic simulation model which values liabilities on a market-consistent basis.
The calculation of realistic liabilities uses best estimate assumptions for mortality, persistency rates and expenses.
These are calculated in a similar manner to those used for the value of in-force business as discussed in note 29.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 264 265 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 37: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts continued iii Assumptions Key assumptions used in the calculation of with-profit liabilities, and the processes for determining these, are: Investment returns and discount rates The realistic capital regime dictates that with-profit fund liabilities are valued on a market-consistent basis.
This is achieved by the use of a valuation model which values liabilities on a basis calibrated to tradable market option contracts and other observable market data.
The with-profit fund financial options and guarantees are valued using a stochastic simulation model where all assets are assumed to earn, on average, the risk-free yield and all cash flows are discounted using the risk-free yield.
The risk-free yield is defined as the spot yield derived from the relevant government bond yield curve.
Further information on significant options and guarantees is given on page 199.
Guaranteed annuity option take-up rates certain pension contracts contain guaranteed annuity options that allow the policyholder to take an annuity benefit on retirement at annuity rates that were guaranteed at the outset of the contract.
For contracts that contain such options, key assumptions in determining the cost of options are economic conditions in which the option has value, mortality rates and take up rates of other options.
The financial impact is dependent on the value of corresponding investments, interest rates and longevity at the time of the claim.
Investment volatility The calibration of the stochastic simulation model uses implied volatilities of derivatives where possible, or historical volatility where it is not possible to observe meaningful prices.
Mortality The mortality assumptions, including allowances for improvements in longevity for annuitants, are set with regard to the Groups actual experience where this is significant, and relevant industry data otherwise.
Lapse rates persistency lapse rates refer to the rate of policy termination or the rate at which policyholders stop paying regular premiums due under the contract.
Historical persistency experience is analysed using statistical techniques.
As experience can vary considerably between different product types and for contracts that have been in force for different periods, the data is broken down into broadly homogenous groups for the purposes of this analysis.
The most recent experience is considered along with the results of previous analyses and managements views on future experience, taking into consideration potential changes in future experience that may result from guarantees and options becoming more valuable under adverse market conditions, in order to determine a best estimate view of what persistency will be.
in determining this best estimate view a number of factors are considered, including the credibility of the results which will be affected by the volume of data available, any exceptional events that have occurred during the period under consideration, any known or expected trends in underlying data and relevant published market data.
non-profit fund liabilities i Business description The Group principally writes the following types of life insurance contracts within its non-profit funds.
shareholder profits on these types of business arise from management fees and other policy charges.
Unit-linked business This includes unit-linked pensions and unit-linked bonds, the primary purpose of which is to provide an investment vehicle where the policyholder is also insured against death.
Life insurance The policyholder is insured against death or permanent disability, usually for predetermined amounts.
such business includes whole of life and term assurance and long-term creditor policies.
Annuities The policyholder is entitled to payments for the duration of their life and is therefore insured against surviving longer than expected.
German insurance business is written through the Groups subsidiary Heidelberger leben and comprises policies similar to the uK definitions above, except that there is participation by the policyholder in the investment, insurance and expense profits of Heidelberger leben.
A minimum level of policyholder participation is prescribed by German law.
The following types of life insurance contracts are written: Traditional and unit linked endowment or pensions business: and life insurance business.
ii Method of calculation of liabilities The non-profit fund liabilities are determined on the basis of recognised actuarial methods and consistent with the approach required by regulatory rules.
The methods used involve estimating future policy cash flows over the duration of the in-force book of policies, and discounting the cash flows back to the valuation date allowing for probabilities of occurrence.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 264 265 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 37: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts continued iii Assumptions Generally, assumptions used to value non-profit fund liabilities are prudent in nature and therefore contain a margin for adverse deviation.
This margin for adverse deviation is based on managements judgement and reflects managements views on the inherent level of uncertainty.
The key assumptions used in the measurement of non-profit fund liabilities are: Interest rates The rates used are derived in accordance with the guidelines set by local regulatory bodies.
These limit the rates of interest that can be used by reference to a number of factors including the redemption yields on fixed interest assets at the valuation date.
Margins for risk are allowed for in the assumed interest rates.
These are derived from the limits in the guidelines set by local regulatory bodies, including reductions made to the available yields to allow for default risk based upon the credit rating of the securities allocated to the insurance liability.
Mortality and morbidity The mortality and morbidity assumptions, including allowances for improvements in longevity for annuitants, are set with regard to the Groups actual experience where this provides a reliable basis, and relevant industry data otherwise, and include a margin for adverse deviation.
For German business appropriate industry tables have been considered.
Lapse rates persistency lapse rates are allowed for on some non-profit fund contracts.
The process for setting these rates is as described for with-profit liabilities, however a prudent scenario is assumed by the inclusion of a margin for adverse deviation within the non-profit fund liabilities.
Expenses are determined by reference to an internal analysis of current and expected future costs plus a margin for adverse deviation.
Key changes in assumptions A detailed review of the Groups assumptions in 2012 resulted in the following key impacts on profit before tax: change in persistency assumptions 124 million decrease.
change in the assumption in respect of current and future mortality rates 4 million increase.
change in expenses assumptions 81 million increase.
inclusion of illiquid loan assets in the valuation of the annuity portfolio 44 million increase.
Reduction of assumed future bonus rate and move to yield curve valuation of annuities 19 million increase.
Addition of an allowance for the time value cost of interest rate options on traditional with-profits business 10 million decrease.
These amounts include the impacts of movements in liabilities and value of the in-force business in respect of insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 266 267 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 37: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts continued 2 non-life insurance Gross non-life insurance contract liabilities are analysed by line of business as follows: 2012 2011 m m credit protection 94 206 Home 718 753 Health 2 2 Total gross non-life insurance contract liabilities 814 961 For non-life insurance contracts, the methodology and assumptions used in relation to determining the bases of the earned premium and claims provisioning levels are derived for each individual underwritten product.
Assumptions are intended to be neutral estimates of the most likely or expected outcome.
There has been no significant change in the assumptions and methodologies used for setting reserves.
The reserving methodology and associated assumptions are set out below: The unearned premium reserve is determined on a basis that reflects the length of time for which contracts have been in force and the projected incidence of risk over the term of each contract.
claims outstanding comprise those claims that have been notified and those that have been incurred but not reported.
claims incurred but not reported are determined based on the historical emergence of claims and their average cost.
The notified claims element represents the best estimate of the cost of claims reported using projections and estimates based on historical experience.
The movements in non-life insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets over the year have been as follows: Gross Reinsurance net m m m Provisions for unearned premiums At 1 January 2011 632 22 610 increase in the year 1,082 52 1,030 Release in the year 1,152 52 1,100 change in provision for unearned premiums charged to income statement note 8 70 70 Exchange and other adjustments 4 1 3 At 31 december 2011 566 23 543 increase in the year 1,081 31 1,050 Release in the year 1,153 38 1,115 change in provision for unearned premiums charged to income statement note 8 72 7 65 At 31 December 2012 494 16 478 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 266 267 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 37: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts continued These provisions represent the liability for short-term insurance contracts for which the Groups obligations are not expired at the year end.
Gross Reinsurance net m m m Claims outstanding notified claims 420 4 416 incurred but not reported 164 11 153 At 1 January 2011 584 15 569 cash paid for claims settled in the year 485 485 increase decrease in liabilities: Arising from current year claims 470 470 Arising from prior year claims 171 12 159 change in liabilities charged to income statement note 10 186 12 174 Exchange and over adjustments 3 1 2 At 31 december 2011 395 2 393 cash paid for claims settled in the year 455 1 454 increase decrease in liabilities: Arising from current year claims 492 492 Arising from prior year claims 111 111 change in liabilities charged to income statement note 10 74 1 73 Exchange and other adjustments 1 1 At 31 December 2012 320 1 319 notified claims 280 280 incurred but not reported 40 1 39 At 31 December 2012 320 1 319 notified claims 313 1 312 incurred but not reported 82 1 81 At 31 december 2011 395 2 393 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 268 269 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 37: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts continued non-life insurance claims development table The development of insurance liabilities provides a measure of the Groups ability to estimate the ultimate value of claims.
The top half of the table below illustrates how the Groups estimate of total claims outstanding for each accident year shown has changed at successive year ends.
The bottom half of the table reconciles the cumulative claims to the amount appearing in the balance sheet.
The accident year basis is considered the most appropriate for the business written by the Group.
non-life insurance all risks gross 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total m m m m m m m m m Accident year Estimate of ultimate claims costs: At end of accident year 211 208 317 205 639 609 446 421 3,056 One year later 207 206 311 199 539 517 366 Two years later 204 204 299 195 494 497 Three years later 202 204 292 187 487 Four years later 201 205 285 186 Five years later 201 203 286 six years later 201 202 seven years later 200 current estimate in respect of above claims 200 202 286 186 487 497 366 421 2,645 current estimate of claims relating to general insurance business acquired in 2009 272 315 388 256 1,231 current estimate of cumulative claims 472 517 674 442 487 497 366 421 3,876 cumulative payments to date 471 515 671 437 476 469 315 227 3,581 Liability recognised in the balance sheet 1 2 3 5 11 28 51 194 295 liability in respect of earlier years 1 Total liability included in the balance sheet 296 The liability of 296 million shown in the above table excludes 13 million of unallocated claims handling expenses and 11 million of unexpired risk reserve.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 268 269 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 38: Life insurance sensitivity analysis The following table demonstrates the effect of reasonably possible changes in key assumptions on profit before tax and equity disclosed in these financial statements assuming that the other assumptions remain unchanged.
in practice this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some assumptions may be correlated.
These amounts include movements in assets, liabilities and the value of the in-force business in respect of insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
The impact is shown in one direction but can be assumed to be reasonably symmetrical.
increase increase reduction in reduction in Change in profit before tax equity variable m m At 31 December 2012 1 non-annuitant mortality 5% reduction 43 33 2 Annuitant mortality 5% reduction 170 131 3 lapse rates 10% reduction 117 90 4 Future maintenance and investment expenses 10% reduction 199 153 5 Risk-free rate 0.25% reduction 26 20 6 Guaranteed annuity option take up 5% addition 9 7 7 Equity investment volatility 1% addition 7 5 8 Widening of credit default spreads on corporate bonds 0.25% addition 239 184 9 increase in illiquidity premia 0.10% addition 93 72 increase increase reduction in reduction in change in profit before tax equity variable m m At 31 december 2011 1 non-annuitant mortality 5% reduction 48 36 2 Annuitant mortality 5% reduction 154 115 3 lapse rates 10% reduction 123 92 4 Future maintenance and investment expenses 10% reduction 207 156 5 Risk-free rate 0.25% reduction 55 41 6 Guaranteed annuity option take up 5% addition 4 3 7 Equity investment volatility 1% addition 9 7 8 Widening of credit default spreads on corporate bonds 0.25% addition 164 123 9 increase in illiquidity premia 0.10% addition 87 66 Assumptions have been flexed on the basis used to calculate the value of in-force business and the realistic and statutory reserving bases.
1 This sensitivity shows the impact of reducing mortality and morbidity rates on non-annuity business to 95 per cent of the expected rate.
2 This sensitivity shows the impact on the annuity and deferred annuity business of reducing mortality rates to 95 per cent of the expected rate.
3 This sensitivity shows the impact of reducing lapse and surrender rates to 90 per cent of the expected rate.
4 This sensitivity shows the impact of reducing maintenance expenses and investment expenses to 90 per cent of the expected rate.
5 This sensitivity shows the impact on the value of in-force business, financial options and guarantee costs, statutory reserves and asset values of reducing the risk-free rate by 25 basis points.
6 This sensitivity shows the impact of a flat 5 per cent addition to the expected rate.
7 This sensitivity shows the impact of a flat 1 per cent addition to the expected rate.
8 This sensitivity shows the impact of a 25 basis point increase in credit default spreads on corporate bonds and the corresponding reduction in market values.
Government bond yields, the risk-free rate and illiquidity premia are all assumed to be unchanged.
9 This sensitivity shows the impact of a 10 basis point increase in the allowance for illiquidity premia.
it assumes the overall spreads on assets are unchanged and hence market values are unchanged.
Government bond yields and the non-annuity risk-free rate are both assumed to be unchanged.
The increased illiquidity premium increases the annuity risk-free rate.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 270 271 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 39: Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts The movement in liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts may be analysed as follows: Gross Reinsurance net m m m At 1 January 2011 51,363 65 51,298 new business 4,194 3 4,191 changes in existing business 5,922 11 5,911 Exchange and other adjustments 1 1 At 31 december 2011 49,636 57 49,579 new business 4,236 1 4,235 changes in existing business 526 12 538 Exchange and other adjustments 26 26 At 31 December 2012 54,372 46 54,326 note 40: Unallocated surplus within insurance businesses The movement in the unallocated surplus within long-term insurance businesses over the year can be analysed as follows: 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 300 643 change in unallocated surplus recognised in the income statement note 10 31 340 Exchange and other adjustments 2 3 At 31 December 267 300 note 41: Other liabilities 2012 2011 m m settlement balances 2,006 1,937 unitholders interest in Open Ended investment companies 20,935 18,249 Other creditors and accruals 11,000 11,855 Total other liabilities 33,941 32,041 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 270 271 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 42: Retirement benefit obligations 2012 2011 2010 m m m Charge credit to the income statement 1 Past service credits and curtailment gains 250 910 Other 307 186 443 defined benefit pension schemes 57 186 467 Other post-retirement benefit schemes 11 13 12 Total defined benefit schemes 68 199 455 defined contribution pension schemes 229 202 173 Total charge credit to the income statement 297 401 282 1 in 2012, there was a net credit of 250 million following a decision to link discretionary pension increases in certain schemes to the consumer Price index: and in 2010, there was a credit of 910 million following the Groups decision to cap all future increases to pensionable salary in its principal uK defined benefit pension schemes, together with a change in commutation factors in certain schemes note 11.
2012 2011 m m Amounts recognised in the balance sheet Retirement benefit assets 1,867 1,338 Retirement benefit obligations 300 381 Total amounts recognised in the balance sheet 1,567 957 The total amount recognised in the balance sheet relates to: 2012 2011 m m defined benefit pension schemes 1,748 1,131 Other post-retirement benefit schemes 181 174 Total amounts recognised in the balance sheet 1,567 957 Pension schemes Defined benefit schemes The Group has established a number of defined benefit pension schemes in the uK and overseas, the three most significant being the defined benefit sections of the lloyds TsB Group Pension schemes nos 1 and 2 and the HBOs Final salary Pension scheme.
These schemes provide retirement benefits calculated as a percentage of final pensionable salary depending upon the length of service: the minimum retirement age under the rules of the schemes at 31 december 2012 was generally 55 although certain categories of member are deemed to have a contractual right to retire at 50.
The latest full valuations of the three main schemes were carried out as at 30 June 2011: the results have been updated to 31 december 2012 by qualified independent actuaries.
The last full valuations of other Group schemes were carried out on a number of different dates: these have been updated to 31 december 2012 by qualified independent actuaries or, in the case of the scottish Widows Retirement Benefits scheme, by a qualified actuary employed by scottish Widows.
The Groups obligations in respect of its defined benefit schemes are funded.
during 2009, the Group made one-off contributions to the lloyds TsB Group Pension scheme no 1 and lloyds TsB Group Pension scheme no 2 of approximately 1 billion in aggregate.
These contributions took the form of interests in limited liability partnerships for each of the two schemes which contained assets of approximately 5 billion in aggregate entitling the schemes to annual payments of approximately 215 million in aggregate until 31 december 2014.
Thereafter, assuming that all distributions have been made, the value of the partnership interests will equate to a nominal amount.
At 31 december 2012, the limited liability partnerships held assets of approximately 4.7 billion: cash payments of 215 million were made to the pension schemes during the year 2011: 215 million.
The limited liability partnerships are fully consolidated in the Groups balance sheet see note 22.
The Group currently expects to pay contributions of approximately 1,025 million to its defined benefit schemes in 2013.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 272 273 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 42: Retirement benefit obligations continued 2012 2011 m m Amount included in the balance sheet Present value of funded obligations 31,324 28,236 Fair value of scheme assets 30,367 28,828 957 592 unrecognised actuarial losses 2,705 539 net amount recognised in the balance sheet 1,748 1,131 2012 2011 m m Movements in the defined benefit obligation At 1 January 28,236 26,862 current service cost 360 380 Employee contributions 3 1 interest cost 1,373 1,423 Actuarial losses 2,607 514 Benefits paid 995 912 Past service cost 16 20 curtailments 250 25 settlements 12 15 Exchange and other adjustments 14 12 At 31 December 31,324 28,236 2012 2011 m m Changes in the fair value of scheme assets At 1 January 28,828 26,382 Expected return 1,446 1,627 Employer contributions 667 833 Employee contributions 3 1 Actuarial gains 442 926 Benefits paid 993 912 settlements 16 23 Exchange and other adjustments 10 6 At 31 December 30,367 28,828 Actual return on scheme assets 1,888 2,553 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 272 273 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 42: Retirement benefit obligations continued Assumptions The principal actuarial and financial assumptions used in valuations of the defined benefit pension schemes were as follows: 2012 2011 % % discount rate 4.60 5.00 Rate of inflation: Retail Prices index 2.90 3.00 consumer Price index 2.00 2.00 Rate of salary increases 2.00 2.00 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.70 2.80 2012 2011 years Years life expectancy for member aged 60, on the valuation date: Men 27.4 27.3 Women 29.7 28.4 life expectancy for member aged 60, 15 years after the valuation date: Men 28.5 28.8 Women 30.9 30.0 The mortality assumptions used in the scheme valuations are based on standard tables published by the institute and Faculty of Actuaries which were adjusted in line with the actual experience of the relevant schemes.
The table shows that a member retiring at age 60 at 31 december 2012 is assumed to live for, on average, 27.4 years for a male and 29.7 years for a female.
in practice there will be much variation between individual members but these assumptions are expected to be appropriate across all members.
it is assumed that younger members will live longer in retirement than those retiring now.
This reflects the expectation that mortality rates will continue to fall over time as medical science and standards of living improve.
To illustrate the degree of improvement assumed the table also shows the life expectancy for members aged 45 now, when they retire in 15 years time at age 60. sensitivity analysis The effect of changes in key assumptions on the pension charge in the Groups income statement and on the net defined benefit pension scheme asset or liability is set out below: increase decrease increase decrease in the in the income net defined benefit pension statement charge scheme asset 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m 1 inflation: increase of 0.2 per cent 50 12 884 798 decrease of 0.2 per cent 45 6 815 783 2 discount rate: increase of 0.2 per cent 54 10 1,056 909 decrease of 0.2 per cent 54 17 1,102 957 Expected life expectancy of members: increase of one year 74 38 697 655 decrease of one year 73 40 686 667 1 At 31 december 2012, the assumed rate of inflation is 2.90 per cent 2011: 3.00 per cent.
2 At 31 december 2012, the assumed discount rate is 4.60 per cent 2011: 5.00 per cent.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group 274 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 42: Retirement benefit obligations continued The expected return on scheme assets has been calculated using the following assumptions: 2012 2011 % % Equities and alternative assets 7.3 8.3 Fixed interest gilts 3.0 4.0 index linked gilts 2.8 3.9 non-government bonds 4.9 4.9 Property 6.6 7.3 Money market instruments and cash 2.6 3.9 The expected return on scheme assets in 2013 will be calculated using the following assumptions: 2013 % Equities and alternative assets 6.8 Fixed interest gilts 2.3 index linked gilts 2.8 non-government bonds 3.1 Property 6.8 Money market instruments and cash 2.4 With effect from 1 January 2013 the Group will adopt amendments to iAs 19 Employee Benefits.
These amendments will change the calculation of the Groups defined benefit schemes income statement expense, replacing expected return on scheme assets and interest cost with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability asset see note 57 on page 342.
The above expected return on scheme assets will be used in determining the effect of this new accounting policy on the Groups 2013 income statement expense.
composition of scheme assets: 2012 2011 m m Equities 12,364 10,728 Fixed interest gilts 771 995 index linked gilts 6,429 6,211 non-government bonds 5,014 4,250 Property 1,528 1,708 Money market instruments, cash and other assets and liabilities 4,261 4,936 At 31 December 30,367 28,828 The assets of all the funded schemes are held independently of the Groups assets in separate trustee administered funds.
The expected return on scheme assets was determined by considering the expected returns available on the assets underlying the current investment policy.
Expected yields on fixed interest investments are based on gross redemption yields at the balance sheet date at a term and credit rating broadly appropriate for the bonds held.
Expected returns on equity and property investments are long-term rates based on the views of the plans independent investment consultants.
The expected return on equities allows for the different expected returns from the private equity, infrastructure and hedge fund investments held by some of the funded schemes.
some of the funded schemes also invest in certain money market instruments and the expected return on these investments has been assumed to be the same as cash.
Experience adjustments history: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 31,324 28,236 26,862 27,073 15,617 16,795 17,378 Fair value of scheme assets 30,367 28,828 26,382 23,518 13,693 16,112 15,279 deficit surplus 957 592 480 3,555 1,924 683 2,099 Experience losses gains on scheme liabilities 501 277 496 31 39 185 50 Experience gains losses on scheme assets 442 926 1,624 886 3,520 139 314 Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 275 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 42: Retirement benefit obligations continued The expense recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 december comprises: 2012 2011 2010 m m m current service cost 360 380 384 interest cost 1,373 1,423 1,474 Expected return on scheme assets 1,446 1,627 1,507 net actuarial losses recognised in year 7 43 Past service credits and curtailments see below 250 25 910 settlements 4 8 3 Past service cost 16 20 46 Total defined benefit pension expense credit 57 186 467 Following a review of policy in respect of discretionary pension increases in relation to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, increases in certain schemes are now linked to the consumer Price index rather than the Retail Price index.
in 2010 the Group made changes to the terms of its principal uK defined benefit pension schemes, all future increases to pensionable salary will be capped each year at the lower of: Retail Prices index inflation: each employees actual percentage increase in pay: and 2 per cent of pensionable pay.
in addition to this, during the second half of 2010 there was a change in the commutation factors in certain defined benefit schemes.
The combined effect of these changes was a reduction in the Groups defined benefit obligation of 1,081 million and a reduction in the Groups unrecognised actuarial losses of 171 million, resulting in a net curtailment gain of 910 million recognised in the income statement in 2010 and an equivalent reduction in the balance sheet liability.
Defined contribution schemes The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes in the uK and overseas, principally Your Tomorrow and the defined contribution sections of the lloyds TsB Group Pension scheme no.
1. during the year ended 31 december 2012 the charge to the income statement in respect of defined contribution schemes was 229 million 2011: 202 million: 2010: 173 million, representing the contributions payable by the employer in accordance with each schemes rules.
Other post-retirement benefit schemes The Group operates a number of schemes which provide post-retirement healthcare benefits and concessionary mortgages to certain employees, retired employees and their dependants.
The principal scheme relates to former lloyds Bank staff and under this scheme the Group has undertaken to meet the cost of post-retirement healthcare for all eligible former employees and their dependants who retired prior to 1 January 1996.
The Group has entered into an insurance contract to provide these benefits and a provision has been made for the estimated cost of future insurance premiums payable.
For the principal post-retirement healthcare scheme, the latest actuarial valuation of the liability was carried out at 30 June 2008: this valuation has been updated to 31 december 2012 by qualified independent actuaries.
The principal assumptions used were as set out above, except that the rate of increase in healthcare premiums has been assumed at 6.50 per cent 2011: 6.61 per cent.
Amount included in the balance sheet: 2012 2011 m m Present value of unfunded obligations 207 188 unrecognised actuarial losses 26 14 Retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet 181 174 Movements in the other post-retirement benefits obligation: 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 188 175 Exchange and other adjustments 16 5 insurance premiums paid 8 5 charge for the year 11 13 At 31 December 207 188 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 276 277 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 43: Deferred tax deferred tax assets and liabilities are comprised as follows: The movement in the net deferred tax balance is as follows: 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m deferred tax assets: Asset at 1 January 4,182 3,917 Accelerated capital allowances 167 Exchange and other adjustments 14 3 Allowances for impairment losses 227 559 disposals 10 Other provisions 109 218 income statement charge credit note 15 : Available-for-sale asset revaluation 286 288 due to change in uK corporation tax rate 308 404 Tax losses carried forward 7,034 5,862 Other 254 1,525 Other temporary differences 903 1,068 562 1,121 Total deferred tax assets 8,726 7,995 Amount credited charged to equity: 2012 2011 Available-for-sale financial assets note 48 344 574 m m cash flow hedges note 48 1 270 deferred tax liabilities: share-based compensation 7 25 Accelerated capital allowances 243 352 869 long-term assurance business 1,849 980 Asset at 31 December 3,958 4,182 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 357 120 Tax on fair value of acquired assets 1,741 1,890 The statutory position reflects the deferred tax assets and liabilities as disclosed in the consolidated balance sheet and takes account of Effective interest rates 34 45 the inability to offset assets and liabilities where there is no legally enforceable right of offset.
The tax disclosure of deferred tax assets and liabilities ties to the amounts outlined in the table below which splits the deferred tax assets and liabilities by type.
derivatives 333 161 Other temporary differences 454 374 2012 2011 2012 2011 Statutory position m m Tax disclosure m m Total deferred tax liabilities 4,768 3,813 deferred tax assets 4,285 4,496 deferred tax assets 8,726 7,995 deferred tax liabilities 327 314 deferred tax liabilities 4,768 3,813 On 21 March 2012, the Government announced that the corporation tax rate applicable from 1 April 2012 would be 24 per cent.
This change passed into legislation on 26 March 2012. in addition, the Finance Act 2012, which was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012, included Asset at 31 December 3,958 4,182 Asset at 31 December 3,958 4,182 legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 24 per cent to 23 per cent with effect from 1 April 2013.
The change in the main rate of corporation tax from 25 per cent to 23 per cent has resulted in a reduction in the Groups net deferred tax asset at 31 december 2012 of The deferred tax charge credit in the income statement comprises the following temporary differences: 286 million, comprising the 308 million charge included in the income statement and a 22 million credit included in equity.
2012 2011 2010 The proposed further reduction in the rate of corporation tax by 2 per cent to 21 per cent by 1 April 2014 is expected to be enacted during m m m 2013.
The effect of this further change upon the Groups deferred tax balances and leasing business cannot be reliably estimated at this stage.
Accelerated capital allowances 410 319 470 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 237 153 391 Deferred tax assets long-term assurance business 869 596 110 deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future Allowances for impairment losses 332 56 73 taxable profits is probable.
Group companies have recognised deferred tax assets of 7,034 million 2011: 5,862 million in relation to trading tax losses carried forward.
After reviews of medium-term profit forecasts, the Group considers that there will be sufficient profits in the future Tax losses carried forward 974 55 873 against which these losses will be offset see note 3.
Tax on fair value of acquired assets 28 107 715 deferred tax assets of 330 million 2011: 384 million have not been recognised in respect of capital losses carried forward as there are no Other temporary differences 536 577 69 predicted future capital profits.
capital losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
Deferred tax charge credit in the income statement 562 1,121 671 deferred tax assets of 939 million 2011: 733 million have not been recognised in respect of trading losses carried forward, mainly in certain overseas companies and in respect of other temporary differences in the insurance businesses.
Trading losses can be carried forward indefinitely, except for losses in spain which expire after 18 years and in the usA which expire after 20 years.
in addition, deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of unrelieved foreign tax carried forward at 31 december 2012 of 42 million 2011: 171 million, as there are no predicted future taxable profits against which the unrelieved foreign tax credits can be utilised.
These tax credits can be carried forward indefinitely.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 276 277 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 43: Deferred tax continued deferred tax assets and liabilities are comprised as follows: 2012 2011 m m deferred tax assets: Accelerated capital allowances 167 Allowances for impairment losses 227 559 Other provisions 109 218 Available-for-sale asset revaluation 286 288 Tax losses carried forward 7,034 5,862 Other temporary differences 903 1,068 Total deferred tax assets 8,726 7,995 2012 2011 m m deferred tax liabilities: Accelerated capital allowances 243 long-term assurance business 1,849 980 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 357 120 Tax on fair value of acquired assets 1,741 1,890 Effective interest rates 34 45 derivatives 333 161 Other temporary differences 454 374 Total deferred tax liabilities 4,768 3,813 On 21 March 2012, the Government announced that the corporation tax rate applicable from 1 April 2012 would be 24 per cent.
This change passed into legislation on 26 March 2012. in addition, the Finance Act 2012, which was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012, included legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 24 per cent to 23 per cent with effect from 1 April 2013.
The change in the main rate of corporation tax from 25 per cent to 23 per cent has resulted in a reduction in the Groups net deferred tax asset at 31 december 2012 of 286 million, comprising the 308 million charge included in the income statement and a 22 million credit included in equity.
The proposed further reduction in the rate of corporation tax by 2 per cent to 21 per cent by 1 April 2014 is expected to be enacted during 2013.
Deferred tax assets deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
After reviews of medium-term profit forecasts, the Group considers that there will be sufficient profits in the future against which these losses will be offset see note 3. deferred tax assets of 330 million 2011: 384 million have not been recognised in respect of capital losses carried forward as there are no predicted future capital profits.
deferred tax assets of 939 million 2011: 733 million have not been recognised in respect of trading losses carried forward, mainly in certain overseas companies and in respect of other temporary differences in the insurance businesses.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 278 279 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 44: Other provisions Payment Other vacant Provisions for protection regulatory leasehold commitments insurance provisions property Other Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2012 81 2,155 344 140 446 3,166 Exchange and other adjustments 2 12 2 15 3 Provisions applied 4 3,299 71 71 33 3,478 Release charge for the year 9 3,575 650 2 58 4,276 At 31 December 2012 66 2,431 935 73 456 3,961 Provisions for commitments Provisions are held in cases where the Group is irrevocably committed to advance additional funds, but where there is doubt as to the customers ability to meet its repayment obligations.
Payment protection insurance Following the unsuccessful legal challenge by the British Bankers Association against the FsA and the Financial Ombudsman service, the Group held discussions with the FsA with a view to seeking clarity around the detailed implementation of the FsA Policy statement which set out evidential provisions and guidance on the fair assessment of a complaint and the calculation of redress in respect of payment protection insurance PPi sales standards.
As a result, the Group concluded that there are certain circumstances where customer redress will be appropriate.
Accordingly the Group made a provision in its income statement for the year ended 31 december 2011 of 3,200 million in respect of the anticipated costs of such redress, including administration expenses.
during the first half of 2012 there was an increase in the volume of complaints being received and, although the level of complaints has declined during the second half of 2012, they are higher than had been anticipated at 31 december 2011.
As a consequence, the Group believes that it is appropriate to increase its provision by a further 3,575 million at 31 december 2012.
This increases the total estimated cost of redress, including administration expenses, to 6,775 million: redress payments made and expenses incurred on the 1.15 million claims paid to the end of december 2012 amounted to 4,344 million.
However, there are still a number of uncertainties as to the eventual redress costs, in particular the total number of complaints and the activities of claims management companies and regulatory bodies.
The Group has calculated the provision by making a number of assumptions based upon current and expected experience.
The principal sensitivities are as follows: the number of claims received: an increase of 100,000 from the level assumed would increase the provision for redress costs by 140 million: uphold rate of claims reviewed: an increase of one percentage point in this assumption would increase the provision by 20 million: average future redress payment: an increase of 100 in this assumption would increase the provision by 70 million.
The Group will reassess the continued appropriateness of the assumptions underlying its analysis at each reporting date in the light of current experience and other relevant evidence.
Other regulatory provisions Litigation in relation to insurance branch business in Germany As previously disclosed, clerical Medical investment Group limited cMiG has received a number of claims in the German courts, relating to policies issued by cMiG but sold by independent intermediaries in Germany, principally during the late 1990s and early 2000s.
in its accounts for the year ended 31 december 2011 the Group recognised a provision of 175 million with respect to this litigation and following decisions in July 2012 from the Federal court of Justice FcJ in Germany the Group has recognised a further provision of 150 million with respect to this litigation, increasing the total provision to 325 million.
However, there are still a number of uncertainties as to the full impact of the FcJs decisions, and the implications with respect to the claims facing cMiG.
As a result the ultimate financial effect, which could be significantly different to the provision, will only be known once there is further clarity with respect to a range of legal issues involved in these claims and or all relevant claims have been resolved.
interest rate hedging products in June 2012, a number of banks, including the Group, reached agreement with the FsA to carry out a thorough assessment of sales made since 1 december 2001 of interest rate hedging products iRHP to certain small and medium-sized businesses.
The Group agreed that on conclusion of this review it would provide redress to any of these customers where appropriate.
Following the completion of a pilot review of iRHP sales to small and medium-sized businesses and agreement reached with the FsA on 30 January 2013 on the principles to be adopted during the course of the wider review, the Group has provided 400 million for the estimated cost of redress and related administration costs.
At 31 december 2012, 20 million of the provision had been utilised.
A number of uncertainties remain as to the eventual costs given the inherent difficulties in determining the number of customers within the scope of the review and the average compensation to customers.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 278 279 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 44: Other provisions continued note 44: Other provisions Other regulatory matters Payment Other vacant in the course of its business, the Group is engaged in discussions with the FsA or other regulators in relation to a range of matters.
in 2012 Provisions for protection regulatory leasehold a provision of 100 million was made in respect of certain uK retail and other matters: however, the ultimate impact on the Group of these commitments insurance provisions property Other Total m m m m m m discussions can only be known at the conclusion of such discussions.
At 1 January 2012 81 2,155 344 140 446 3,166 vacant leasehold property Exchange and other adjustments 2 12 2 15 3 Vacant leasehold property provisions are made by reference to a prudent estimate of expected sub-let income, compared to the head rent, Provisions applied 4 3,299 71 71 33 3,478 and the possibility of disposing of the Groups interest in the lease, taking into account conditions in the property market.
These provisions are Release charge for the year 9 3,575 650 2 58 4,276 reassessed on a biannual basis and will normally run off over the period of under-recovery of the leases concerned, currently averaging three At 31 December 2012 66 2,431 935 73 456 3,961 years: where a property is disposed of earlier than anticipated, any remaining balance in the provision relating to that property is released.
Other Provisions for commitments Provisions are made for staff and other costs related to Group restructuring initiatives at the point at which the Group becomes irrevocably Provisions are held in cases where the Group is irrevocably committed to advance additional funds, but where there is doubt as to the committed to the expenditure.
customers ability to meet its repayment obligations.
Other provisions include those arising out of the insolvency of a third party insurer, which remains exposed to asbestos and pollution claims in the us.
The ultimate cost and timing of payments are uncertain.
The provision held of 37 million at 31 december 2012 represents Payment protection insurance managements current best estimate of the cost after having regard to actuarial estimates of future losses.
Following the unsuccessful legal challenge by the British Bankers Association against the FsA and the Financial Ombudsman service, the Group held discussions with the FsA with a view to seeking clarity around the detailed implementation of the FsA Policy statement which set out evidential provisions and guidance on the fair assessment of a complaint and the calculation of redress in respect of payment protection insurance PPi sales standards.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 280 281 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 45: Subordinated liabilities 2012 2011 2012 2011 note m m m m Preferred securities Preference shares 1,385 1,216 6.90% Perpetual capital securities us$1,000 million b 214 247 Preferred securities 4,394 4,893 6.85% non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred securities us$1,000 million b 238 316 undated subordinated liabilities 1,927 1,949 8.117% non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred securities class A 250 million b, c 262 260 Enhanced capital notes 8,947 9,085 7.627% Fixed to Floating Rate Guaranteed non-voting non-cumulative Preferred securities dated subordinated liabilities 17,439 17,946 e415 million b, d, e 50 340 Total subordinated liabilities 34,092 35,089 7.375% Euro step-up non-voting non-cumulative Preferred securities callable 2012 e430 million a 16 These securities will, in the event of the winding-up of the issuer, be subordinated to the claims of depositors and all other creditors of the 6.35% step-up Perpetual capital securities callable 2013 e500 million 226 239 issuer, other than creditors whose claims rank equally with, or are junior to, the claims of the holders of the subordinated liabilities.
The subordination of specific subordinated liabilities is determined in respect of the issuer and any guarantors of that liability.
The claims of holders 6.071% non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred securities us$750 million 382 389 of preference shares and preferred securities are generally junior to those of the holders of undated subordinated liabilities, which in turn are 7.834% sterling step-up non-voting non-cumulative Preferred securities callable 2015 junior to the claims of holders of the dated subordinated liabilities.
The subordination of the dated Enhanced capital notes ranks equally 250 million a 5 5 with that of the dated subordinated liabilities.
The Group has not had any defaults of principal, interest or other breaches with respect to its 4.939% non-voting non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred securities e750 million a 23 20 subordinated liabilities during the year 2011: none.
no repayment or purchase by the issuer of the subordinated liabilities may be made prior 7.286% Perpetual Regulatory Tier One securities series A 150 million 128 112 to their stated maturity without the consent of the Financial services Authority.
4.385% step-up Perpetual capital securities callable 2017 e750 million a 83 88 The movement in subordinated liabilities during the year was as follows: 6.461% Guaranteed non-voting non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred securities 600 million 439 444 2012 2011 m m 13% step-up Perpetual capital securities callable 2019 785 million a 8 12 At 1 January 35,089 36,232 13% step-up Perpetual capital securities callable 2019 e532 million a 48 47 issued during the year 128 2,302 7.754% non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred securities class B 150 million 98 104 Repurchases and redemptions during the year 857 4,021 12% Fixed to Floating Rate Perpetual Tier 1 capital securities callable 2024 us$2,000 million 1,239 1,301 Foreign exchange and other movements 268 576 7.281% Perpetual Regulatory Tier One securities series B 150 million 95 113 At 31 December 34,092 35,089 13% step-up Perpetual capital securities callable 2029 700 million a 629 612 7.881% Guaranteed non-voting non-cumulative Preferred securities 245 million 227 228 during February 2012, the Group completed the exchange of part of a series of preferred debt securities issued by the HBOs group for a Total preferred securities 4,394 4,893 new series of dated subordinated securities issued by lloyds TsB Bank plc.
This exchange resulted in a gain on the extinguishment of the existing securities of 59 million being the difference between the carrying amount of the securities extinguished and the fair value of the new a in november 2009, as part of the state aid restructuring plan, the Group agreed to suspend the payment of coupons on these instruments for the two year period from 31 January 2010 securities issued together with related fees and costs.
to 31 January 2012. b T hese securities are callable at specific dates as per the terms of the securities at the option of the issuer and with approval from the FsA.
in november 2009, as part of the state aid 2012 2011 restructuring plan, the Group agreed not to exercise any call options on these instruments for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012. note m m c The fixed rate on this security was reset from 8.117 per cent to 6.059 per cent with effect from 31 May 2010.
Preference shares d T he fixed rate on this security was reset from 7.627 per cent to 3 months Euribor plus 2.875 per cent with effect from 9 december 2011. e Following an exchange in February 2012, certain holders elected to exchange some notes into a new series of dated subordinated securities issued by lloyds TsB Bank plc.
6% non-cumulative Redeemable Preference shares a 7.875% non-cumulative Preference shares callable 2013 us$1,250 million b 259 249 7.875% non-cumulative Preference shares callable 2013 e500 million b 149 150 6.0884% non-cumulative Fixed to Floating Rate Preference shares callable 2015 745 million b 10 10 5.92% non-cumulative Fixed to Floating Rate Preference shares callable 2015 us$750 million b 125 11 6.267% non-cumulative Fixed to Floating Rate Preference shares callable 2016 us$1,000 million b 280 301 6.3673% non-cumulative Fixed to Floating Rate Preference shares callable 2019 335 million b 2 2 6.475% non-cumulative Preference shares callable 2024 186 million b 39 38 6.413% non-cumulative Fixed to Floating Rate Preference shares callable 2035 us$750 million b 104 131 6.657% non-cumulative Fixed to Floating Rate Preference shares callable 2037 us$750 million b 14 26 9.25% non-cumulative irredeemable Preference shares 300 million b 350 262 9.75% non-cumulative irredeemable Preference shares 100 million b 53 36 Total preference shares 1,385 1,216 a since 2004, the company has had in issue 400 6 per cent non-cumulative preference shares of 25p each.
The shares, which are redeemable at the option of the company at any time, carry the rights to a fixed rate non-cumulative preferential dividend of 6 per cent per annum: no dividend shall be payable in the event that the directors determine that prudent capital ratios would not be maintained if the dividend were paid.
upon winding up, the shares rank equally with any other preference shares issued by the company.
The holder of the shares waived its right to payment for the period from 1 March 2010 to 1 March 2012. b in november 2009, as part of the state aid restructuring plan, the Group agreed to suspend the payment of coupons on these instruments for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 280 281 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 45: Subordinated liabilities continued 2012 2011 note m m Preferred securities 6.90% Perpetual capital securities us$1,000 million b 214 247 6.85% non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred securities us$1,000 million b 238 316 8.117% non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred securities class A 250 million b, c 262 260 7.627% Fixed to Floating Rate Guaranteed non-voting non-cumulative Preferred securities e415 million b, d, e 50 340 7.375% Euro step-up non-voting non-cumulative Preferred securities callable 2012 e430 million a 16 6.35% step-up Perpetual capital securities callable 2013 e500 million 226 239 6.071% non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred securities us$750 million 382 389 7.834% sterling step-up non-voting non-cumulative Preferred securities callable 2015 250 million a 5 5 4.939% non-voting non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred securities e750 million a 23 20 7.286% Perpetual Regulatory Tier One securities series A 150 million 128 112 4.385% step-up Perpetual capital securities callable 2017 e750 million a 83 88 6.461% Guaranteed non-voting non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred securities 600 million 439 444 13% step-up Perpetual capital securities callable 2019 785 million a 8 12 13% step-up Perpetual capital securities callable 2019 e532 million a 48 47 7.754% non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred securities class B 150 million 98 104 12% Fixed to Floating Rate Perpetual Tier 1 capital securities callable 2024 us$2,000 million 1,239 1,301 7.281% Perpetual Regulatory Tier One securities series B 150 million 95 113 13% step-up Perpetual capital securities callable 2029 700 million a 629 612 7.881% Guaranteed non-voting non-cumulative Preferred securities 245 million 227 228 Total preferred securities 4,394 4,893 a in november 2009, as part of the state aid restructuring plan, the Group agreed to suspend the payment of coupons on these instruments for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012. b These securities are callable at specific dates as per the terms of the securities at the option of the issuer and with approval from the FsA.
in november 2009, as part of the state aid restructuring plan, the Group agreed not to exercise any call options on these instruments for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012. c The fixed rate on this security was reset from 8.117 per cent to 6.059 per cent with effect from 31 May 2010. d The fixed rate on this security was reset from 7.627 per cent to 3 months Euribor plus 2.875 per cent with effect from 9 december 2011. e Following an exchange in February 2012, certain holders elected to exchange some notes into a new series of dated subordinated securities issued by lloyds TsB Bank plc.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 282 283 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 45: Subordinated liabilities continued 2012 2011 note m m Undated subordinated liabilities 6.625% undated subordinated step-up notes 410 million a, b, c 6 1 Floating Rate undated subordinated step-up notes e300 million b 13 10 6.05% Fixed to Floating Rate undated subordinated notes e500 million b, d 5 4 5.375% undated Fixed to Floating Rate subordinated notes us$1,000 million a 9 12 8.625% Perpetual subordinated notes 200 million a 22 24 4.875% undated subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate instruments e750 million a 70 75 Floating Rate undated subordinated notes e500 million a 44 45 4.25% Perpetual Fixed to Floating Rate Reset subordinated Guaranteed notes e750 million clerical Medical Finance plc 261 231 10.25% subordinated undated instruments 100 million a 1 1 5.125% step-up Perpetual subordinated notes callable 2015 560 million scottish Widows plc 556 554 5.125% undated subordinated Fixed to Floating notes e750 million a 45 52 7.5% undated subordinated step-up notes 300 million 4 5 5.125% undated subordinated step-up notes callable 2016 500 million a 2 2 6.5% undated subordinated step-up notes callable 2019 270 million a 1 7.375% undated subordinated Guaranteed Bonds 200 million clerical Medical Finance plc 37 36 5.625% cumulative callable Fixed to Floating Rate undated subordinated notes callable 2019 500 million a 1 12% Perpetual subordinated Bonds 100 million a 21 30 5.75% undated subordinated step-up notes 600 million 3 3 7.375% subordinated undated instruments 150 million a 8.75% Perpetual subordinated Bonds 100 million a 5 4 8% undated subordinated step-up notes callable 2023 200 million a 9.375% Perpetual subordinated Bonds 50 million a 14 17 5.75% undated subordinated step-up notes 500 million 4 3 6.5% undated subordinated step-up notes callable 2029 450 million a 6% undated subordinated step-up Guaranteed Bonds callable 2032 500 million a 10 11 Floating Rate Primary capital notes us$250 million a, b 111 118 Primary capital undated Floating Rate notes: series 1 us$750 million a, b 165 175 a, b 173 183 series 2 us$500 million series 3 us$600 million a, b 223 235 13.625% Perpetual subordinated Bonds 75 million a 19 16 11.75% Perpetual subordinated Bonds 100 million 102 102 Total undated subordinated liabilities 1,927 1,949 a in november 2009, as part of the state aid restructuring plan, the Group agreed to suspend the payment of coupons on these instruments for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012. b These securities are callable at specific dates as per the terms of the securities at the option of the issuer and with approval from the FsA.
in november 2009, as part of the state aid restructuring plan, the Group agreed not to exercise any call options on these instruments for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012. c The fixed rate on this security was reset from 6.625 per cent to 4.64821 per cent with effect from 15 July 2010. d The fixed rate on this security was reset from 6.05 per cent to 3 month Euribor plus 2.25 per cent with effect from 23 november 2011.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 282 283 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 45: Subordinated liabilities continued With the exception of the two series identified in footnote b below, the Ecns were issued in lower tier 2 format and are convertible into ordinary shares on the breach of a defined trigger.
The trigger is if the published core tier 1 ratio of the Group as defined by the Financial services Authority in May 2009 falls below 5 per cent.
2012 2011 note m m enhanced Capital notes 7.625% Enhanced capital notes due 2019 151 million 144 142 8.125% Enhanced capital notes due 2019 4 million 4 4 9% Enhanced capital notes due 2019 97 million 98 98 7.8673% Enhanced capital notes due 2019 331 million 332 330 15% Enhanced capital notes due 2019 775 million 1,093 1,120 15% Enhanced capital notes due 2019 e487 million 571 601 8.875% Enhanced capital notes due 2020 e125 million 113 107 9.334% Enhanced capital notes due 2020 208 million 230 232 7.375% Enhanced capital notes due 2020 e95 million 78 79 Floating Rate Enhanced capital notes due 2020 e53 million a 37 38 7.875% Enhanced capital notes due 2020 us$408 million 267 313 11.04% Enhanced capital notes due 2020 736 million 847 861 7.5884% Enhanced capital notes due 2020 732 million 703 681 6.385% Enhanced capital notes due 2020 e662 million 493 503 6.439% Enhanced capital notes due 2020 e711 million 542 548 8% Fixed to Floating Rate undated Enhanced capital notes callable 2020 us$1,259 million b 662 687 9.125% Enhanced capital notes due 2020 148 million 157 157 12.75% Enhanced capital notes due 2020 57 million 73 73 7.869% Enhanced capital notes due 2020 597 million 591 588 7.625% Enhanced capital notes due 2020 e226 million 181 184 7.875% Enhanced capital notes due 2020 us$986 million 608 629 11.125% Enhanced capital notes due 2020 39 million 44 44 8.5% undated Enhanced capital notes callable 2021 us$277 million b 147 153 14.5% Enhanced capital notes due 2022 79 million 113 114 9.875% Enhanced capital notes due 2023 57 million 66 63 11.25% Enhanced capital notes due 2023 95 million 113 106 10.5% Enhanced capital notes due 2023 69 million 76 67 11.875% Enhanced capital notes due 2024 35 million 45 45 7.975% Enhanced capital notes due 2024 102 million 99 96 16.125% Enhanced capital notes due 2024 61 million 95 97 15% Enhanced capital notes due 2029 68 million 108 108 9% Enhanced capital notes due 2029 107 million 112 112 8.5% Enhanced capital notes due 2032 104 million 105 105 Total enhanced Capital notes 8,947 9,085 a interest is payable quarterly in arrears at a rate of 3 month Euribor plus 3.1 per cent per annum.
b issued in upper tier 2 format.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 284 285 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 45: Subordinated liabilities continued 2012 2011 note m m Dated subordinated liabilities subordinated step-up Floating Rate notes 2016 e500 million a 172 179 subordinated step-up Floating Rate notes 2016 300 million a 184 184 callable Floating Rate subordinated notes 2016 e500 million a 96 88 callable Floating Rate subordinated notes 2016 e500 million a 137 124 subordinated callable notes 2016 us$750 million a 198 191 subordinated callable notes 2017 e1,000 million b 243 219 6.75% subordinated callable Fixed to Floating Rate instruments 2017 Aus$200 million d 6 5 subordinated callable Floating Rate instruments 2017 Aus$400 million b 38 38 5.109% callable Fixed to Floating Rate notes 2017 can$500 million e 8 8 6.25% instruments 2012 e12.8 million 8 subordinated callable notes 2017 us$1,000 million b 198 192 6.305% subordinated callable Fixed to Floating Rate notes 2017 500 million f 21 22 5.50% subordinated Fixed Rate notes 2012 e750 million 640 6.125% notes 2013 e325 million 280 283 5.625% subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate notes due 2018 callable 2013 e1,000 million 858 902 4.25% subordinated Guaranteed notes 2013 us$1,000 million 619 636 6.45% Fixed to Floating subordinated Guaranteed Bonds 2023 e400 million clerical Medical Finance plc 181 176 11% subordinated Bonds 2014 250 million 284 290 5.875% subordinated notes 2014 150 million 157 154 5.875% subordinated Guaranteed Bonds 2014 e750 million 669 713 4.375% callable Fixed to Floating Rate subordinated notes 2019 e750 million 604 621 4.875% subordinated notes 2015 e1,000 million 844 854 6.625% subordinated notes 2015 350 million 375 357 6.9625% callable subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate notes 2020 callable 2015 750 million 716 725 11.875% subordinated Fixed to Fixed Rate notes 2021 callable 2016 e1,147 million 977 977 10.75% subordinated Fixed to Fixed Rate notes 2021 callable 2016 466 million 477 467 9.875% subordinated Fixed to Fixed Rate notes 2021 callable 2016 us$568 million 360 368 10.125% subordinated Fixed to Fixed Rate notes 2021 callable 2016 can$387 million 240 246 13% subordinated Fixed to Fixed Rate notes 2021 callable 2016 Aus$417 million 280 276 10.5% subordinated Bonds 2018 150 million 177 177 6.75% subordinated Fixed Rate notes 2018 us$2,000 million 1,146 1,205 10.375% subordinated Fixed to Fixed Rate notes 2024 callable 2019 e154 million c 143 6.375% subordinated instruments 2019 250 million 281 274 6.5% dated subordinated notes 2020 e1,500 million 1,458 1,407 7.375% dated subordinated notes 2020 4 3 5.75% subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate notes 2025 callable 2020 350 million 371 367 6.5% subordinated Fixed Rate notes 2020 us$2,000 million 1,345 1,360 subordinated Floating Rate notes 2020 e100 million 83 87 9.375% subordinated Bonds 2021 500 million 727 709 5.374% subordinated Fixed Rate notes 2021 e160 million 152 150 9.625% subordinated Bonds 2023 300 million 376 319 7.07% subordinated Fixed Rate notes 2023 e175 million 183 174 4.50% Fixed Rate step-up subordinated notes due 2030 e750 million 457 463 7.625% dated subordinated notes 2025 750 million 915 876 6% subordinated notes 2033 us$750 million 399 432 Total dated subordinated liabilities 17,439 17,946 a These securities are callable at specific dates as per the terms of the securities at the option of the issuer and with approval of the FsA.
in november 2009, as part of the state aid restructuring plan, the Group agreed not to exercise any call options on these instruments for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012. b The floating interest rate payable on these securities reset during 2012. c This security was issued in February 2012 as a result of an exchange offer.
d The interest rate payable on this security was reset from 6.75 per cent fixed to Bank Bill swap Rate plus 0.76 per cent with effect from 1 May 2012. e The interest rate payable on this security was reset from 5.109 per cent fixed to canadian dealer Offered Rate plus 0.65 per cent with effect from 21 June 2012. f The interest rate payable on this security was reset from 6.305 per cent fixed to 3-month libor plus 1.2 per cent with effect from 18 October 2012.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 284 285 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 46: Share capital 1 Authorised share capital As permitted by the companies Act 2006, the company removed references to authorised share capital from its articles of association at the annual general meeting on 5 June 2009.
This change took effect from 1 October 2009.
2 issued and fully paid share capital 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 number of shares number of shares number of shares m m m Ordinary shares of 10p formerly 25p each At 1 January 68,726,627,112 68,074,129,454 63,774,511,536 6,873 6,807 6,378 issued on redemption of preference shares and other subordinated liabilities in 2010 4,299,422,579 429 issued in relation to the payment of coupons on certain hybrid capital securities 479,297,215 47 issued under employee share schemes 1,136,919,962 652,497,658 195,339 114 66 At 31 December 70,342,844,289 68,726,627,112 68,074,129,454 7,034 6,873 6,807 Limited voting ordinary shares of 10p formerly 25p each At 1 January and 31 December 80,921,051 80,921,051 80,921,051 8 8 8 Deferred shares of 15p each At 1 January 27,242,603,417 4,086 cancellation of deferred shares 27,242,603,417 4,086 At 31 December Total issued share capital 7,042 6,881 6,815 On 5 november 2010 the company cancelled all of its deferred shares and an amount of 4,086 million was credited to the capital redemption reserve.
Share issuances in 2012 the Group issued 479 million new ordinary shares in relation to payment of coupons in the year on certain hybrid capital securities that are non-cumulative: the remaining 1,137 million shares issued in 2012 were in respect of employee share schemes.
The shares issued in 2011 were in respect of employee share schemes.
On 18 February 2010, the company issued 3,141 million ordinary shares as consideration for the redemption of certain preference shares and preferred securities.
during May and June 2010, the company issued a further 1,158 million ordinary shares in relation to three separate exchanges for preference shares and other subordinated liabilities issued by the Group.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 286 287 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 46: Share capital continued 3 Share capital and control There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company other than as set out in the articles of association and: certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by law and regulations for example, insider trading laws : pursuant to the uK listing Authoritys listing rules where directors and certain employees of the company require the approval of the company to deal in the companys shares: and pursuant to the rules of some of the companys employee share plans where certain restrictions may apply while the shares are subject to the plans.
Where, under an employee share plan operated by the company, participants are the beneficial owners of shares but not the registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the participant.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
in addition, the company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
information regarding significant direct or indirect holdings of shares in the company can be found on page 83.
The directors have authority to allot and issue ordinary and preference shares and to make market purchases of ordinary and preference shares as granted at the annual general meeting on 17 May 2012.
The authority to issue shares and the authority to make market purchases of shares will expire at the annual general meeting.
shareholders will be asked, at the annual general meeting, to give similar authorities.
subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every holder of shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every member present and entitled to vote has one vote for every share held.
Further details regarding voting at the annual general meeting can be found in the notes to the notice of the annual general meeting.
Ordinary shares The holders of ordinary shares excluding the limited voting ordinary shares, who held 99.9 per cent of the total ordinary share capital at 31 december 2012, are entitled to receive the companys report and accounts, attend, speak and vote at general meetings and appoint proxies to exercise voting rights.
Holders of ordinary shares excluding the limited voting ordinary shares may also receive a dividend subject to the provisions of the companys articles of association and the restrictions noted below and on a winding up may share in the assets of the company.
in november 2009, as part of the restructuring plan that was a requirement for European commission approval of state aid received by the Group, the Group agreed to suspend the payment of coupons and dividends on certain of the Groups preference shares and preferred securities for the two-year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012. consequently, the terms of these instruments prevented the company from making dividend payments on ordinary shares during that period.
Limited voting ordinary shares The limited voting ordinary shares are held by the lloyds TsB Foundations the Foundations.
The holders of the limited voting ordinary shares, who held 0.1 per cent of the total ordinary share capital at 31 december 2012, are entitled to receive copies of every circular or other document sent out by the company to the holders of other ordinary shares.
These shares carry no rights to dividends but rank pari passu with the ordinary shares in respect of other distributions and in the event of winding up.
These shares do not have any right to vote at general meetings other than on resolutions concerning acquisitions or disposals of such importance that they require shareholder consent, or for the winding up of the company, or for a variation in the class rights of the limited voting ordinary shares.
in the event of an offer for more than 50 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the company, each limited voting ordinary share will convert into an ordinary share and shall rank equally with the ordinary shares in all respects from the date of conversion.
Preference shares The company has in issue various classes of preference shares which are all classified as liabilities under iFRs and details of which are shown in note 45.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 286 287 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 47: Share premium account 2012 2011 2010 m m m At 1 January 16,541 16,291 14,472 1 issued in relation to the settlement of coupons on certain hybrid capital securities 123 issued under employee share schemes 208 250 shares issued on redemption and exchange of preference shares 2 and other subordinated liabilities 1,808 3 Redemption of preference shares 11 At 31 December 16,872 16,541 16,291 1 during the year the Group issued new ordinary shares for a consideration of 170 million in relation to payment of coupons in 2012 on certain hybrid capital securities that are non-cumulative.
2 On 18 February 2010, the company issued 3,141 million ordinary shares as consideration for the redemption of certain preference shares and preferred securities: and during May and June 2010, the company issued a further 1,158 million ordinary shares in relation to three separate exchanges for preference shares and other subordinated liabilities issued by the Group.
A total share premium of 1,808 million was recorded in respect of these transactions.
3 in January 2010, the company repurchased and cancelled certain preference shares amounting to 14 million.
This resulted in a transfer of 3 million from the merger reserve to the capital redemption reserve and a transfer of 11 million from the merger reserve to the share premium account.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 288 289 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 48: Other reserves 2012 2011 2010 m m m Other reserves comprise: Merger reserve 8,107 8,107 8,107 capital redemption reserve 4,115 4,115 4,115 Revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale financial assets 399 1,326 285 cash flow hedging reserve 350 325 391 Foreign currency translation reserve 69 55 29 At 31 December 12,902 13,818 11,575 The merger reserve primarily comprises the premium on shares issued on 13 January 2009 under the placing and open offer and shares issued on 16 January 2009 on the acquisition of HBOs plc.
The capital redemption reserve represents transfers from the merger reserve in accordance with companies legislation and amounts transferred from share capital following the cancellation of the deferred shares.
The revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale financial assets represents the cumulative after tax unrealised change in the fair value of financial assets classified as available-for-sale since initial recognition: in the case of available-for-sale financial assets obtained on acquisitions of businesses, since the date of acquisition: and in the case of transferred assets that were previously held at amortised cost, by reference to that amortised cost.
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative after tax gains and losses on effective cash flow hedging instruments that will be reclassified to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
The foreign currency translation reserve represents the cumulative after-tax gains and losses on the translation of foreign operations and exchange differences arising on financial instruments designated as hedges of the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
Movements in other reserves were as follows: 2012 2011 2010 m m m Merger reserve At 1 January 8,107 8,107 8,121 1 Redemption of preference shares 14 At 31 December 8,107 8,107 8,107 2012 2011 2010 m m m Capital redemption reserve At 1 January 4,115 4,115 26 cancellation of deferred shares note 46 4,086 1 Redemption of preference shares 3 At 31 December 4,115 4,115 4,115 1 in January 2010, the company repurchased and cancelled certain preference shares amounting to 14 million.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 288 289 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 48: Other reserves continued 2012 2011 2010 m m m Revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale financial assets At 1 January 1,326 285 783 Adjustment on transfer from held-to-maturity portfolio 1,168 change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 779 2,603 1,231 deferred tax 445 673 460 current tax 3 8 1,499 1,930 763 income statement transfers: disposals note 9 3,547 343 399 deferred tax 848 30 106 2,699 313 293 impairment 42 80 114 deferred tax 12 29 5 54 109 109 Other transfers 290 155 110 deferred tax 71 40 29 219 115 81 At 31 December 399 1,326 285 2012 2011 2010 m m m Cash flow hedging reserve At 1 January 325 391 305 change in fair value of hedging derivatives 116 916 1,048 deferred tax 17 257 272 current tax 3 99 659 779 income statement transfers note 5 92 70 932 deferred tax 18 13 239 74 57 693 At 31 December 350 325 391 2012 2011 2010 m m m Foreign currency translation reserve At 1 January 55 29 158 currency translation differences arising in the year 69 58 33 Foreign currency gains losses on net investment hedges tax: nil 55 26 162 At 31 December 69 55 29 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 290 291 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 49: Retained profits 2012 2011 2010 m m m At 1 January 8,680 11,380 11,117 loss for the year 1,427 2,787 320 Movement in treasury shares 407 276 20 Value of employee services: share option schemes 81 125 154 Other employee award schemes 256 238 409 At 31 December 7,183 8,680 11,380 Retained profits are stated after deducting 158 million 2011: 33 million: 2010: 47 million representing 301 million 2011: 58 million: 2010: 49 million treasury shares held.
note 50: Ordinary dividends no dividends were paid on ordinary shares during 2010, 2011 or 2012 and the directors do not propose to pay a final dividend in respect of 2012: in november 2009, as part of the restructuring plan that was a requirement for European commission approval of state aid received by the Group, the Group agreed to suspend the payment of coupons and dividends on certain of the Groups preference shares and preferred securities, for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012. consequently, the terms of these instruments prevented the company from making dividend payments on ordinary shares up to that date.
in addition, the trustees of the following holdings of lloyds Banking Group plc shares in relation to employee share schemes retain the right to receive dividends but chose to waive their entitlement to the dividends on those shares as indicated: the lloyds Banking Group share incentive Plan holding at 31 december 2012: 12,040,715 shares, 31 december 2011: 8,091,460 shares, waived rights to all dividends, the lloyds TsB Group Employee share Ownership Trust holding at 31 december 2012: 73,007,743 shares, 31 december 2011: 120,085,543 shares, on which it waived rights to all dividends and holding at 31 december 2012: nil shares, 31 december 2011: 253,052 shares, on which it waived rights to all but a nominal amount of one penny in total, lloyds TsB Group Holdings Jersey limited holding at 31 december 2012: 42,846 shares, 31 december 2011: 42,846 shares, waived rights to all but a nominal amount of one penny in total and the lloyds TsB Qualifying Employee share Ownership Trust holding at 31 december 2012: 1,398 shares, 31 december 2011: 1,398 shares, waived rights to all but a nominal amount of one penny in total.
note 51: Share-based payments Charge to the income statement The charge to the income statement is set out below: 2012 2011 2010 m m m deferred bonus plan 248 221 355 Executive and sAYE plans: Options granted in the year 12 13 59 Options granted in prior years 65 130 75 77 143 134 share plans: shares granted in the year 3 3 3 shares granted in prior years 5 9 49 8 12 52 Total charge to the income statement 333 376 541 during the year ended 31 december 2012 the Group operated the following share-based payment schemes, all of which are equity settled.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 290 291 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 51: Share-based payments continued Deferred bonus plans Bonuses in respect of the performance in 2012 of employees within certain of the Groups bonus plans have been recognised in these financial statements in full.
The amounts to be settled in shares are included within the total charge to the income statement detailed above.
Lloyds Banking Group executive share option schemes The executive share option schemes were long-term incentive schemes available to certain senior executives of the Group, with grants usually made annually.
Options were granted within limits set by the rules of the schemes relating to the number of shares under option and the price payable on the exercise of options.
The last grant of executive options was made in August 2005.
These options were granted without a performance multiplier and the maximum limit for the grant of options in normal circumstances was three times annual salary.
Between March 2004 and August 2004, the aggregate value of the award based upon the market price at the date of grant could not exceed four times the executives annual remuneration and, normally, the limit for the grant of options to an executive in any one year would be equal to 1.5 times annual salary with a maximum performance multiplier of 3.5.
Performance conditions for executive options For options granted in 2004 The performance condition was linked to the performance of lloyds Banking Group plcs total shareholder return calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price against a comparator group of 17 companies including lloyds Banking Group plc.
The performance condition was measured over a three year period which commenced at the end of the financial year preceding the grant of the option and continued until the end of the third subsequent year.
if the performance condition was not then met, it was measured at the end of the fourth financial year.
if the condition was not then met, the options would lapse.
To meet the performance conditions, the Groups ranking against the comparator group was required to be at least ninth.
The full grant of options only became exercisable if the Group was ranked first.
A performance multiplier of between nil and 100 per cent was applied below this level to calculate the number of shares in respect of which options granted to Executive directors would become exercisable, and were calculated on a sliding scale.
if lloyds Banking Group plc was ranked below median the options would not be exercisable.
Options granted to senior executives other than Executive directors were not so highly leveraged and, as a result, different performance multipliers were applied to their options.
For the majority of executives, options were granted with the performance condition but with no performance multiplier.
Options granted in 2004 became exercisable as the performance condition was met on the re-test.
The performance condition vested at 14 per cent for Executive directors, 24 per cent for Managing directors, and 100 per cent for all other executives.
For options granted in 2005 The same conditions applied as for grants made in 2004, except that: the performance condition was linked to the performance of lloyds Banking Group plcs total shareholder return calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price against a comparator group of 15 companies including lloyds Banking Group plc: if the performance condition was not met at the end of the third subsequent year, the options would lapse: and the full grant of options became exercisable only if the Group was ranked in the top four places of the comparator group.
A sliding scale applied between fourth and eighth positions.
if lloyds Banking Group was ranked below the median ninth or below the options would lapse.
Options granted in 2005 became exercisable as the performance condition was met when tested.
The performance condition vested at 82.5 per cent for all options granted.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 292 293 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 51: Share-based payments continued Movements in the number of share options outstanding under the executive share option schemes during 2011 and 2012 are set out below: 2012 2011 Weighted average Weighted average number of exercise price number of exercise price options pence options pence Outstanding at 1 January 10,174,869 225.15 13,363,301 233.09 Forfeited 2,129,973 225.92 2,140,790 225.91 lapsed 1,047,642 324.92 Outstanding at 31 December 8,044,896 224.95 10,174,869 225.15 exercisable at 31 December 8,044,896 224.95 10,174,869 225.15 no options were exercised during 2012 or 2011.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the end of the year was 1.9 years 2011: 2.9 years.
The fair values of the executive share options have been determined using a standard Black-scholes model.
Save-As-you-earn schemes Eligible employees may enter into contracts through the save-As-You-Earn schemes to save up to 250 per month and, at the expiry of a fixed term of three, five or seven years, have the option to use these savings within six months of the expiry of the fixed term to acquire shares in the Group at a discounted price of no less than 80 per cent of the market price at the start of the invitation.
The weighted average share price at the time that the options were exercised during 2011 was 0.54.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the end of the year was 0.8 years 2011: 1.7 years.
no sAYE options were granted in 2012 or 2011.
The fair values of the sAYE options have been determined using a standard Black-scholes model.
For the HBOs sharesave plan, no options were exercised during 2012 or 2011.
The options outstanding at 31 december 2012 had an exercise price of 1.8066 2011: 1.8066 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.1 years 2011: 2.0 years.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 292 293 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 51: Share-based payments continued Other share option plans Lloyds Banking Group executive Share Plan 2003 The Plan was adopted in december 2003 and under the Plan share options may be granted to senior employees.
Options under this plan have been granted specifically to facilitate recruitment and as such were not subject to any performance conditions.
The Plans usage has now been extended to not only compensate new recruits for any lost share awards but also to make grants to key individuals for retention purposes with, in some instances, the grant being made subject to individual performance conditions.
Participants are not entitled to any dividends paid during the vesting period.
2012 2011 Weighted average Weighted average number of exercise price number of exercise price options pence options pence Outstanding at 1 January 53,000,069 nil 47,694,757 nil Granted 34,345,366 nil 16,395,016 nil Exercised 41,290,412 nil 7,591,526 nil Forfeited 440,873 nil 3,498,178 nil Outstanding at 31 December 45,614,150 nil 53,000,069 nil exercisable at 31 December 3,065,531 nil 2,310,418 nil The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year was 0.30 2011: 0.46.
The fair values of options granted have been determined using a standard Black-scholes model.
The weighted average share price at the time that the options were exercised during 2012 was 0.33 2011: 0.51.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the end of the year was 3.7 years 2011: 2.1 years.
Lloyds Banking Group Share Buy Out Awards As part of arrangements to facilitate the recruitment of certain Executives, options have been granted by individual deed and, where appropriate, in accordance with the listing Rules of the uK listing Authority.
The awards were granted in recognition that the Executives outstanding awards over shares in their previous employing company lapsed on accepting employment with the Group.
Movements in the number of options outstanding are set out below: 2012 2011 Weighted average Weighted average number of exercise price number of exercise price options pence options pence Outstanding at 1 January 21,321,237 nil Granted 21,728,172 nil Exercised 406,935 nil Outstanding at 31 December 21,321,237 nil 21,321,237 nil exercisable at 31 December 16,509,862 nil 2,398,593 nil no options were granted or exercised in 2012.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2011 was 0.38.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the end of the year was 8.6 years 2011: 9.6 years.
Participants are entitled to any dividends paid during the vesting period.
This amount will be paid in cash unless the Remuneration committee decides it will be paid in shares.
The fair values of the majority of options granted have been determined using a standard Black-scholes model.
The fair values of the remaining options have been determined by Monte carlo simulation.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 294 295 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 51: Share-based payments continued HBOS share option plans The table below details the outstanding options for the HBOs share Option Plan and the st Jamess Place share Option Plan.
The final award under the HBOs share Option Plan was made in 2004. under this plan, options over shares, at market value with a face value equal to 20 per cent of salary, were granted to employees with the exception of certain senior executives.
A separate option plan exists for some partners of st Jamess Place, which granted options in respect of lloyds Banking Group plc shares.
The final award under the st Jamess Place share Option Plan was made in 2009.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding under these schemes are set out below: Participants are not entitled to any dividends paid during the vesting period.
The options outstanding under the HBOs share Option Plan and st Jamess Place share Option Plan at 31 december 2012 had exercise prices in the range of 0.5183 to 5.80 2011: 0.5183 to 8.7189 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.1 years 2011: 2.0 years.
Other share plans Lloyds Banking Group Long-Term incentive Plan The long-Term incentive Plan lTiP introduced in 2006 is aimed at delivering shareholder value by linking the receipt of shares to an improvement in the performance of the Group over a three year period.
Awards are made within limits set by the rules of the Plan, with the limits determining the maximum number of shares that can be awarded equating to three times annual salary.
in exceptional circumstances this may increase to four times annual salary.
Participants may be entitled to any dividends paid during the vesting period if the performance conditions are met.
An amount equal in value to any dividends paid between the award date and the date the Remuneration committee determine that the performance conditions were met may be paid, based on the number of shares that vest.
The Remuneration committee will determine if any dividends are to be paid in cash or in shares.
The performance conditions for awards made in April, May and september 2009 were as follows: i earnings per share ePS : relevant to 50 per cent of the award.
Performance was measured based on EPs growth over a three-year period from the baseline EPs of 2008. if the growth in EPs reached 26 per cent, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, would vest.
if growth in EPs reached 36 per cent, 100 per cent of this element would vest.
ii economic Profit eP : relevant to 50 per cent of the award.
Performance was measured based on the extent to which cumulative EP targets were achieved over the three-year period.
if the absolute improvement in adjusted EP reached 100 per cent, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, would vest.
if the absolute improvement in adjusted EP reached 202 per cent, 100 per cent of this element would vest.
The EPs and EP performance measures applying to this 2009 lTiP award were set on the basis that the Group would enter into the Government Asset Protection scheme.
As the Group did not participate in the Government Asset Protection scheme, in June 2010 the Remuneration committee approved restated performance measures on a basis consistent with the EPs and EP measures used for the 2010 lTiP awards.
At the end of the relevant period, neither of the performance conditions had been met and the awards lapsed.
An additional discretionary award was made in April, May and september 2009.
The performance conditions for those awards were as follows: i Synergy Savings: The release of 50 per cent of the shares was dependent on the achievement of target run-rate synergy savings in 2009 and 2010 as well as the achievement of sustainable synergy savings of at least 1.5 billion by the end of 2011.
The award was broken down into three equally weighted annual tranches.
Performance was assessed at the end of each year against annual performance targets based on a trajectory to meet the 2011 target.
The extent to which targets were achieved determined the proportion of shares to be banked each year.
Any release of shares was subject to the Remuneration committee judging the overall success of the delivery of the integration programme.
ii integration Balanced Scorecard: The release of the remaining 50 per cent of the shares was dependent on the outcome of a Balanced scorecard of non-financial measures of the success of the integration in each of 2009, 2010 and 2011.
The Balanced scorecard element was broken down into three equally weighted tranches.
The tranches were crystallised and banked for each year of the performance cycle subject to separate annual performance targets across the four measurement categories of Building the Business, customer, Risk and People and Organisation development.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 294 295 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 51: Share-based payments continued The performance conditions were met and, as a consequence, the share awards vested in full in March 2012 for all participants, with the exception of current and former Executive directors.
The performance conditions for awards made in March and August 2010 were as follows: i ePS: relevant to 50 per cent of the award.
Performance was measured based on EPs growth over a three-year period from the baseline EPs of 2009. if the absolute improvement in adjusted EPs reached 158 per cent, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, would vest.
if absolute improvement in adjusted EPs reached 180 per cent, 100 per cent of this element would vest.
Vesting between threshold and maximum would be on a straight line basis.
ii eP: relevant to 50 per cent of the award.
Performance was measured based on the compound annual growth rate of adjusted EP over the three financial years starting on 1 January 2010 relative to an adjusted 2009 EP base.
if the compounded annual growth rate of adjusted EP reached 57 per cent per annum, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, would vest.
if the compounded annual growth rate of adjusted EP reached 77 per cent per annum, 100 per cent of this element would vest.
For awards made to Executive directors, a third performance condition was set, relating to Absolute share Price, relevant to 28 per cent of the award.
Performance will be measured based on the Absolute share Price on 26 March 2013, being the third anniversary of the award date.
if the share price at the end of the performance period is 75 pence or less, none of this element of the award will vest.
if the share price is 114 pence or higher, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
Vesting between threshold and maximum will be on a straight line basis, provided that shares comprised in the Absolute share Price element may only be released if both the EPs and EP performance measures have been satisfied at the threshold level or above.
The EPs and EP performance conditions each relate to 36 per cent of the total award.
At the end of the performance period for the EPs and EP measures, it has been assessed that neither of the performance conditions has been met and, therefore, the awards will not vest.
The performance conditions for awards made in March and september 2011 are as follows: i ePS: relevant to 50 per cent of the award.
The performance target is based on 2013 adjusted EPs outcome.
if the adjusted EPs reaches 6.4p, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
if adjusted EPs reaches 7.4p, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
Vesting between threshold and maximum will be on a straight line basis.
The performance target is based on 2013 adjusted EP outcome.
if the adjusted EP reaches 567 million, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
if the adjusted EP reaches 1,234 million, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
For awards made to Executive directors, a third performance condition was set, relating to Absolute Total shareholder Return, relevant to one third of the award.
Performance will be measured based on the annualised Absolute Total shareholder Return over the three year performance period.
if the annualised Absolute Total shareholder Return at the end of the performance period is less than 8 per cent, none of this element of the award will vest.
if the Absolute Total shareholder Return is 8 per cent, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
if the Absolute Total shareholder Return is 14 per cent or higher, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
The EPs and EP performance conditions will each relate to 33.3 per cent of the total award.
The performance conditions for awards made in March and september 2012 are as follows: i eP: relevant to 30 per cent of the award.
The performance target is based on 2014 adjusted EP outcome.
if the adjusted EP reaches 160 million, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
if the adjusted EP reaches 1,653 million, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
ii Absolute Total Shareholder Return ATSR : relevant to 30 per cent of the award.
Performance will be measured against the annualised return over the three year period ending 31 december 2014. if the ATsR reaches 12 per cent per annum, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
if the ATsR reaches 30 per cent per annum, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 296 297 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 51: Share-based payments continued iii Short-term funding as a percentage of total funding: relevant to 10 per cent of the award.
Performance will be measured relative to 2014 targets.
if the average percentage reaches 20 per cent, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
if the average percentage reaches 15 per cent, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
iv non-core assets at the end of 2014: relevant to 10 per cent of the award.
Performance will be measured by reference to balance sheet non-core assets at 31 december 2014. if non-core assets amount to 95 billion or less, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
if non-core assets amount to 80 billion or less, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
v net Simplification benefits: relevant to 10 per cent of the award.
Performance will be measured by reference to the run rate achieved by the end of 2014. if a run rate of net simplification benefits of 1.5 billion is achieved, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
if a run rate of net simplification benefits of 1.8 billion is achieved, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
vi Customer satisfaction: relevant to 10 per cent of the award.
Performance will be measured by reference to the total number of FsA reportable complaints per 1,000 customers over the three year period to 31 december 2014. if complaints per 1,000 customers average 1.5 per annum or less over three years, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
if complaints per 1,000 customers average 1.3 per annum or less over three years, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
The fair values of the majority of share awards granted have been determined using a standard Black-scholes model.
The fair values of the remaining share awards have been determined by Monte carlo simulation.
Scottish Widows investment Partnership Long-Term incentive Plan The scottish Widows investment Partnership sWiP long-Term incentive Plan applicable to senior executives and employees of sWiP, which had previously been a cash-only scheme, was amended in May 2012 for awards granted on or after that date.
The amendment introduced the receipt of shares in lloyds Banking Group plc as an element of the total award.
The other element will continue to be cash based, with the split between cash based and share based determined by the Remuneration committee.
The amendment is aimed at delivering shareholder value by linking the receipt of shares to an improvement in the performance of sWiP over a three year period.
Awards are made within limits set by the rules of the Plan, with the maximum limits for combined cash and shares awarded equating to 3.5 times annual salary.
in exceptional circumstances this may increase to 4 times annual salary.
The performance conditions for share-based awards made in June 2012 are as follows: i Profitability: relevant to 40 per cent of the award.
The performance target is based on a cumulative 3 year profit before tax.
if cumulative profit before tax reaches a specified target level, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
if cumulative profit before tax reaches 90 per cent of the target level, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
if cumulative profit before tax reaches 110 per cent of the target level, 200 per cent of this element of the award, being the maximum, will vest.
no award will be made where performance is below the threshold.
Vesting between threshold and target and between target and maximum will be on a straight line basis.
ii investment performance: relevant to 40 per cent of the award.
The performance target is based on the percentage of sWiP funds achieving at or above benchmark performance on a competitor median or index basis over the 3 year period.
if 50 per cent of funds exceed benchmark performance, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
if 55 per cent of funds exceed benchmark performance, 100 per cent of this element, being the target, will vest.
if 70 per cent of funds exceed benchmark performance, 200 per cent of this element of the award, being the maximum, will vest.
iii Funds under management FUM growth: relevant to 20 per cent of the award.
The performance target is based on growth in the value of third party assets managed by sWiP by the end of the 3 year period.
if third party FuM reaches a specified target level, 100 per cent of this Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 296 297 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 51: Share-based payments continued element of the award will vest.
if third party FuM reaches 80 per cent of the target level, 25 per cent of this element, being the threshold, will vest.
if third party FuM reaches 120 per cent of the target level, 200 per cent of this element of the award, being the maximum, will vest.
For awards made to sWiPs code staff as defined by FsA, a fourth performance condition was set, relating to an internal measure of operational risk.
This additional measure is relevant to 15 per cent of the award for these individuals, with a corresponding 5 per cent reduction in each of the weightings for the other three measures described above.
As with the other measures, this performance condition has a target value at which 100 per cent of the award will vest, a maximum value at which 200 per cent of the award will vest, and a threshold value at which 25 per cent of the award will vest.
The relevant period commenced on 1 January 2012 and ends on 31 december 2014.
2012 2011 number of number of shares shares Outstanding at 1 January Granted 5,452,877 Outstanding at 31 December 5,452,877 The fair value of the share awards granted in 2012 was 0.27.
The fair values of share awards granted have been determined using a standard Black-scholes model.
The ranges of exercise prices, weighted average exercise prices, weighted average remaining contractual life and number of options outstanding for the option schemes were as follows: executive schemes SAye schemes Other share option plans Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average average average exercise remaining exercise remaining exercise remaining price life number of price life number of price life number of pence years options pence years options pence years options At 31 December 2012 Exercise price range 0 to 1 46.79 0.8 311,648,405 5.43 4.9 74,766,919 1 to 2 199.91 1.6 233,714 178.14 1.8 2,923,618 2 to 3 225.69 1.9 7,811,182 3 to 4 5 to 6 566.89 0.9 12,026,160 Executive schemes sAYE schemes Other share option plans Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average average average exercise remaining exercise remaining exercise remaining price life number of price life number of price life number of pence years options pence years options pence years options At 31 december 2011 Exercise price range 0 to 1 47.94 1.7 446,965,447 4.94 4.1 82,152,838 1 to 2 199.91 2.6 233,714 179.16 2.0 5,563,072 2 to 3 225.74 2.9 9,941,155 214.16 0.9 490,513 3 to 4 5 to 6 582.82 1.8 14,227,020 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 298 299 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 51: Shared-based payments continued The fair value calculations at 31 december 2012 for grants made in the year, using Black-scholes models and Monte carlo simulation, are based on the following assumptions: executive Share Plan Share Buy SWiP 2003 LTiP Out Awards LTiP Weighted average risk-free interest rate 0.45% 0.52% 0.86% 0.38% Weighted average expected life 2.5 years 3.0 years 1.3 years 2.8 years Weighted average expected volatility 63% 78% 51% 81% Weighted average expected dividend yield 4.1% 4.3% 1.6% 4.5% Weighted average share price 0.33 0.35 0.41 0.31 Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil Expected volatility is a measure of the amount by which the Groups shares are expected to fluctuate during the life of an option.
The expected volatility is estimated based on the historical volatility of the closing daily share price over the most recent period that is commensurate with the expected life of the option.
The historical volatility is compared to the implied volatility generated from market traded options in the Groups shares to assess the reasonableness of the historical volatility and adjustments made where appropriate.
Share incentive plan Free shares An award of shares may be made annually to employees based on a percentage of each employees salary in the preceding year up to a maximum of 3,000.
The percentage is normally announced concurrently with the Groups annual results and the price of the shares awarded is announced at the time of award.
The shares awarded are held in trust for a mandatory period of three years on the employees behalf, during which period the employee is entitled to any dividends paid on such shares.
The award is subject to a non-market based condition: if an employee leaves the Group within this three year period for other than a good reason, all of the shares awarded will be forfeited.
The last award of free shares was made in 2008.
Matching shares The Group undertakes to match shares purchased by employees up to the value of 30 per month: these matching shares are held in trust for a mandatory period of three years on the employees behalf, during which period the employee is entitled to any dividends paid on such shares.
The award is subject to a non-market based condition: if an employee leaves within this three year period for other than a good reason, 100 per cent of the matching shares are forfeited.
similarly if the employees sell their purchased shares within three years, their matching shares are forfeited.
The number of shares awarded relating to matching shares in 2012 was 36,158,343 2011: 30,999,387, with an average fair value of 0.34 2011: 0.42, based on market prices at the date of award.
note 52: Related party transactions Key management personnel Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of an entity: the Groups key management personnel are the members of the lloyds Banking Group plc Group Executive committee together with its non-Executive directors.
The table below details, on an aggregated basis, key management personnel compensation: 2012 2011 2010 m m m Compensation salaries and other short-term benefits 12 12 7 Post-employment benefits 2 share-based payments 13 11 8 Total compensation 25 23 17 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 298 299 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 52: Related party transactions continued Aggregate contributions in respect of key management personnel to defined contribution pension schemes were 0.1 million 2011: 0.2 million: 2010: 0.4 million.
2012 2011 2010 million million million Share option plans At 1 January 22 6 2 1 Granted, including certain adjustments includes entitlements of appointed key management personnel 8 20 4 Exercised lapsed includes entitlements of former key management personnel 5 4 At 31 December 25 22 6 1 2010 includes adjustments, using a standard HMRc formula, to negate the dilutionary impact of the Groups 2009 capital raising activities.
2012 2011 2010 million million million Share plans At 1 January 58 56 19 1 Granted, including certain adjustments includes entitlements of appointed key management personnel 45 35 39 Exercised lapsed includes entitlements of former key management personnel 33 33 2 At 31 December 70 58 56 1 2010 includes adjustments, using a standard HMRc formula, to negate the dilutionary impact of the Groups 2009 capital raising activities.
The tables below detail, on an aggregated basis, balances outstanding at the year end and related income and expense, together with information relating to other transactions between the Group and its key management personnel: 2012 2011 2010 m m m Loans At 1 January 3 3 2 Advanced includes loans of appointed key management personnel 3 1 2 Repayments includes loans of former key management personnel 4 1 1 At 31 December 2 3 3 The loans are on both a secured and unsecured basis and are expected to be settled in cash.
The loans attracted interest rates of between 2.5 per cent and 29.95 per cent in 2012 2011: 1.09 per cent and 27.5 per cent: 2010: 0.5 per cent and 17.90 per cent.
no provisions have been recognised in respect of loans given to key management personnel 2011 and 2010: nil.
2012 2011 2010 m m m Deposits At 1 January 6 4 4 Placed includes deposits of appointed key management personnel 39 17 12 Withdrawn includes deposits of former key management personnel 35 15 12 At 31 December 10 6 4 deposits placed by key management personnel attracted interest rates of up to 3.8 per cent 2011: 5 per cent: 2010: 4.25 per cent.
At 31 december 2012, the Group did not provide any guarantees in respect of key management personnel 2011 and 2010: none.
At 31 december 2012, transactions, arrangements and agreements entered into by the Groups banking subsidiaries with directors and connected persons included amounts outstanding in respect of loans and credit card transactions of 1 million with five directors and three connected persons 2011: 3 million with four directors and three connected persons: 2010: 2 million with six directors and four connected persons.
Subsidiaries details of the principal subsidiaries are given in note 9 to the parent company financial statements.
in accordance with iAs 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements, transactions and balances with subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 300 301 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 52: Related party transactions continued 6,479 million 2011: 4,431 million at 31 december.
The Group earned fees of 325 million from the unconsolidated OEics during 2012 2011: UK Government 318 million.
in January 2009, the uK Government through HM Treasury became a related party of the company following its subscription for ordinary shares issued under a placing and open offer.
At 31 december 2012, HM Treasury held a 39.2 per cent 2011: 40.2 per cent interest in Joint ventures and associates the companys ordinary share capital and consequently HM Treasury remained a related party of the company during the year ended The Group provides both administration and processing services to its principal joint venture, sainsburys Bank plc.
The amounts receivable by 31 december 2012. the Group during the year were 32 million 2011: 21 million, of which 16 million was outstanding at 31 december 2012 2011: 10 million.
At From 1 January 2011, in accordance with iAs 24, uK  entities became related parties of the Group.
The Group regards 31 december 2012, sainsburys Bank plc also had balances with the Group that were included in loans and advances to banks of 1,229 million the Bank of England and entities controlled by the uK Government, including The Royal Bank of scotland Group plc, northern Rock Asset 2011: 1,173 million, deposits by banks of 1,268 million 2011: 780 million and trading liabilities of nil 2011: 340 million.
Management plc and Bradford & Bingley plc, as related parties.
At 31 december 2012 there were loans and advances to customers of 3,424 million 2011: 5,185 million outstanding and balances within since 31 december 2011, the Group has had the following significant transactions with the uK Government or uK Government-related entities: customer deposits of 45 million 2011: 88 million relating to other joint ventures and associates.
in addition to the above balances, the Group has a number of other associates held by its venture capital business that it accounts for at fair Government and central bank facilities value through profit or loss.
At 31 december 2012, these companies had total assets of approximately 10,759 million 2011: 11,500 million, during the year ended 31 december 2012, the Group participated in a number of schemes operated by the uK Government and central banks total liabilities of approximately 10,956 million 2011: 10,807 million and for the year ended 31 december 2012 had turnover of approximately and made available to eligible banks and building societies.
8,169 million 2011: 7,376 million and made a net loss of approximately 488 million 2011: net loss of 83 million.
in addition, the Group has provided 5,146 million 2011: 5,767 million of financing to these companies on which it received 208 million 2011: 106 million of interest Credit guarantee scheme income in the year.
HM Treasury launched the credit Guarantee scheme in October 2008.
The drawdown window for the credit Guarantee scheme closed for new issuance at the end of February 2010.
At 31 december 2011, the Group had 23.5 billion of debt in issue under the credit Guarantee scheme but this was all repaid during 2012. during the year ended 31 december 2012, fees of 59 million paid to HM Treasury in respect of note 53: Contingent liabilities and commitments guaranteed funding were included in the Groups income statement 2011: 291 million.
interchange fees national Loan Guarantee Scheme The Group is participating in the uK Governments national loan Guarantee scheme, which was launched on 20 March 2012.
Through the On 24 May 2012, the General court of the European union upheld the European commissions 2007 decision that an infringement of Eu scheme, the Group is providing eligible uK businesses with discounted funding, subject to continuation of the scheme and its financial competition law had arisen from arrangements whereby Mastercard issuers charged a uniform fallback interchange fee MiFs in respect of benefits, and based on the Groups existing lending criteria.
Eligible businesses who take up the funding benefit from a 1 per cent discount on cross border transactions in relation to the use of a Mastercard or Maestro branded payment card.
their funding rate for a certain period of time.
Mastercard has appealed the General courts judgment to the court of Justice of the European union.
Mastercard is supported by several card issuers, including lloyds Banking Group.
Judgment is not expected until late 2013 or later.
Business Growth Fund in parallel: in May 2011 the Group agreed, together with The Royal Bank of scotland plc and three other non-related parties, to commit up to 300 million of equity investment by subscribing for shares in the Business Growth Fund plc which is the company created to fulfil the role of the European commission is also considering further action, including introducing legislation to regulate interchange fees, following its the Business Growth Fund as set out in the British Bankers Associations Business Taskforce Report of October 2010.
At 31 december 2012, 2012 Green Paper Towards an integrated European market for cards, internet and mobile payments consultation: the Group had invested 50 million 2011: 20 million in the Business Growth Fund and carried the investment at a fair value of 44 million the European commission is pursuing an investigation with a view to deciding whether arrangements adopted by VisA for the levying of 2011: 16 million.
the MiF in respect of cross-border credit card payment transactions also infringe European union competition laws.
in this regard VisA reached an agreement which expires in 2014 with the European commission to reduce the level of interchange fee for cross-border debit Big Society Capital card transactions to the interim levels agreed by Mastercard: and in January 2012 the Group agreed, together with The Royal Bank of scotland plc and two other non-related parties, to commit up to 50 million each of equity investment into the Big society capital Fund.
The Fund, which was created as part of the Project Merlin the Office of Fair Trading OFT may decide to renew its ongoing examination of whether the levels of interchange fees paid by retailers arrangements, is a uK social investment fund.
The Fund was officially launched on 3 April 2012 and the Group invested 12 million in the Fund in respect of Mastercard and VisA credit cards, debit cards and charge cards in the uK infringe competition law.
The OFT had placed the during 2012. investigation on hold pending the outcome of the Mastercard appeal to the General court.
The ultimate impact of the investigations and any regulatory developments on the Group can only be known at the conclusion of these Funding for Lending investigations and any relevant appeal proceedings and once regulatory proposals are more certain.
in August 2012 the Group announced its support for the uK Governments Funding for lending scheme and confirmed its intention to participate in the scheme.
The Funding for lending scheme represents a further source of cost effective secured term funding available to the Group.
The initiative supports a broad range of uK based customers, providing householders with more affordable housing finance and interbank offered rate setting investigations businesses with cheaper finance to invest and grow.
The Group drew down 3.0 billion during 2012.
A number of government agencies in the uK, us and elsewhere, including the uK Financial services Authority, the us commodity Futures Trading commission, the us securities and Exchange commission, the us department of Justice and a number of state Attorneys General, Central bank facilities as well as the European commission, are conducting investigations into submissions made by panel members to the bodies that set various in the ordinary course of business, the Group may from time to time access market-wide facilities provided by central banks.
interbank offered rates including the BBA london interbank Offered Rates liBOR and the European Banking Federations Euribor.
certain Group companies were at the relevant times and remain members of various panels whose members make submissions to these bodies Other government-related entities including the BBA liBOR panels.
no Group company is or was a member of the Euribor panel.
certain Group companies have received Other than the transactions referred to above, there were no other significant transactions with the uK Government and uK subpoenas and requests for information from certain government agencies and the Group is co-operating with their investigations.
in addition  entities including uK  banks during the period that were not made in the ordinary course of certain Group companies, together with other panel banks, have been named as defendants in private lawsuits, including purported class business or that were unusual in their nature or conditions.
action suits in the us with regard to the setting of liBOR.
it is currently not possible to predict the scope and ultimate outcome of the various regulatory investigations or private lawsuits, including the timing and scale of the potential impact of any investigations and private lawsuits on Other related party transactions the Group.
Pension funds The Group provides banking and some investment management services to certain of its pension funds.
At 31 december 2012, customer deposits of 129 million 2011: 63 million and investment and insurance contract liabilities of 1,213 million 2011: 928 million related to the Groups pension funds.
Open ended investment Companies OeiCs The Group manages 244 2011: 249 OEics, and of these 136 2011: 142 are consolidated.
The Group invested 1,563 million 2011: 1,283 million and redeemed 1,690 million 2011: 884 million in the unconsolidated OEics during the year and had investments, at fair value, of Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 300 301 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 52: Related party transactions continued 6,479 million 2011: 4,431 million at 31 december.
The Group earned fees of 325 million from the unconsolidated OEics during 2012 2011: 318 million.
Joint ventures and associates The Group provides both administration and processing services to its principal joint venture, sainsburys Bank plc.
The amounts receivable by the Group during the year were 32 million 2011: 21 million, of which 16 million was outstanding at 31 december 2012 2011: 10 million.
At 31 december 2012, sainsburys Bank plc also had balances with the Group that were included in loans and advances to banks of 1,229 million 2011: 1,173 million, deposits by banks of 1,268 million 2011: 780 million and trading liabilities of nil 2011: 340 million.
At 31 december 2012 there were loans and advances to customers of 3,424 million 2011: 5,185 million outstanding and balances within customer deposits of 45 million 2011: 88 million relating to other joint ventures and associates.
in addition to the above balances, the Group has a number of other associates held by its venture capital business that it accounts for at fair value through profit or loss.
At 31 december 2012, these companies had total assets of approximately 10,759 million 2011: 11,500 million, total liabilities of approximately 10,956 million 2011: 10,807 million and for the year ended 31 december 2012 had turnover of approximately 8,169 million 2011: 7,376 million and made a net loss of approximately 488 million 2011: net loss of 83 million.
in addition, the Group has provided 5,146 million 2011: 5,767 million of financing to these companies on which it received 208 million 2011: 106 million of interest income in the year.
note 53: Contingent liabilities and commitments interchange fees On 24 May 2012, the General court of the European union upheld the European commissions 2007 decision that an infringement of Eu competition law had arisen from arrangements whereby Mastercard issuers charged a uniform fallback interchange fee MiFs in respect of cross border transactions in relation to the use of a Mastercard or Maestro branded payment card.
in parallel: the European commission is also considering further action, including introducing legislation to regulate interchange fees, following its 2012 Green Paper Towards an integrated European market for cards, internet and mobile payments consultation: the European commission is pursuing an investigation with a view to deciding whether arrangements adopted by VisA for the levying of the MiF in respect of cross-border credit card payment transactions also infringe European union competition laws.
in this regard VisA reached an agreement which expires in 2014 with the European commission to reduce the level of interchange fee for cross-border debit card transactions to the interim levels agreed by Mastercard: and the Office of Fair Trading OFT may decide to renew its ongoing examination of whether the levels of interchange fees paid by retailers in respect of Mastercard and VisA credit cards, debit cards and charge cards in the uK infringe competition law.
The OFT had placed the investigation on hold pending the outcome of the Mastercard appeal to the General court.
The ultimate impact of the investigations and any regulatory developments on the Group can only be known at the conclusion of these investigations and any relevant appeal proceedings and once regulatory proposals are more certain.
interbank offered rate setting investigations A number of government agencies in the uK, us and elsewhere, including the uK Financial services Authority, the us commodity Futures Trading commission, the us securities and Exchange commission, the us department of Justice and a number of state Attorneys General, as well as the European commission, are conducting investigations into submissions made by panel members to the bodies that set various interbank offered rates including the BBA london interbank Offered Rates liBOR and the European Banking Federations Euribor.
certain Group companies were at the relevant times and remain members of various panels whose members make submissions to these bodies including the BBA liBOR panels.
certain Group companies have received subpoenas and requests for information from certain government agencies and the Group is co-operating with their investigations.
in addition certain Group companies, together with other panel banks, have been named as defendants in private lawsuits, including purported class action suits in the us with regard to the setting of liBOR.
it is currently not possible to predict the scope and ultimate outcome of the various regulatory investigations or private lawsuits, including the timing and scale of the potential impact of any investigations and private lawsuits on the Group.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 302 303 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 53: Contingent liabilities and commitments continued Financial Services Compensation Scheme The Financial services compensation scheme Fscs is the uKs independent statutory compensation fund for customers of authorised financial services firms and pays compensation if a firm is unable to pay claims against it.
The Fscs is funded by levies on the industry and recoveries and borrowings where appropriate.
The levies raised comprise both management expenses levies and, where necessary, compensation levies on authorised firms.
Following the default of a number of deposit takers in 2008, the Fscs borrowed funds from HM Treasury to meet the compensation costs for customers of those firms.
The interest rate on the borrowings with HM Treasury, which total circa 20 billion, increased from 12 month liBOR plus 30 basis points to 12 month liBOR plus 100 basis points on 1 April 2012.
Each deposit-taking institution contributes towards the Fscs levies in proportion to their share of total protected deposits on 31 december of the year preceding the scheme year, which runs from 1 April to 31 March.
in determining an appropriate accrual in respect of the management expenses levy, certain assumptions have been made including the proportion of total protected deposits held by the Group, the level and timing of repayments to be made by the Fscs to HM Treasury and the interest rate to be charged by HM Treasury.
For the year ended 31 december 2012, the Group has charged 87 million 2011: 179 million: 2010: 46 million to the income statement in respect of the management expenses levy.
The substantial majority of the principal balance of the 20 billion loan between the Fscs and HM Treasury will be repaid from funds the Fscs receives from asset sales, surplus cash flow or other recoveries in relation to the assets of the firms that defaulted.
in March 2012, the Fscs confirmed that it expects a shortfall of approximately 802 million and that it expects to recover that amount by raising compensation levies on all deposit-taking participants over a three year period.
in addition to the management expenses levy detailed above, the Group has also charged 88 million 2011: nil: 2010: nil to the income statement in respect of compensation levies.
The amount of future compensation levies payable by the Group depends on a number of factors including participation in the market at 31 december, the level of protected deposits and the population of deposit-taking participants.
FSA investigation into Bank of Scotland and report on HBOS in 2009, the FsA commenced a supervisory review into HBOs.
The supervisory review was superseded when the FsA commenced an enforcement investigation into Bank of scotland plc in relation to its corporate division between 2006 and 2008.
These proceedings have now concluded.
The FsA published its Final notice on 9 March 2012. no financial penalty was imposed on the Group or Bank of scotland plc.
The FsA has committed to producing a public interest report on HBOs.
The FsA has indicated that the report is expected to be published in the summer.
Shareholder complaints in november 2011 the Group and two former members of the Groups Board of directors were named as defendants in a purported securities class action filed in the united states district court for the southern district of new York.
The complaint asserted claims under the securities Exchange Act of 1934 in connection with alleged material omissions from statements made in 2008 in connection with the acquisition of HBOs.
in October 2012 the court dismissed the complaint.
An appeal against this decision has been filed.
The Group continues to consider that the allegations are without merit.
Other legal actions and regulatory matters in addition, during the ordinary course of business the Group is subject to other threatened and actual legal proceedings which may include class action lawsuits brought on behalf of customers, shareholders or other third parties, regulatory investigations, regulatory challenges and enforcement actions, both in the uK and overseas.
All such material matters are periodically reassessed, with the assistance of external professional advisers where appropriate, to determine the likelihood of the Group incurring a liability.
in those instances where it is concluded that it is more likely than not that a payment will be made, a provision is established to managements best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation at the relevant balance sheet date.
in some cases it will not be possible to form a view, either because the facts are unclear or because further time is needed properly to assess the merits of the case and no provisions are held against such matters.
However the Group does not currently expect the final outcome of any such case to have a material adverse effect on its financial position, operations or cash flows.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 302 303 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 53: Contingent liabilities and commitments continued 2012 2011 m m Contingent liabilities Acceptances and endorsements 107 81 Other: Other items serving as direct credit substitutes 523 1,060 Performance bonds and other transaction-related contingencies 2,266 2,729 2,789 3,789 Total contingent liabilities 2,896 3,870 The contingent liabilities of the Group arise in the normal course of its banking business and it is not practicable to quantify their future financial effect.
2012 2011 m m Commitments documentary credits and other short-term trade-related transactions 11 105 Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 546 596 undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend: less than 1 year original maturity: Mortgage offers made 7,404 7,383 Other commitments 53,196 56,527 60,600 63,910 1 year or over original maturity 40,794 40,972 Total commitments 101,951 105,583 Of the amounts shown above in respect of undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend, 52,733 million 2011: 53,459 million was irrevocable.
Operating lease commitments Where a Group company is the lessee the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable premises operating leases are as follows: 2012 2011 m m not later than 1 year 310 348 later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 987 1,187 later than 5 years 1,332 1,489 Total operating lease commitments 2,629 3,024 Operating lease payments represent rental payable by the Group for certain of its properties.
some of these operating lease arrangements have renewal options and rent escalation clauses, although the effect of these is not material.
no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
Capital commitments Excluding commitments in respect of investment property note 27, capital expenditure contracted but not provided for at 31 december 2012 amounted to 279 million 2011: 296 million.
Of this amount, 276 million 2011: 292 million related to assets to be leased to customers under operating leases.
The Groups management is confident that future net revenues and funding will be sufficient to cover these commitments.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 304 305 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 54: Financial instruments 1 Measurement basis of financial assets and liabilities The accounting policies in note 2 describe how different classes of financial instruments are measured, and how income and expenses, including fair value gains and losses, are recognised.
The following table analyses the carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities by category and by balance sheet heading.
At fair value through profit or loss Derivatives designated Designated Held at as hedging Held for upon initial AvailableLoans and amortised insurance instruments trading recognition for-sale receivables cost contracts Total m m m m m m m m At 31 December 2012 Financial assets cash and balances at central banks 80,298 80,298 items in the course of collection from banks 1,256 1,256 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 23,345 130,645 153,990 derivative financial instruments 11,571 44,979 56,550 loans and receivables: loans and advances to banks 29,417 29,417 loans and advances to customers 517,225 517,225 debt securities 5,273 5,273 551,915 551,915 Available-for-sale financial assets 31,374 31,374 Total financial assets 11,571 68,324 130,645 31,374 551,915 81,554 875,383 Financial liabilities deposits from banks 38,405 38,405 customer deposits 426,912 426,912 items in course of transmission to banks 996 996 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 30,272 5,700 35,972 derivative financial instruments 6,598 42,067 48,665 notes in circulation 1,198 1,198 debt securities in issue 117,369 117,369 liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts 82,953 82,953 liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 54,372 54,372 unallocated surplus within insurance businesses 267 267 Financial guarantees 48 48 subordinated liabilities 34,092 34,092 Total financial liabilities 6,598 72,339 5,748 618,972 137,592 841,249 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 304 305 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 54: Financial instruments continued At fair value through profit or loss derivatives designated designated Held at as hedging Held for upon initial Availableloans and amortised insurance instruments trading recognition for-sale receivables cost contracts Total m m m m m m m m At 31 december 2011 Financial assets cash and balances at central banks 60,722 60,722 items in the course of collection from banks 1,408 1,408 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 18,056 121,454 139,510 derivative financial instruments 12,850 53,163 66,013 loans and receivables: loans and advances to banks 32,606 32,606 loans and advances to customers 565,638 565,638 debt securities 12,470 12,470 610,714 610,714 Available-for-sale financial assets 37,406 37,406 Held-to-maturity investments 8,098 8,098 Total financial assets 12,850 71,219 121,454 37,406 610,714 70,228 923,871 Financial liabilities deposits from banks 39,810 39,810 customer deposits 413,906 413,906 items in course of transmission to banks 844 844 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 19,616 5,339 24,955 derivative financial instruments 7,246 50,966 58,212 notes in circulation 1,145 1,145 debt securities in issue 185,059 185,059 liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts 78,991 78,991 liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 49,636 49,636 unallocated surplus within insurance businesses 300 300 Financial guarantees 49 49 subordinated liabilities 35,089 35,089 Total financial liabilities 7,246 70,582 5,388 675,853 128,927 887,996 2 Reclassification of financial assets during 2012 the Group has reviewed its holding of government securities classified as held-to-maturity.
since it is no longer the Groups intention to hold these to maturity, securities with a carrying amount of 10,811 million and a fair value of 11,979 million were reclassified as available-for-sale financial assets in december 2012.
The difference between the carrying amount and the fair value has been recognised in equity.
no financial assets were reclassified in 2011. in 2010, government securities with a fair value of 3,601 million were reclassified from available-for-sale financial assets to held-to-maturity investments reflecting the Groups then positive intent and ability to hold them until maturity.
in 2009, no financial assets were reclassified.
in 2008, in accordance with the amendment to iAs 39 that became applicable during that year, the Group reviewed the categorisation of its financial assets classified as held for trading and available-for-sale.
On the basis that there was no longer an active market for some of those assets, which are therefore more appropriately managed as loans, with effect from 1 July 2008, the Group transferred 2,993 million of assets previously classified as held for trading into loans and receivables.
With effect from 1 november 2008, the Group transferred 437 million of assets previously classified as available-for-sale financial assets into loans and receivables.
At the time of these transfers, the Group had the Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 306 307 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 54: Financial instruments continued intention and ability to hold them for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
As at the date of reclassification, the weighted average effective interest rate of the assets transferred was 6.3 per cent with the estimated recoverable cash flows of 3,524 million.
Carrying value and fair value of reclassified assets The table below sets out the carrying value and fair value of reclassified financial assets.
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Carrying Fair carrying Fair carrying Fair carrying Fair carrying Fair value value value value value value value value value value m m m m m m m m m m From held for trading to loans and receivables 11 9 67 56 750 727 1,833 1,822 2,883 2,926 From available-for-sale financial assets to loans and receivables 162 203 217 219 313 340 394 422 454 402 From available-for-sale financial assets to held-to-maturity investments 3,624 3,846 3,455 3,539 From held-to-maturity investments to available-for-sale financial assets 4,998 4,998 Total carrying value and fair value 5,171 5,210 3,908 4,121 4,518 4,606 2,227 2,244 3,337 3,328 during the year ended 31 december 2012, the carrying value of assets reclassified to loans and receivables decreased by 111 million due to sales and maturities of 137 million and foreign exchange and other movements of 4 million less accretion of discount of 30 million.
no financial assets have been reclassified in accordance with paragraphs 50B, 50d or 50E of iAs 39 since 2008: the following disclosures relate to those assets which were so reclassified in 2008. a Additional fair value gains losses that would have been recognised had the reclassifications not occurred The table below shows the additional gains losses that would have been recognised in the Groups income statement if the reclassifications had not occurred.
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m From held for trading to loans and receivables 1 3 34 208 347 The table below shows the additional gains losses that would have been recognised in other comprehensive income if the reclassifications had not occurred.
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m From available-for-sale financial assets to loans and receivables 24 68 69 161 108 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 306 307 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 54: Financial instruments continued b Actual amounts recognised in respect of reclassified assets After reclassification the reclassified financial assets contributed the following amounts to the Group income statement.
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m From held for trading to loans and receivables: net interest income 1 24 55 31 impairment losses 6 49 158 Total amounts recognised 1 18 6 127 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m From available-for-sale financial assets to loans and receivables: net interest income 1 2 1 34 3 impairment credit losses 5 8 2 56 23 Total amounts recognised 6 6 1 22 20 3 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities The following table summarises the carrying values of financial assets and liabilities presented on the Groups balance sheet.
The fair values presented in the table are at a specific date and may be significantly different from the amounts which will actually be paid or received on the maturity or settlement date.
2012 2011 Carrying value Fair value carrying value Fair value m m m m Financial assets cash and balances at central banks 80,298 80,298 60,722 60,722 items in the course of collection from banks 1,256 1,256 1,408 1,408 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 153,990 153,990 139,510 139,510 derivative financial instruments 56,550 56,550 66,013 66,013 loans and receivables: loans and advances to banks 29,417 29,406 32,606 32,554 loans and advances to customers 517,225 506,418 565,638 549,829 debt securities 5,273 5,402 12,470 10,953 Available-for-sale financial assets 31,374 31,374 37,406 37,406 Held-to-maturity investments 8,098 8,144 Financial liabilities deposits from banks 38,405 38,738 39,810 40,012 customer deposits 426,912 428,749 413,906 414,654 items in course of transmission to banks 996 996 844 844 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 35,972 35,972 24,955 24,955 derivative financial instruments 48,665 48,665 58,212 58,212 notes in circulation 1,198 1,198 1,145 1,145 debt securities in issue 117,369 122,963 185,059 183,113 liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 54,372 54,372 49,636 49,636 Financial guarantees 48 48 49 49 subordinated liabilities 34,092 36,382 35,089 27,838 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 308 309 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 54: Financial instruments continued valuation methodology Financial instruments include financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives.
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Wherever possible, fair values have been calculated using unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets for identical instruments held by the Group.
Where quoted market prices are not available, or are unreliable because of poor liquidity, fair values have been determined using valuation techniques which, to the extent possible, use market observable inputs, but in some cases use non-market observable inputs.
Valuation techniques used include discounted cash flow analysis and pricing models and, where appropriate, comparison to instruments with characteristics similar to those of the instruments held by the Group.
Fair value information is not provided for items that do not meet the definition of a financial instrument.
These items include intangible assets, such as the value of the Groups branch network, the long-term relationships with depositors and credit card relationships: premises and equipment: and shareholders equity.
These items are material and accordingly the Group believes that the fair value information presented does not represent the underlying value of the Group.
Fair value of financial instruments carried at amortised cost cash and balances at central banks and items in the course of collection from banks The fair value approximates carrying value due to their short-term nature.
loans and receivables The Group provides loans and advances to commercial, corporate and personal customers at both fixed and variable rates.
The carrying value of certain variable rate loans, loans relating to lease financing and impaired lending is assumed to be fair value.
For fixed rate lending, several different techniques are used to estimate fair value, as considered appropriate.
These techniques take account of expected credit losses and changes in interest rates and expected future cash flows in establishing fair value.
For commercial and personal customers, fair value is principally estimated by discounting anticipated cash flows including interest at contractual rates at market rates for similar loans offered by the Group and other financial institutions.
The fair value for corporate loans is estimated by discounting anticipated cash flows at a rate which reflects the effects of interest rate changes, adjusted for changes in the counterpartys credit risk.
certain loans secured on residential properties are made at a fixed rate for a limited period, typically two to five years, after which the loans revert to the relevant variable rate.
The fair value of such loans is estimated by reference to the market rates for similar loans of maturity equal to the remaining fixed interest rate period.
The fair values of asset-backed securities and secondary loans, which were previously within assets held for trading and were reclassified to loans and receivables, are determined predominantly from lead manager quotes and, where these are not available, by alternative techniques including reference to credit spreads on similar assets with the same obligor, market standard consensus pricing services, broker quotes and other research data.
Held-to-maturity investments The fair values of government securities are based on market prices whereas the carrying value is based on cost, the difference being interest rate driven.
in 2012, these assets were transferred to the available-for-sale portfolio and carried at fair value at 31 december 2012. deposits from banks and customer deposits The fair value of deposits repayable on demand is considered to be equal to their carrying value.
The fair value for all other deposits is estimated using discounted cash flows applying either market rates, where applicable, or current rates for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
The difference between fair value and carrying value is principally interest rate driven on fixed deposits.
items in course of transmission to banks The fair value approximates carrying value due to their short-term nature.
notes in circulation The fair value of notes in circulation which are payable on demand is considered to be equal to their carrying value.
debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities The fair value of short-term debt securities in issue is approximately equal to their carrying value.
Fair value for other debt securities and for subordinated liabilities is estimated using quoted market prices.
The difference between fair value and amortised cost is driven both by interest rates and the Groups credit rating.
valuation of financial instruments carried at fair value The valuations of financial instruments have been classified into three levels according to the quality and reliability of information used to determine the fair values.
level 1 portfolios level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Products classified as level 1 predominantly comprise equity shares, treasury bills and other government securities.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 308 309 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 54: Financial instruments continued level 2 portfolios level 2 valuations are those where quoted market prices are not available, for example where the instrument is traded in a market that is not considered to be active or valuation techniques are used to determine fair value and where these techniques use inputs that are based significantly on observable market data.
Examples of such financial instruments include most over-the-counter derivatives, financial institution issued securities, certificates of deposit and certain asset-backed securities.
level 3 portfolios level 3 portfolios are those where at least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments valuation is not based on observable market data.
such instruments would include the Groups venture capital and unlisted equity investments which are valued using various valuation techniques that require significant management judgement in determining appropriate assumptions, including earnings multiples and estimated future cash flows.
certain of the Groups asset-backed securities and derivatives, principally where there is no trading activity in such securities, are also classified as level 3. valuation control framework The key elements of the control framework for the valuation of financial instruments include model validation, product implementation review and independent price verification.
These functions are carried out by appropriately skilled risk and finance teams, independent of the business area responsible for the products.
Model validation covers both qualitative and quantitative elements relating to new models.
in respect of new products, a product implementation review is conducted preand post-trading.
Pre-trade testing ensures that the new model is integrated into the Groups systems and that the profit and loss and risk reporting are consistent throughout the trade life cycle.
Post-trade testing examines the explanatory power of the implemented model, actively monitoring model parameters and comparing in-house pricing to external sources.
independent price verification procedures cover financial instruments carried at fair value.
The frequency of the review is matched to the availability of independent data, monthly being the minimum.
Valuation differences in breach of established thresholds are escalated to senior management.
The results from independent pricing and valuation reserves are reviewed monthly by senior management.
Formal committees, consisting of senior risk, finance and business management, meet at least quarterly to discuss and approve valuations in more judgemental areas, in particular for unquoted equities, structured credit, over-the-counter options and the credit Valuation Adjustment cVA reserve.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 310 311 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 54: Financial instruments continued The table below provides an analysis of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group that are carried at fair value in the Groups consolidated balance sheet, grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Valuation hierarchy Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m At 31 December 2012 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss loans and advances to customers 13,632 13,632 loans and advances to banks 919 919 debt securities: Government securities 18,524 2,207 20,731 Other public sector securities 1,056 1,056 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 68 3,326 3,394 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 151 687 838 Other asset-backed securities 258 1,565 1,823 corporate and other debt securities 5,692 17,647 1,519 24,858 24,693 26,488 1,519 52,700 Equity shares 84,450 72 1,787 86,309 Treasury and other bills 430 430 Total trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 109,573 41,111 3,306 153,990 Available-for-sale financial assets debt securities: Government securities 25,555 25,555 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 42 146 188 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 1,524 1,524 Other asset-backed securities 687 73 760 corporate and other debt securities 22 1,826 1,848 25,619 4,183 73 29,875 Equity shares 21 99 408 528 Treasury and other bills 869 16 86 971 Total available-for-sale financial assets 26,509 4,298 567 31,374 derivative financial instruments 76 54,116 2,358 56,550 Total financial assets carried at fair value 136,158 99,525 6,231 241,914 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss debt securities 5,700 5,700 Trading liabilities: liabilities in respect of securities sold under repurchase agreements 24,553 24,553 short positions in securities 1,850 350 2,200 Other 15 3,504 3,519 1,865 28,407 30,272 Total trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 1,865 34,107 35,972 derivative financial instruments 36 48,086 543 48,665 Financial guarantees 48 48 Total financial liabilities carried at fair value 1,901 82,193 591 84,685 There were no significant transfers between level 1 and level 2 during the year.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 310 311 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 54: Financial instruments continued level 1 level 2 level 3 Total m m m m At 31 december 2011 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss loans and advances to customers 9,766 9,766 loans and advances to banks 1,355 1,355 debt securities: Government securities 21,326 2,041 23,367 Other public sector securities 375 808 1,183 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 3,248 3,248 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 187 524 711 Other asset-backed securities 178 1,605 203 1,986 corporate and other debt securities 5,098 15,337 1,423 21,858 27,164 23,563 1,626 52,353 Equity shares 74,381 41 1,315 75,737 Treasury and other bills 299 299 Total trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 101,844 34,725 2,941 139,510 Available-for-sale financial assets debt securities: Government securities 25,143 93 25,236 Other public sector securities 27 27 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 323 43 366 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 1,803 1,803 Other asset-backed securities 807 257 1,064 corporate and other debt securities 41 5,192 12 5,245 25,534 7,938 269 33,741 Equity shares 55 96 1,787 1,938 Treasury and other bills 972 755 1,727 Total available-for-sale financial assets 26,561 8,789 2,056 37,406 derivative financial instruments 204 63,160 2,649 66,013 Total financial assets carried at fair value 128,609 106,674 7,646 242,929 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss debt securities 5,339 5,339 Trading liabilities: liabilities in respect of securities sold under repurchase agreements 12,378 12,378 short positions in securities 3,168 533 3,701 Other 3,537 3,537 3,168 16,448 19,616 Total trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 3,168 21,787 24,955 derivative financial instruments 35 57,436 741 58,212 Financial guarantees 49 49 Total financial liabilities carried at fair value 3,203 79,223 790 83,216 Valuation methodology Asset-backed securities Where there is no trading activity in asset-backed securities, valuation models, consensus pricing information from third party pricing services and broker or lead manager quotes are used to determine an appropriate valuation.
Asset-backed securities are then classified as either level 2 or level 3 depending on whether there is more than one consistent independent source of data.
if there is a single, uncorroborated market source for a significant valuation input or where there are materially inconsistent levels then the security is reported as level 3.
Asset classes classified as level 3 mainly comprise certain collateralised loan obligations and collateralised debt obligations.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 312 313 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 54: Financial instruments continued Equity investments including venture capital unlisted equities and fund investments are accounted for as trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss or as availablefor-sale financial assets.
These investments are valued using different techniques as a result of the variety of investments across the portfolio in accordance with the Groups valuation policy and are calculated using international Private Equity and Venture capital Guidelines.
depending on the business sector and the circumstances of the investment, unlisted equity valuations are based on earnings multiples, net asset values or discounted cash flows.
A number of earnings multiples are used in valuing the portfolio including price earnings, earnings before interest and tax and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
The particular multiple selected being appropriate for the type of business being valued and is derived by reference to the current market-based multiple.
consideration is given to the risk attributes, growth prospects and financial gearing of comparable businesses when selecting an appropriate multiple.
discounted cash flow valuations use estimated future cash flows, usually based on management forecasts, with the application of appropriate exit yields or terminal multiples and discounted using rates appropriate to the specific investment, business sector or recent economic rates of return.
Recent transactions involving the sale of similar businesses may sometimes be used as a frame of reference in deriving an appropriate multiple.
For fund investments the most recent capital account value calculated by the fund manager is used as the basis for the valuation and adjusted, if necessary, to align valuation techniques with the Groups valuation policy.
Unquoted equities and property partnerships in the life funds Third party valuations are used to obtain the fair value of unquoted investments.
Management take account of any pertinent information, such as recent transactions and information received on particular investments, to adjust the third party valuations where necessary.
Derivatives Where the Groups derivative assets and liabilities are not traded on an exchange, they are valued using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow and options pricing models, as appropriate.
The types of derivatives classified as level 2 and the valuation techniques used include: interest rate swaps which are valued using discounted cash flow models: the most significant inputs into those models are interest rate yield curves which are developed from publicly quoted rates.
Foreign exchange derivatives that do not contain options which are priced using rates available from publicly quoted sources.
credit derivatives which are valued using standard models with observable inputs, except for the items classified as level 3, which are valued using publicly available yield and credit default swap cds curves.
less complex interest rate and foreign exchange option products which are valued using volatility surfaces developed from publicly available interest rate cap, interest rate swaption and other option volatilities: option volatility skew information is derived from a market standard consensus pricing service.
For more complex option products, the Group calibrates its models using observable at-the-money data: where necessary, the Group adjusts for out-of-the-money positions using a market standard consensus pricing service.
complex interest rate and foreign exchange products where there is significant dispersion of consensus pricing or where implied funding costs are material and unobservable are classified as level 3.
Where credit protection, usually in the form of credit default swaps, has been purchased or written on asset-backed securities, the security is referred to as a negative basis asset-backed security and the resulting derivative assets or liabilities have been classified as either level 2 or level 3 according to the classification of the underlying asset-backed security.
The Groups level 3 derivative assets include 1,421 million 2011: 1,172 million in respect of the value of the embedded equity conversion feature of the Enhanced capital notes issued in december 2009.
The embedded equity conversion feature is valued by comparing the market price of the Enhanced capital notes with the market price of similar bonds without the conversion feature.
The latter is calculated by discounting the expected Enhanced capital note cash flows in the absence of a conversion using prevailing market yields for similar capital securities without the conversion feature.
The market price of the Enhanced capital notes was calculated with reference to multiple broker quotes.
Movements in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in net trading income.
level 3 derivative assets also include nil 2011: 14 million in respect of credit default swaps written on level 3 negative basis asset-backed securities.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 312 313 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 54: Financial instruments continued Movements in level 3 portfolio The table below analyses movements in the level 3 financial assets portfolio.
Trading and other financial assets at fair value through AvailableDerivative Total financial profit or loss for-sale assets assets m m m m At 1 January 2011 2,836 2,646 1,986 7,468 Exchange and other adjustments 8 45 8 61 Gains recognised in the income statement 139 78 672 889 losses recognised in other comprehensive income 148 148 Purchases 518 343 861 sales 747 580 1,327 Transfers into the level 3 portfolio 331 146 47 524 Transfers out of the level 3 portfolio 128 384 48 560 At 31 december 2011 2,941 2,056 2,649 7,646 Exchange and other adjustments 10 60 12 38 Gains losses recognised in the income statement 166 356 335 525 losses recognised in other comprehensive income 58 58 Purchases 513 218 45 776 sales 570 1,358 13 1,941 Transfers into the level 3 portfolio 337 138 475 Transfers out of the level 3 portfolio 91 13 104 At 31 December 2012 3,306 567 2,358 6,231 Gains losses recognised in the income statement relating to those assets held at 31 december 2012 85 33 335 283 losses recognised in other comprehensive income relating to those assets held at 31 december 2012 24 24 Gains recognised in the income statement relating to those assets held at 31 december 2011 203 31 178 412 losses recognised in other comprehensive income relating to those assets held at 31 december 2011 132 132 The table below analyses movements in the level 3 financial liabilities portfolio.
Derivative Financial Total financial liabilities guarantees liabilities m m m At 1 January 2011 203 54 257 losses recognised in the income statement 585 5 590 Redemptions 10 10 Transfers into the level 3 portfolio 18 18 Transfers out of the level 3 portfolio 65 65 741 49 790 At 31 december 2011 Exchange and other adjustments 10 10 Gains recognised in the income statement 227 3 230 Additions 28 2 30 Redemptions 25 25 Transfers into the level 3 portfolio 16 16 At 31 December 2012 543 48 591 Gains recognised in the income statement relating to those liabilities held at 31 december 2012 223 3 226 losses recognised in the income statement relating to those liabilities held at 31 december 2011 93 5 98 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 314 315 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 54: Financial instruments continued Transfers out of the level 3 portfolio arise when inputs that could have a significant impact on the instruments valuation become market observable after previously having been non-market observable.
in the case of asset-backed securities this can arise if more than one consistent independent source of data becomes available.
conversely transfers into the portfolio arise when consistent sources of data cease to be available.
included within the gains losses recognised in the income statement are losses of 57 million 2011: gains of 314 million related to financial instruments that are held in the level 3 portfolio at the year end.
These amounts are included in other operating income.
included within the gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income are losses of 24 million 2011: losses of 132 million related to financial instruments that are held in the level 3 portfolio at the year end.
sensitivity of level 3 valuations At 31 December 2012 At 31 december 2011 effect of reasonably Effect of reasonably possible possible alternative assumptions alternative assumptions Carrying Favourable Unfavourable carrying Favourable unfavourable value changes changes value changes changes valuation basis technique Main assumptions m m m m m m Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Asset-backed lead manager use of single pricing 203 1 1 securities or broker quote source consensus pricing from market data provider Equity and venture Various valuation Earnings, net asset 2,081 80 59 1,823 56 59 capital investments techniques value and earnings multiples, forecast cash flows unlisted equities and 1,225 915 property partnerships in the life funds 3,306 2,941 Available-for-sale financial assets Asset-backed lead manager use of single pricing 73 257 1 1 securities or broker quote source consensus pricing from market data provider Equity and venture Various valuation Earnings, net asset 494 36 11 1,799 183 88 capital investments techniques value, underlying asset values, property prices, forecast cash flows 567 2,056 Derivative financial assets industry standard Prepayment rates, 2,358 134 69 2,649 134 20 model consensus probability of default, pricing from market loss given default and data provider yield curves.
Equity conversion feature spread Financial assets 6,231 7,646 Derivative financial liabilities industry standard Prepayment rates, 543 741 model consensus probability of default, pricing from market loss given default and data provider yield curves Financial guarantees 48 49 Financial liabilities 591 790 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 314 315 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 54: Financial instruments continued Asset-backed securities Reasonably possible alternative valuations have been calculated for asset-backed securities by using alternative pricing sources and calculating an absolute difference.
The pricing difference is defined as the absolute difference between the actual price used and the closest, alternative price available.
Derivative financial instruments i in respect of the embedded equity conversion feature of the Enhanced capital notes, the sensitivity was based on the absolute difference between the actual price of the Enhanced capital note and the closest, alternative broker quote available plus the impact of applying a 10 bps increase decrease in the market yield used to derive a market price for similar bonds without the conversion feature.
The effect of interdependency of the assumptions is not material to the effect of applying reasonably possible alternative assumptions to the valuations of derivative financial instruments.
ii in respect of credit default swaps written on level 3 negative basis asset-backed securities, reasonably possible alternative valuations have been calculated by flexing the spread between the underlying asset and the credit default swap, or adjusting market yields, by a reasonable amount.
The sensitivity is determined by applying a 60 bps increase decrease in the spread between the asset and the credit default swap.
Venture capital and equity investments Third party valuers have been used to determine the value of unlisted equities and property partnerships included in the Groups life insurance funds.
The valuation techniques used for unlisted equities and venture capital investments vary depending on the nature of the investment, as described in the valuation methodology section above.
Reasonably possible alternative valuations for these investments have been calculated by reference to the relevant approach taken as appropriate to the business sector and investment circumstances and as such the following inputs have been considered: for valuations derived from earnings multiples, consideration is given to the risk attributes, growth prospects and financial gearing of comparable businesses when selecting an appropriate multiple: the discount rates used in discounted cash flow valuations: and in line with international Private Equity and Venture capital Guidelines, the values of underlying investments in fund investments portfolios.
derivative valuation adjustments derivative financial instruments which are carried in the balance sheet at fair value are adjusted where appropriate to reflect credit risk, market liquidity and other risks.
i Uncollateralised derivative valuation adjustments, excluding monoline counterparties The following table summarises the movement on this valuation adjustment account during 2012 and 2011: 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 1,226 570 income statement credit charge 209 718 Transfers 120 62 At 31 December 897 1,226 Represented by: 2012 2011 m m credit Valuation Adjustment 928 1,425 debit Valuation Adjustment 174 493 Funding Valuation Adjustment 143 294 897 1,226 credit and debit Valuation Adjustments cVA and dVA are applied to the Groups over-the-counter derivative exposures with counterparties that are not subject to standard interbank collateral arrangements.
These exposures largely relate to the provision of risk management solutions for corporate customers within the commercial Banking division.
A cVA is taken where the Group has a positive future uncollateralised exposure asset.
A dVA is taken where the Group has a negative future uncollateralised exposure liability.
These adjustments reflect interest rates and expectations of counterparty creditworthiness and the Groups own credit spread respectively.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 316 317 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 54: Financial instruments continued The cVA is sensitive to: 4 Transfers of financial assets the current size of the mark-to-market position on the uncollateralised asset: A.
Transferred financial assets that continue to be recognised in full expectations of future market volatility of the underlying asset: and The Group enters into repurchase and securities lending transactions in the normal course of business that do not result in derecognition of expectations of counterparty creditworthiness.
in all cases, the transferee has the right to sell or repledge the assets concerned.
in circumstances where exposures to a counterparty become impaired, any associated derivative valuation adjustment is transferred and As set out in note 21, included within loans and receivables are loans securitised under the Groups securitisation programmes.
The Group assessed for specific loss alongside other non-derivative assets and liabilities that the counterparty may have with the Group.
retains all or a majority of the risks and rewards associated with these loans and they are retained on the Groups balance sheet.
Assets transferred into the Groups securitisation programmes are not available to be used by the Group during the term of those arrangements.
Market credit default swap cds spreads are used to develop the probability of default for quoted counterparties.
For unquoted The table below sets out the carrying values of the transferred assets and the associated liabilities.
For repurchase and securities lending counterparties, internal credit ratings and market sector cds curves and recovery rates are used.
The loss Given default lGd is based on transactions, the associated liabilities represent the Groups obligation to repurchase the transferred assets.
For securitisation programmes, market recovery rates and internal credit assessments.
the associated liabilities represent the external notes in issue note 36.
Except as otherwise noted below, none of the liabilities shown in the The combination of a one notch deterioration in the credit rating of derivative counterparties and a ten per cent increase in lGd increases table below have recourse only to the transferred assets.
current market value is used to estimate the projected exposure for products not supported by the model, which Carrying Carrying are principally complex interest rate options that are traded in very low volumes.
For these, the cVA is calculated on an add-on basis in total value of value of contributing 69 million of the overall cVA balance at 31 december 2012. transferred associated assets liabilities The dVA is sensitive to: At 31 December 2012 m m the current size of the mark-to-market position on the uncollateralised liability: Repurchase and securities lending transactions expectations of future market volatility of the underlying liability: and Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 10,612 620 the Groups own cds spread.
Available-for-sale financial assets 8,967 4,693 A one per cent rise in the cds spread would lead to an increase in the dVA of 113 million to 287 million.
loans and receivables: The risk exposures that are used for the cVA and dVA calculations are strongly influenced by interest rates.
due to the nature of the Groups loans and advances to customers 19,015 6,662 business the cVA dVA exposures tend to be on average the same way around such that the valuation adjustments fall when interest rates rise.
debt securities classified as loans and receivables 498 346 A one per cent rise in interest rates would lead to a 345 million fall in the overall valuation adjustment to 409 million.
The cVA model used by Securitisation programmes the Group does not assume any correlation between the level of interest rates and default rates.
loans and receivables: The Group has also recognised a Funding Valuation Adjustment to adjust for the net cost of funding certain uncollateralised derivative 1 2 loans and advances to customers 118,183 28,059 positions where the Group considers that this cost is included in market pricing.
This adjustment is calculated on the expected future exposure discounted at a suitable cost of funds.
A ten basis points increase in the cost of funds will increase the funding valuation adjustment by 1 includes us residential mortgage-backed securities and associated liabilities whose carrying values were 185 million and 221 million respectively: the associated liabilities have recourse only approximately 14 million.
to the securities transferred and, at 31 december 2012, the fair values of the securities and the associated liabilities were 244 million and 311 million respectively, a difference of 67 million.
2 Excludes securitisation notes held by the Group 58,732 million.
ii Uncollateralised derivative valuation adjustments monoline counterparties The Group has no significant derivative exposures remaining against monoline counterparties.
Transferred financial assets derecognised in their entirety with ongoing exposure The following information by type of ongoing exposure relates to assets and liabilities arising from contractual rights or obligations retained or iii Market liquidity obtained in connection with financial assets that have been derecognised in their entirety.
The Group includes mid to bid-offer valuation adjustments against the expected cost of closing out the net market risk in the Groups trading Carrying amount of ongoing positions within a timeframe that is consistent with historical trading activity and spreads that the trading desks have accessed historically exposure in balance sheet during the ordinary course of business in normal market conditions.
At fair value through profit At 31 december 2012, the Groups derivative trading business held mid to bid-offer valuation adjustments of 103 million 2011: 85 million.
or loss Fair value of Maximum Loans and Designated upon ongoing exposure to iv Libor Overnight Index Swap basis receivables initial recognition exposure loss The Groups derivative trading business applies 74 million 31 december 2011: 74 million of valuation adjustments against the changing At 31 December 2012 m m m m market approach to valuing derivatives that are subject to daily collateral margin, where standard market practice is to pay interest on an 1 debt securities 119 102 119 Overnight index swap basis rather than a libor rate.
2 Fund investments 70 70 100 no credit valuation adjustment is taken on collateralised swaps.
Total 119 70 172 219 Own credit adjustments 1 Amount represents the carrying amount of the asset.
The carrying amount of issued notes that are designated under the iAs 39 fair value option is adjusted to reflect the effect of changes in own 2 Amount represents the carrying amount of the asset plus undrawn commitments of 30 million.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
At 31 december 2012, the own credit adjustment arising from the fair valuation of 5,700 million 2011: 5,339 million of the Groups debt debt securities shown in the table above are notes held in non-controlled securitisation vehicles representing the Groups ongoing involvement in securities in issue designated at fair value through profit or loss resulted in a loss of 437 million 2011: gain of 194 million.
financial assets transferred into those securitisation vehicles in prior years.
The debt securities, which benefit from significant credit enhancement, are classified as available-for-sale financial assets and are managed on a similar basis to the Groups other non-traded asset-backed securities.
Fund investments shown in the table above are equity and debt interests in an investment fund representing the Groups ongoing involvement in financial assets transferred into the fund in a prior year.
The fund investments were designated at fair value through profit or loss and are managed on a similar basis to the Groups trading assets.
The Group has no obligation or option to repurchase any of the assets transferred.
Amounts recognised in the income statement in 2012 in respect of debt securities shown above, an amount of 2 million was recognised during the year 5 million cumulatively since derecognition within net interest income.
in respect of fund investments shown above, an amount of 3 million was recognised during the year 55 million cumulatively since derecognition within net trading income.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 316 317 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 54: Financial instruments continued 4 Transfers of financial assets A.
Transferred financial assets that continue to be recognised in full The Group enters into repurchase and securities lending transactions in the normal course of business that do not result in derecognition of the financial assets concerned.
As set out in note 21, included within loans and receivables are loans securitised under the Groups securitisation programmes.
The Group retains all or a majority of the risks and rewards associated with these loans and they are retained on the Groups balance sheet.
The table below sets out the carrying values of the transferred assets and the associated liabilities.
For repurchase and securities lending transactions, the associated liabilities represent the Groups obligation to repurchase the transferred assets.
For securitisation programmes, the associated liabilities represent the external notes in issue note 36.
Except as otherwise noted below, none of the liabilities shown in the table below have recourse only to the transferred assets.
Carrying Carrying value of value of transferred associated assets liabilities At 31 December 2012 m m Repurchase and securities lending transactions Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 10,612 620 Available-for-sale financial assets 8,967 4,693 loans and receivables: loans and advances to customers 19,015 6,662 debt securities classified as loans and receivables 498 346 Securitisation programmes loans and receivables: 1 2 loans and advances to customers 118,183 28,059 1 includes us residential mortgage-backed securities and associated liabilities whose carrying values were 185 million and 221 million respectively: the associated liabilities have recourse only to the securities transferred and, at 31 december 2012, the fair values of the securities and the associated liabilities were 244 million and 311 million respectively, a difference of 67 million.
Transferred financial assets derecognised in their entirety with ongoing exposure The following information by type of ongoing exposure relates to assets and liabilities arising from contractual rights or obligations retained or obtained in connection with financial assets that have been derecognised in their entirety.
Carrying amount of ongoing exposure in balance sheet At fair value through profit or loss Fair value of Maximum Loans and Designated upon ongoing exposure to receivables initial recognition exposure loss At 31 December 2012 m m m m 1 debt securities 119 102 119 2 Fund investments 70 70 100 Total 119 70 172 219 1 Amount represents the carrying amount of the asset.
2 Amount represents the carrying amount of the asset plus undrawn commitments of 30 million.
debt securities shown in the table above are notes held in non-controlled securitisation vehicles representing the Groups ongoing involvement in financial assets transferred into those securitisation vehicles in prior years.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 318 319 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 55: Financial risk management As a bancassurer, financial instruments are fundamental to the Groups activities and, as a consequence, the risks associated with financial instruments represent a significant component of the risks faced by the Group.
The primary risks affecting the Group through its use of financial instruments are: credit risk: market risk, which includes interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk: liquidity risk: capital risk: and insurance risk.
information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and capital can be found on pages 115 to 202.
The following additional disclosures, which provide quantitative information about the risks within financial instruments held or issued by the Group, should be read in conjunction with that earlier information.
Market risk The Group uses various market risk measures for risk reporting and setting risk appetite limits and triggers.
These measures include Value at Risk and stress scenarios.
interest rate risk in the Groups retail banking business interest rate risk arises from the different repricing characteristics of the assets and liabilities.
liabilities are either insensitive to interest rate movements, for example interest free or very low interest customer deposits, or are sensitive to interest rate changes but bear rates which may be varied at the Groups discretion and that for competitive reasons generally reflect changes in the Bank of Englands base rate.
There is a relatively small volume of deposits whose rate is contractually fixed for their term to maturity.
Many banking assets are sensitive to interest rate movements: there is a large volume of managed rate assets such as variable rate mortgages which may be considered as a natural offset to the interest rate risk arising from the managed rate liabilities.
However, a significant proportion of the Groups lending assets, for example many personal loans and mortgages, bear interest rates which are contractually fixed for periods of up to five years or longer.
The Group establishes two types of hedge accounting relationships for interest rate risk: fair value hedges and cash flow hedges.
The Group is exposed to fair value interest rate risk on its fixed rate customer loans, its fixed rate customer deposits and the majority of its subordinated debt, and to cash flow interest rate risk on its variable rate loans and deposits together with its floating rate subordinated debt.
The majority of the Groups hedge accounting relationships are fair value hedges where interest rate swaps are used to hedge the interest rate risk inherent in the fixed rate capital issuances.
At 31 december 2012 the aggregate notional principal of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges was 135,516 million 2011: 93,215 million with a net fair value asset of 4,246 million 2011: asset of 5,484 million note 18.
The gains on the hedging instruments were 572 million 2011: gains of 1,982 million.
The losses on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk were 560 million 2011: losses of 1,999 million.
in addition the Group has cash flow hedges which are primarily used to hedge the variability in the cost of funding within the wholesale business.
note 18 shows when the hedged cash flows are expected to occur and when they will affect income for designated cash flow hedges.
The notional principal of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges at 31 december 2012 was 86,190 million 2011: 152,314 million with a net fair value asset of 215 million 2011: liability of 358 million note 18. in 2012, ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement that arises from cash flow hedges was a gain of 6 million 2011: loss of 13 million.
Currency risk Foreign exchange exposures comprise those originating in treasury trading activities and structural foreign exchange exposures, which arise from investment in the Groups overseas operations.
The corporate and retail businesses incur foreign exchange risk in the course of providing services to their customers.
All non-structural foreign exchange exposures in the non-trading book are transferred to the trading area where they are monitored and controlled.
These risks reside in the authorised trading centres who are allocated exposure limits.
The limits are monitored daily by the local centres and reported to the market and liquidity risk function in london.
Associated VaR and the closing, average, maximum and minimum are disclosed on page 171.
Risk arises from the Groups investments in its overseas operations.
The Groups structural foreign currency exposure is represented by the net asset value of the foreign currency equity and subordinated debt investments in its subsidiaries and branches.
Gains or losses on structural foreign currency exposures are taken to reserves.
The Group hedges part of the currency translation risk of the net investment in certain foreign operations using currency borrowings.
At 31 december 2012 the aggregate principal of these currency borrowings was 2,489 million 2011: 2,245 million.
in 2012, an ineffectiveness loss of 1 million before and after tax 2011: ineffectiveness gain of 23 million before tax and 17 million after tax was recognised in the income statement arising from net investment hedges.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 318 319 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 55: Financial risk management continued The Groups main overseas operations are in the Americas, Asia, Australasia and Europe.
details of the Groups structural foreign currency exposures, after net investment hedges, are as follows: Functional currency of Group operations 2012 2011 m m Euro: Gross exposure 919 585 net investment hedge 842 848 77 263 us dollar: Gross exposure 316 341 net investment hedge 542 122 226 219 swiss franc: Gross exposure 6 15 net investment hedge 9 3 15 Australian dollar: Gross exposure 1,104 1,232 net investment hedge 1,077 1,226 27 6 Japanese yen: Gross exposure 19 20 net investment hedge 19 20 Other non-sterling 106 170 Total structural foreign currency exposures, after net investment hedges 19 167 Credit risk The Groups credit risk exposure arises in respect of the instruments below and predominantly in the united Kingdom, the European union, Australia and the united states.
credit risk appetite is set at Board level and is described and reported through a suite of metrics devised from a combination of accounting and credit portfolio performance measures, which include the use of various credit risk rating systems as inputs and measure the credit risk of loans and advances to customers and banks at a counterparty level using three components: i the probability of default by the counterparty on its contractual obligations: ii the current exposures to the counterparty and their likely future development, from which the Group derives the exposure at default: and iii the likely loss ratio on the defaulted obligations, the loss given default.
The Group uses a range of approaches to mitigate credit risk, including internal control policies, obtaining collateral, using master netting agreements and other credit risk transfers, such as asset sales and credit derivative based transactions.
Maximum credit exposure The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group in the event of other parties failing to perform their obligations is detailed below.
no account is taken of any collateral held and the maximum exposure to loss, which includes amounts held to cover unit-linked and With Profits funds liabilities, is considered to be the balance sheet carrying amount or, for non-derivative off-balance sheet transactions and financial guarantees, their contractual nominal amounts.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 320 321 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 55: Financial risk management continued 2012 2011 m m loans and receivables: 1 loans and advances to banks, net 29,417 32,606 1 loans and advances to customers, net 517,225 565,638 1 debt securities, net 5,273 12,470 2 deposit amounts available for offset 5,728 4,174 546,187 606,540 Available-for-sale financial assets excluding equity shares 30,846 35,468 Held-to-maturity investments 8,098 3 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss excluding equity shares : loans and advances 14,551 11,121 debt securities, treasury and other bills 53,130 52,652 67,681 63,773 derivative assets: derivative assets, before offsetting under master netting arrangements 56,550 66,013 2 Amounts available for offset under master netting arrangements 38,158 46,618 18,392 19,395 Assets arising from reinsurance contracts held 2,320 2,534 Financial guarantees 9,520 10,831 4 irrevocable loan commitments and other credit-related contingencies 55,629 57,329 Maximum credit risk exposure 730,575 803,968 Maximum credit risk exposure before offset items 774,461 854,760 1 Amounts shown net of related impairment allowances.
2 deposit amounts available for offset and amounts available for offset under master netting arrangements do not meet the criteria under iAs 32 to enable loans and advances and derivative assets respectively to be presented net of these balances in the financial statements.
3 includes assets within the Groups unit-linked funds for which credit risk is borne by the policyholders and assets within the Groups With-Profits funds for which credit risk is largely borne by the policyholders.
consequently, the Group has no significant exposure to credit risk for such assets which back related contract liabilities.
4 see note 53 contingent liabilities and commitments for further information.
Credit quality of assets loans and receivables The disclosures in the table below and those on pages 321 and 322 are produced under the management basis used for the Groups segmental reporting.
The Group believes that, for reporting periods immediately following a significant acquisition such as the acquisition of HBOs in 2009, this management basis, which includes the allowance for loan losses at the acquisition date on a gross basis, more fairly reflects the underlying provisioning status of the loans.
The remaining acquisition-related fair value adjustments in respect of this lending are therefore identified separately in this table.
The analysis of lending between retail and wholesale has been prepared based upon the type of exposure and not the business segment in which the exposure is recorded.
included within retail are exposures to personal customers and small businesses, whilst included within wholesale are exposures to corporate customers and other large institutions.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 320 321 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 55: Financial risk management continued loans and advances Loans and advances designated Loans and advances to customers Loans and at fair value advances Retail Retail through to banks mortgages other Wholesale Total profit or loss m m m m m m At 31 December 2012 neither past due nor impaired 29,386 319,613 41,223 117,613 478,449 14,551 Past due but not impaired 31 12,880 922 1,527 15,329 impaired no provision required 741 1,530 1,504 3,775 provision held 3 7,391 2,124 33,003 42,518 Gross 29,420 340,625 45,799 153,647 540,071 14,551 Allowance for impairment losses 3 2,845 1,326 17,601 21,772 Fair value adjustments 1,074 net balance sheet carrying value 29,417 517,225 14,551 At 31 december 2011 neither past due nor impaired 32,494 330,727 41,448 146,655 518,830 11,121 Past due but not impaired 15 12,742 1,093 2,509 16,344 impaired no provision required 6 1,364 1,604 3,544 6,512 provision held 105 6,701 2,940 44,116 53,757 Gross 32,620 351,534 47,085 196,824 595,443 11,121 Allowance for impairment losses 14 2,731 1,848 23,139 27,718 Fair value adjustments 2,087 net balance sheet carrying value 32,606 565,638 11,121 The criteria that the Group uses to determine that there is objective evidence of an impairment loss are disclosed in note 2 H. All impaired loans which exceed certain thresholds, principally within the Groups commercial Banking division, are individually assessed for impairment by reviewing expected future cash flows including those that could arise from the realisation of security.
included in loans and receivables are advances which are individually determined to be impaired with a gross amount before impairment allowances of 34,533 million 31 december 2011: 48,142 million.
The table below sets out the reconciliation of the allowance for impairment losses of 15,250 million 2011: 18,732 million shown in note 24 to the allowance for impairment losses on a management basis of 21,772 million 2011: 27,718 million shown above: 2012 2011 m m Allowance for impairment losses on loans and advances to customers 15,250 18,732 1 HBOs allowance at 16 January 2009 11,147 11,147 2 HBOs charge covered by fair value adjustments 11,306 10,474 Amounts subsequently written off 16,383 13,083 6,070 8,538 Foreign exchange and other movements 452 448 Allowance for impairment losses on loans and advances to customers on a management basis 21,772 27,718 1 comprises an allowance held at 31 december 2008 of 10,693 million and a charge for the period from 1 January 2009 to 16 January 2009 of 454 million.
2 This represents the element of the charge on loans and advances to customers in HBOss results that was included within the Groups fair value adjustments in respect of the acquisition of HBOs on 16 January 2009.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 322 323 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 55: Financial risk management continued loans and advances which are neither past due nor impaired Loans and advances designated Loans and advances to customers Loans and at fair value advances Retail Retail through to banks mortgages other Wholesale Total profit or loss m m m m m m At 31 December 2012 Good quality 28,833 313,372 30,924 60,510 14,514 satisfactory quality 174 4,532 8,579 33,477 28 lower quality 10 552 862 18,153 6 Below standard, but not impaired 369 1,157 858 5,473 3 Total loans and advances which are neither past due nor impaired 29,386 319,613 41,223 117,613 478,449 14,551 At 31 december 2011 Good quality 32,141 323,060 29,123 71,907 11,065 satisfactory quality 171 5,432 9,747 42,311 45 lower quality 9 970 1,127 24,676 11 Below standard, but not impaired 173 1,265 1,451 7,761 Total loans and advances which are neither past due nor impaired 32,494 330,727 41,448 146,655 518,830 11,121 The definitions of good quality, satisfactory quality, lower quality and below standard, but not impaired applying to retail and wholesale are not the same, reflecting the different characteristics of these exposures and the way they are managed internally, and consequently totals are not provided.
Wholesale lending has been classified using internal probability of default rating models mapped so that they are comparable to external credit ratings.
Good quality lending comprises the lower assessed default probabilities, with other classifications reflecting progressively higher default risk.
classifications of retail lending incorporate expected recovery levels for mortgages, as well as probabilities of default assessed using internal rating models.
Further information about the Groups internal probabilities of default rating models can be found on pages 132 and 133. loans and advances which are past due but not impaired Loans and advances designated Loans and advances to customers Loans and at fair value advances Retail Retail through to banks mortgages other Wholesale Total profit or loss m m m m m m At 31 December 2012 0-30 days 5,996 744 860 7,600 30-60 days 3 2,667 138 131 2,936 60-90 days 2 1,750 29 328 2,107 90-180 days 6 2,467 5 56 2,528 Over 180 days 20 6 152 158 Total loans and advances which are past due but not impaired 31 12,880 922 1,527 15,329 At 31 december 2011 0-30 days 1 5,989 868 1,163 8,020 30-60 days 9 2,618 195 481 3,294 60-90 days 4 1,833 25 260 2,118 90-180 days 2,302 4 159 2,465 Over 180 days 1 1 446 447 Total loans and advances which are past due but not impaired 15 12,742 1,093 2,509 16,344 A financial asset is past due if a counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 322 323 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 55: Financial risk management continued debt securities classified as loans and receivables An analysis by credit rating of the Groups debt securities classified as loans and receivables is provided below: Rated BB AAA AA A BBB or lower not rated Total m m m m m m m At 31 December 2012 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 637 1,109 877 745 368 191 3,927 Other asset-backed securities 541 57 199 107 245 1 1,150 1,178 1,166 1,076 852 613 192 5,077 corporate and other debt securities 150 252 402 Gross exposure 1,328 1,166 1,076 852 613 444 5,479 Allowance for impairment losses 206 Total debt securities classified as loans and receivables 5,273 At 31 december 2011 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 2,008 2,326 1,423 1,024 369 29 7,179 Other asset-backed securities 3,585 430 374 237 403 1 5,030 5,593 2,756 1,797 1,261 772 30 12,209 corporate and other debt securities 150 67 320 537 Gross exposure 5,743 2,756 1,864 1,261 772 350 12,746 Allowance for impairment losses 276 Total debt securities classified as loans and receivables 12,470 Available-for-sale financial assets excluding equity shares An analysis of the Groups available-for-sale financial assets is included in note 25.
The credit quality of the Groups available-for-sale financial assets excluding equity shares is set out below: Rated BB AAA AA A BBB or lower not rated Total m m m m m m m At 31 December 2012 debt securities: Government securities 18,227 7,328 25,555 Other public sector securities Bank and building society certificates of deposit 75 71 42 188 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 976 212 50 120 166 1,524 Other asset-backed securities 336 241 116 67 760 1,312 453 166 120 233 2,284 corporate and other debt securities 293 281 567 600 85 22 1,848 29,875 Total debt securities 19,832 8,137 804 762 318 22 Treasury bills and other bills 866 89 971 16 Total held as available-for-sale financial assets 20,698 8,137 820 851 318 22 30,846 At 31 december 2011 debt securities: Government securities 19,051 6,179 6 25,236 Other public sector securities 27 27 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 81 177 71 37 366 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 626 491 398 185 103 1,803 Other asset-backed securities 399 299 224 34 90 18 1,064 1,025 790 622 219 193 18 2,867 1,609 856 2,351 341 88 5,245 corporate and other debt securities Total debt securities 21,766 8,002 3,044 597 193 139 33,741 1,717 10 1,727 Treasury bills and other bills 23,483 8,002 3,054 597 193 139 35,468 Total held as available-for-sale financial assets Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 324 325 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 55: Financial risk management continued Held-to-maturity investments The Group no longer holds any held-to-maturity investments.
An analysis of the credit quality of the Groups held-to-maturity investments at 31 december 2011 is provided below: Rated BB AAA AA A BBB or lower not rated Total m m m m m m m Government securities 6,319 1,779 8,098 debt securities, treasury and other bills held at fair value through profit or loss An analysis of the Groups trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss is included in note 17.
The credit quality of the Groups debt securities, treasury and other bills held at fair value through profit or loss is set out below: Rated BB AAA AA A BBB or lower not rated Total m m m m m m m At 31 December 2012 Debt securities, treasury and other bills held at fair value through profit or loss Trading assets: Government securities 3,688 277 3,965 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 2,182 907 77 3,166 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 42 10 78 130 Other asset-backed securities 2 14 4 1 21 44 24 82 1 151 corporate and other debt securities 385 148 330 278 30 1 1,172 Total debt securities held as trading assets 4,117 2,631 1,319 356 30 1 8,454 Treasury bills and other bills 370 4 374 Total held as trading assets 4,487 2,635 1,319 356 30 1 8,828 Other assets held at fair value through profit or loss: Government securities 14,557 1,606 220 372 1 10 16,766 Other public sector securities 694 205 131 6 20 1,056 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 94 134 228 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 219 95 264 122 8 708 Other asset-backed securities 263 383 732 359 16 49 1,802 482 478 996 481 16 57 2,510 corporate and other debt securities 3,107 2,731 7,305 6,633 2,115 1,795 23,686 Total debt securities held at fair value through profit or loss 18,840 5,114 8,786 7,492 2,132 1,882 44,246 Treasury bills and other bills 56 56 Total other assets held at fair value through profit or loss 18,896 5,114 8,786 7,492 2,132 1,882 44,302 Total held at fair value through profit or loss 23,383 7,749 10,105 7,848 2,162 1,883 53,130 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 324 325 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 55: Financial risk management continued Rated BB AAA AA A BBB or lower not rated Total m m m m m m m At 31 december 2011 Debt securities, treasury and other bills held at fair value through profit or loss Trading assets: Government securities 1,994 6 2,000 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 1,147 1,574 142 2,863 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 63 34 1 1 99 Other asset-backed securities 19 151 52 222 82 185 53 1 321 corporate and other debt securities 304 141 312 489 151 179 1,576 Total debt securities held as trading assets 2,380 1,479 1,939 631 152 179 6,760 Treasury bills and other bills 224 75 299 Total held as trading assets 2,604 1,554 1,939 631 152 179 7,059 Other assets held at fair value through profit or loss: Government securities 17,667 1,027 950 642 644 437 21,367 Other public sector securities 908 170 35 59 11 1,183 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 330 55 385 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 194 45 255 116 2 612 Other asset-backed securities 320 198 794 383 53 16 1,764 514 243 1,049 499 53 18 2,376 corporate and other debt securities 3,415 2,111 6,197 5,195 1,199 2,165 20,282 Total other assets held at fair value through profit or loss 22,504 3,881 8,286 6,395 1,907 2,620 45,593 Total held at fair value through profit or loss 25,108 5,435 10,225 7,026 2,059 2,799 52,652 credit risk in respect of trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss held within the Groups unit-linked funds is borne by the policyholders and credit risk in respect of with-profits funds is largely borne by the policyholders.
consequently, the Group has no significant exposure to credit risk for such assets which back those contract liabilities.
derivative assets An analysis of derivative assets is given in note 18.
The Group reduces exposure to credit risk by using master netting agreements and by obtaining collateral in the form of cash or highly liquid securities.
in respect of the Groups maximum credit risk relating to derivative assets of 18,392 million 2011: 19,395 million, cash collateral of 5,429 million 2011: 5,269 million was held and a further 1,387 million was due from OEcd banks 2011: 7,875 million.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 326 327 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 55: Financial risk management continued Financial guarantees and irrevocable loan commitments Financial guarantees represent undertakings that the Group will meet a customers obligation to third parties if the customer fails to do so.
commitments to extend credit represent unused portions of authorisations to extend credit in the form of loans, guarantees or letters of credit.
The Group is theoretically exposed to loss in an amount equal to the total guarantees or unused commitments, however, the likely amount of loss is expected to be significantly less: most commitments to extend credit are contingent upon customers maintaining specific credit standards.
C. Collateral held as security for financial assets A general description of collateral held as security in respect of financial instruments is provided on pages 134 and 135.
The Group holds collateral against loans and receivables and irrevocable loan commitments: qualitative and, where appropriate, quantitative information is provided in respect of this collateral below.
collateral held as security for trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and for derivative assets is also shown below.
Loans and receivables The disclosures below are produced under the management basis used for the Groups segmental reporting.
The Group believes that, for reporting periods immediately following a significant acquisition, such as the acquisition of HBOs in 2009, this management basis, which includes the allowance for loan losses at the acquisition on a gross basis, more fairly reflects the underlying provisioning status of the loans.
The Group holds collateral in respect of loans and advances to banks and customers as set out below.
The Group does not hold collateral against debt securities, comprising asset-backed securities and corporate and other debt securities, which are classified as loans and receivables.
loans and advances to banks The Group may require collateral before entering into a credit commitment with another bank, depending on the type of financial product and the counterparty involved, and netting arrangements are obtained whenever possible and to the extent that such agreements are legally enforceable.
collateral is held as part of reverse repurchase or securities borrowing transactions.
There were reverse repurchase agreements which are accounted for as collateralised loans within loans and advances to banks with a carrying value of 662 million 2011: 508 million, against which the Group held collateral with a fair value of 662 million 2011: 511 million, all of which the Group is able to repledge.
These transactions were generally conducted under terms that are usual and customary for standard secured lending activities.
loans and advances to customers The Group holds collateral against loans and advances to customers in the form of mortgages over residential and commercial real estate, charges over business assets such as premises, inventory and accounts receivable, charges over financial instruments such as debt securities and equities, and guarantees received from third parties.
Retail lending Mortgages An analysis by loan-to-value ratio of the Groups residential mortgage lending is provided below.
The value of collateral used in determining the loan-to-value ratios has been estimated based upon the last actual valuation, adjusted to take into account subsequent movements in house prices, after making allowance for indexation error and dilapidations.
neither past due Past due but nor impaired not impaired impaired Gross m m m m At 31 December 2012 less than 70 per cent 131,277 3,283 1,470 136,030 70 per cent to 80 per cent 61,677 1,962 846 64,485 80 per cent to 90 per cent 52,651 2,314 1,114 56,079 90 per cent to 100 per cent 36,428 2,092 1,133 39,653 Greater than 100 per cent 37,580 3,229 3,569 44,378 Total 319,613 12,880 8,132 340,625 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 326 327 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 55: Financial risk management continued neither past due Past due but nor impaired not impaired impaired Gross m m m m At 31 december 2011 less than 70 per cent 137,224 3,203 1,420 141,847 70 per cent to 80 per cent 60,236 1,894 843 62,973 80 per cent to 90 per cent 53,113 2,250 1,103 56,466 90 per cent to 100 per cent 40,236 2,182 1,196 43,614 Greater than 100 per cent 39,918 3,213 3,503 46,634 Total 330,727 12,742 8,065 351,534 Other no collateral is held in respect of retail credit cards or overdrafts, or unsecured personal loans.
For non-mortgage retail lending to small businesses, collateral will often include second charges over residential property and the assignment of life cover.
The majority of non-mortgage retail lending is unsecured.
At 31 december 2012, impaired non-mortgage lending amounted to 2,328 million, net of an impairment allowance of 1,326 million 2011: 2,696 million, net of an impairment allowance of 1,848 million.
The fair value of the collateral held in respect of this lending was 48 million 2011: 43 million.
in determining the fair value of collateral, no specific amounts have been attributed to the costs of realisation and the value of collateral for each loan has been limited to the principal amount of the outstanding advance in order to eliminate the effects of any  and to provide a clearer representation of the Groups exposure.
unimpaired non-mortgage retail lending amounted to 42,145 million 2011: 42,541 million.
lending decisions are predominantly based on an obligors ability to repay from normal business operations rather than reliance on the disposal of any security provided.
collateral values are rigorously assessed at the time of loan origination and are thereafter monitored in accordance with business unit credit policy.
The Group credit risk disclosures for unimpaired non-mortgage retail lending report assets gross of collateral and therefore disclose the maximum loss exposure.
The Group believes that this approach is appropriate.
The value of collateral is reassessed if there is observable evidence of distress of the borrower.
unimpaired non-mortgage retail lending, including any associated collateral, is managed on a customerby-customer basis rather than a portfolio basis.
no aggregated collateral information for the entire unimpaired non-mortgage retail lending portfolio is provided to key management personnel.
Wholesale lending Reverse repurchase transactions There were reverse repurchase agreements which are accounted for as collateralised loans with a carrying value of 5,087 million 2011: 16,835 million, against which the Group held collateral with a fair value of 4,916 million 2011: 16,936 million, all of which the Group is able to repledge.
included in these amounts are collateral balances in the form of cash provided in respect of reverse repurchase agreements amounting to 2 million 2011: 34 million.
Impaired secured lending The value of collateral is re-evaluated and its legal soundness re-assessed if there is observable evidence of distress of the borrower: this evaluation is used to determine potential loss allowances and managements strategy to try to either repair the business or recover the debt.
At 31 december 2012, impaired secured wholesale lending amounted to 17,257 million, net of an impairment allowance of 15,193 million 2011: 23,913 million, net of an impairment allowance of 20,675 million.
The fair value of the collateral held in respect of impaired secured wholesale lending was 9,414 million 2011: 13,977 million.
in determining the fair value of collateral, no specific amounts have been attributed to the costs of realisation.
For the purposes of determining the total collateral held by the Group in respect of impaired secured wholesale lending, the value of collateral for each loan has been limited to the principal amount of the outstanding advance in order to eliminate the effects of any  and to provide a clearer representation of the Groups exposure.
impaired secured wholesale lending and associated collateral relates to lending to property companies and to customers in the financial, business and other services: transport, distribution and hotels: and construction industries.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 328 329 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 55: Financial risk management continued Unimpaired secured lending unimpaired secured wholesale lending amounted to 74,485 million 2011: 96,381 million.
Wholesale lending decisions are predominantly based on an obligors ability to repay from normal business operations rather than reliance on the disposal of any security provided.
collateral values are rigorously assessed at the time of loan origination.
The types of collateral taken and the frequency with which collateral is required at origination is dependent upon the size and structure of the borrower.
For exposures to corporate customers and other large institutions, the Group will often require the collateral to include a first charge over land and buildings owned and occupied by the business, a mortgage debenture over the companys undertaking and one or more of its assets, and keyman insurance.
The Group maintains policies setting out acceptable collateral, maximum loan-to-value ratios and other criteria to be considered when reviewing a loan application.
The decision as to whether or not collateral is required will be based upon the nature of the transaction and the credit worthiness of the customer.
Other than for project finance, object finance and income producing real estate where charges over the subject assets are a basic requirement, the provision of collateral will not determine the outcome of a credit application.
The fundamental business proposition must evidence the ability of the business to generate funds from normal business sources to repay debt.
The extent to which collateral values are actively managed will depend on the credit quality and other circumstances of the obligor.
Although lending decisions are predominantly based on expected cash flows, any collateral provided may impact the pricing and other terms of a loan or facility granted: this will have a financial impact on the amount of net interest income recognised and on internal loss-given-default estimates that contribute to the determination of asset quality.
For unimpaired secured wholesale lending, the Group reports assets gross of collateral and therefore discloses the maximum loss exposure.
The Group believes that this approach is appropriate as collateral values at origination and during a period of good performance may not be representative of the value of collateral if the obligor enters a distressed state.
unimpaired secured wholesale lending is predominantly managed on a cash flow basis.
On occasion, it may include an assessment of underlying collateral, although, for impaired lending, this will not always involve assessing it on a fair value basis.
no aggregated collateral information for the entire unimpaired secured wholesale lending portfolio is provided to key management personnel.
Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss excluding equity shares in respect of trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, the fair value of collateral accepted under reverse repurchase transactions which are accounted for as collateralised loans that the Group is permitted by contract or custom to sell or repledge was 19,629 million 2011: 15,765 million.
Of this, 15,640 million was sold or repledged 2011: 3,740 million.
in addition, securities held as collateral in the form of stock borrowed amounted to 38,040 million 2011: 10,438 million.
Of this amount, 36,549 million 2011: 5,308 million had been resold or repledged as collateral for the Groups own transactions.
Derivative assets, after offsetting of amounts under master netting arrangements The Group reduces exposure to credit risk by using master netting agreements and by obtaining collateral in the form of cash or highly liquid securities.
in respect of the net derivative assets after offsetting of amounts under master netting arrangements of 18,392 million 2011: 19,395 million, cash collateral of 5,429 million 2011: 5,269 million was held.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 328 329 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 55: Financial risk management continued irrevocable loan commitments and other credit-related contingencies At 31 december 2012, the Group held irrevocable loan commitments and other credit-related contingencies of 55,629 million 2011: 57,329 million.
collateral is held as security, in the event that lending is drawn down, on 17,697 million 2011: 13,279 million of these balances.
lending decisions in respect of irrevocable loan commitments are based on the obligors ability to repay from normal business operations rather than reliance on the disposal of any security provided.
For wholesale commitments, it is the Groups practice to request collateral whose value is commensurate with the nature of the commitment.
For retail mortgage commitments, the majority are for mortgages with a loan- -to-value ratio of less than 100 per cent.
Aggregated collateral information covering the entire balance of irrevocable loan commitments over which security will be taken is not provided to key management personnel.
D. Collateral pledged as security Repo and stock lending transactions The Group pledges assets primarily for repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions which are generally conducted under terms that are usual and customary for standard securitised borrowing contracts.
The fair value of collateral pledged in respect of repurchase transactions, accounted for as secured borrowings, where the secured party is permitted by contract or custom to repledge was 48,077 million 2011: 39,679 million.
in addition, the following financial assets on the balance sheet have been pledged as collateral as part of securities lending transactions: Assets pledged 2012 2011 m m Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 10,000 3,102 loans and advances to customers 11,603 37,926 debt securities classified as loans and receivables 154 398 Available-for-sale financial assets 4,251 1,618 26,008 43,044 in addition to the assets detailed above, the Group also holds assets that are encumbered through the Groups asset-backed conduits and its securitisation and covered bond programmes.
Further details of these assets are provided in notes 21 and 22. e. Collateral repossessed 2012 2011 m m Residential property 936 968 Other 6 13 942 981 in respect of retail portfolios, the Group does not take physical possession of properties or other assets held as collateral and uses external agents to realise the value as soon as practicable, generally at auction, to settle indebtedness.
Any surplus funds are returned to the borrower or are otherwise dealt with in accordance with appropriate insolvency regulations.
in certain circumstances the Group takes physical possession of assets held as collateral against wholesale lending.
in such cases, the assets are carried on the Groups balance sheet and are classified according to the Groups accounting policies.
F. Treatment of customers experiencing financial stress The Group operates a number of schemes to assist borrowers who are experiencing financial stress.
The material elements of these schemes are described in the Risk Management report on pages 135 to 137 and further details relating to those cases where the Group has granted a concession, whether temporarily or permanently, are set out below.
Retail customers Forbearance activities The Group classifies the treatments offered to retail customers who have experienced financial difficulty into the following categories: Reduced contractual monthly payment Capital payment break These allow customers who are currently on a capital and interest repayment basis to temporarily transfer their loan onto an interest only basis in order to reduce their contractual monthly payment and help them through their period of financial difficulty.
during this period, the Group regularly reviews the customers situation and works with them to try to restore their position and return them to a full capital and interest repayment basis.
Prior to allowing the transfer, the Group undertakes a full financial review to confirm the customers financial difficulty and ability to maintain the revised level of payment.
The transfers are initially for six months and are limited to a maximum of two years during the lifetime of the mortgage.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 330 331 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 55: Financial risk management continued commensurate with the aim of this activity i. e. to manage customers through their temporary financial difficulty during the capital payment break arrears accrue based on the temporary interest only contractual monthly payment.
On expiry of the break, the customer is transferred back onto capital and interest repayment terms, with the outstanding balance recovered across the remaining term of the original loan.
Reduced contractual monthly payment Payment assistance break These agreements allow customers to suspend monthly payments for a limited period in order to address short-term financial difficulties.
This treatment is only available as a forbearance tool to customers who are less than one monthly payment in arrears and for a maximum period of three months during the term of the mortgage.
Arrears do not accrue during the break.
The contractual monthly payment is recalculated at the end of the break to take account of missed interest and, if appropriate, capital payments.
Financial distress Term extension These allow customers to permanently extend their mortgage term in order to reduce their contractual monthly payment.
Term extensions are rarely granted to customers in financial distress as the focus is on minimising the longer term impact on the customer.
The maximum term for the extension is aligned to the overall standard term limits for mortgages and, in general, the mortgage must be up to date.
The contractual monthly payment is reset when the term extension is implemented and any subsequent arrears will accrue based on this revised payment.
Financial distress Arrangement to pay customers who are experiencing short-term financial difficulties may reach agreement with the Group to pay an amount differing from their normal contractual monthly payment for a specified period of time.
This is agreed with the customer as being affordable and practical based on their individual circumstances.
Arrangements to pay less than the contractual monthly payment can be granted for up to three months after which the customers circumstances will be reviewed.
during the arrangement period, there is no clearing down of arrears such that, unless the customer is paying more than their contractual monthly payment, arrears balances will remain and the loan will continue to be reported as impaired or past due.
When customers come to the end of their arrangement period they will continue to be managed as a mainstream collections case, if still in arrears.
Repair Capitalisation of arrears Once customers have evidenced recovery from financial difficulty and re-established a strong payment record, this treatment allows the repair of the customers financial position through the permanent capitalisation of arrears.
customers must demonstrate that they can meet the contractual terms of their loan by making six consecutive contractual monthly payments and must give their permission for the capitalisation.
Arrears may not be capitalised more than twice in a five year period.
The contractual monthly payment is reset when the capitalisation is implemented to enable repayment over the original term.
Any subsequent arrears will accrue based on this revised payment.
customers receiving support from uK Government sponsored programmes The Group participates in a number of uK Government sponsored programmes designed to support households, which are described on page 136.
Where these schemes provide borrowers with a state benefit that is used to service the loan, there is no change in the reported status of the loan which is managed and reported in accordance with its original terms.
The Group assesses whether a loan benefitting from a uK Government sponsored programme is impaired using the same accounting policies and practices as it does for loans not benefitting from such a programme.
There is no direct impact on the impairment status of a loan benefitting from the Mortgage Rescue schemes, as these schemes involve the purchase, and eventual sale, of the property.
The loans included within the income support for Mortgage interest scheme and the Homeowner Mortgage support scheme may be impaired, in accordance with the normal definition of impairment.
The income support for Mortgage interest scheme remains the most successful of the Government backed schemes.
it is the longest-running, is the most widely known and provides both the customer and the Group with an assurance as to the maintenance of at least two years worth of interest payments.
The Group estimates that around 2.6 billion of its mortgage exposures are receiving this benefit.
This includes those who are also receiving other treatments for financial difficulty.
The Groups own uK retail secured schemes have also shown signs of success with 86 per cent of customers who have accepted capital payment breaks having maintained or improved their arrears position over the twelve months after transfer.
The Group believes that its mortgage payment arrangements continue to be an effective way to manage short-term affordability issues.
Treatments offered to irish retail secured customers in financial difficulty While the treatments offered to mortgage customers in financial difficulty in the uK and in ireland are broadly similar, the current period of economic distress in ireland and resultant regulatory code of conduct on Mortgage Arrears have resulted in an environment of ongoing assistance to customers, with greater flexibility within policy as to the duration and frequency of treatments.
care is taken to keep customers informed of their position and their circumstances are reviewed at least every six months.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 330 331 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 55: Financial risk management continued Forbearance granted The tables below set out the Groups retail forborne loans at 31 december 2012.
Secured retail At 31 december 2012, uK and irish retail secured loans and advances subject to forbearance were 1.8 per cent 2011: 1.9 per cent of total uK and irish retail secured loans of 330,485 million 2011: 339,121 million.
Further analysis of the forborne loan balances are set out below: impairment allowance as % of Total loans and advances Total forborne loans and loans and advances which are forborne advances which are impaired which are forborne 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 At 31 December m m m m % % Reduced contractual monthly payment 2,717 4,028 365 455 3.8 2.7 1,2 Financial distress 1,340 729 403 192 11.3 9.8 1 Repair 1,930 1,772 63 65 8.6 6.7 Total 5,987 6,529 831 712 7.0 4.6 1 Where the treatment involves a permanent change to the contractual basis of the customers account i. e. capitalisation of arrears and term extensions, those commenced during the year and remaining as customers at the year-end are shown.
2 The financial distress balance include arrangements to pay where the customer is paying less than the contractual payment and had such arrangements at the year end.
Collective impairment assessment of retail secured loans subject to forbearance loans which are forborne are grouped with other assets with similar risk characteristics and assessed collectively for impairment as described below.
The loans are not considered as impaired loans unless they meet the Groups definition of an impaired asset.
The Groups approach is to ensure that provisioning models, supported by management judgement, appropriately reflect the underlying loss risk of exposures.
The Group uses sophisticated behavioural scoring to assess customers credit risk.
The underlying behavioural scorecards consider many different characteristics of customer behaviour, both static and dynamic, from internal sources and also from credit bureaux data, including characteristics that may identify when a customer has been in arrears on products held with other firms.
Hence, these models take a range of potential indicators of customer financial distress into account.
The performance of such models is monitored and challenged on an ongoing basis, in line with the Groups model governance policies.
The models are also regularly recalibrated to reflect up to date customer behaviour and market conditions.
specifically, regular detailed analysis of modelled provision outputs is undertaken to demonstrate that the risk of forbearance or other similar activities is recognised, that the outcome period adequately captures the risk and that the underlying risk is appropriately reflected.
Where this is not the case, additional provisions are applied to capture the risk.
Unsecured retail At 31 december 2012, uK retail unsecured loans and advances subject to reduced contractual monthly payment, financial distress and repair treatment were 2.1 per cent 2011: 3.2 per cent of total uK retail unsecured loans and advances of 22,698 million 2011: 24,764 million.
Further analysis of the forborne loan balances are set out below: impairment allowance as % of Total loans and advances Total forborne loans and loans and advances which are forborne advances which are impaired which are forborne 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 At 31 December m m m m % % Reduced contractual monthly payment 257 450 239 431 50.1 53.9 1,2 Financial distress 90 183 84 108 57.9 50.3 1 Repair 125 155 33 39 4.2 4.8 Total 472 788 356 578 39.4 43.4 1 Where the treatment involves a permanent change to the contractual basis of the customers account i. e. capitalisation of arrears and term extensions, those commenced during the year and remaining as customers at the year-end are shown.
Collective impairment assessment of UK retail unsecured loans and advances subject to forbearance credit risk provisioning for the uK retail unsecured portfolio is undertaken on a purely collective basis.
The approach used is based on segmented cash flow models, divided into two primary streams for loans judged to be impaired and those that are not.
Accounts subject to repayment plans and collections refinance loans are among those considered to be impaired.
For exposures that are judged to be impaired, provisions are determined through modelling the expected cure rates, write-off propensity and cash flows with segments explicitly relating to repayment plans and refinance loans treatments.
Payments of less than the monthly contractual amount are reflected in reduced cash flow forecasts when calculating the impairment allowance for these accounts.
The outputs of the models are monitored and challenged on an ongoing basis.
The models are run monthly meaning that current market conditions and customer processes are reflected in the output.
Where the risks identified are not captured in the underlying models, appropriate additional provisions are made.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 332 333 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 55: Financial risk management continued Asset Finance UK Asset Finance operates a number of retail portfolios.
At 31 december 2012, Asset Finance retail loans and advances subject to forbearance were 9.6 per cent of total Asset Finance retail loans and advances of 4,644 million.
Further analysis of the forborne loan balances is set out below: impairment Total forborne allowance as a Total loans and loans and % of loans and advances which advances which advances which are forborne are impaired are forborne m m % At 31 December 2012 Reduced contractual monthly payment 328 301 58.0 Financial distress 112 102 24.8 Repair 7 2 1.6 Total 447 405 48.8 Commercial customers Forbearance activities it is Group policy that where forbearance has been granted for a commercial customer it must be managed either within the Groups good book watchlist classifications or within a Business support unit.
Whilst the Group treats all impaired assets as having been granted some form of forbearance in the past, granting forbearance does not necessarily mean that it is expected that future cash flows will fall, or that the asset is impaired.
depending on circumstances and within robust parameters and controls, the Group believes forbearance can help support the customer in the medium term.
Multiple types of forbearance concessions may occur and each case is treated depending on its own specific circumstances, as the Groups strategy and offer of forbearance is largely dependent on the individual situation.
Early identification, control and monitoring are key in order to support the customer and protect the Group.
Following a forbearance event, should the customer show a sustained period of stabilisation on their new terms and conditions or where the forbearance has reversed or cured, it would be expected that the customer would likely be returned to the mainstream good classification, at which point they may no longer be considered forborne.
such a decision can be made only by the independent Risk division.
The Group notes that forbearance alone is not necessarily an indicator of impairment but is a trigger point for it to review the customers credit profile.
The Groups forbearance actions for its commercial customers experiencing financial difficulties fall into the following categories: Amendments Covenant resets and breach of covenant waivers These amend a clause in a loan agreement or similar document or waive a breach of an existing clause.
The identification of a covenant breach will usually occur through the processing of audited or management accounts: contact from the customer during preparation of their compliance certificate: the receipt of customer information from which covenant compliance is calculated: or the receipt of a compliance certificate from a customer or agent.
A customer is not automatically classed as being in financial distress as a result of a covenant breach, but an actual or projected breach will prompt a review of the customers circumstances and their facilities.
Extensions Extension of facilities outside of agreed terms These allow customers to formally extend their facility term in order to reduce their contractual repayments or to improve their liquidity position.
Extensions Capital repayment holidays These allow customers who are currently on a capital and interest repayment basis to temporarily transfer their loan onto an interest-only basis in order to reduce their contractual repayments and help them through their period of financial difficulty.
Prior to allowing the capital repayment holiday, the Group undertakes a full financial review to confirm the customers financial difficulty and ability to maintain the revised level of repayment.
The aim of this activity is to manage customers through their temporary financial distress, and accordingly, on expiry of the break, the Group will look to transfer the customer back onto capital and interest repayment terms, with the outstanding balance recovered across the remaining term of the original loan.
Forgiveness Debt for equity swaps This type of forbearance involves the Group writing off debt, either partially or in whole, in exchange for equity in the company, usually in the form of ordinary shares, warrants, options or other equity instruments.
The primary goals of debt for equity swaps are to reduce the debt service capital and interest burden on the borrower, to encourage early repayment of outstanding loans to the Group, to protect the value of the residual debt provided, and to benefit from any future growth in value of the borrower.
debt for equity swaps are typically used as a last resort.
This type of forbearance will always give rise to an impairment.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 332 333 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 55: Financial risk management continued Forgiveness Partial debt write off An agreement to write off part of a contractual financial obligation in order to facilitate survival of a corporate entity on a going concern basis.
Partial debt write-offs are typically used as a last resort.
Forbearance granted The tables below set out the Groups forborne loans and advances to commercial customers at 31 december 2012.
Commercial Banking At 31 december 2012, commercial Banking loans and advances to customers subject to forbearance were 22.8 per cent of total commercial Banking loans of 144,770 million.
Forborne loans managed in the Good Book were 1.6 per cent of total loans and advances.
Further analysis of the forborne loan balances is set out below: impairment Total forborne allowance as a Total loans and loans and % of loans and advances which advances which advances which are forborne are impaired are forborne m m % At 31 December 2012 impaired 23,965 23,965 41.7 unimpaired Business support unit 6,734 unimpaired Good Book 2,293 Total forborne 32,992 23,965 30.3 Whilst the material portfolios have been reviewed for forbearance, some portfolios within commercial Banking have not been reviewed on the basis that the level is relatively immaterial or because the concept of forbearance is not relevant.
All impaired assets are considered forborne.
in Business support, 6,734 million of its unimpaired assets are also considered forborne as a result of proactive management of cases to help customers in financial difficulties.
Risk is re-assessed on a regular basis and impairments marked as necessary.
Ireland wholesale At 31 december 2012, all loans and advances in ireland wholesale whether impaired or unimpaired are treated as forborne and all assets are managed in a Business support unit.
Further analysis of these forborne loans are set out below: impairment Total forborne allowance as a Total loans and loans and % of loans and advances which advances which advances which are forborne are impaired are forborne m m % At 31 December 2012 impaired 10,967 10,967 68.0 unimpaired Business support unit 1,908 unimpaired Good Book Total 12,875 10,967 58.0 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 334 335 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 55: Financial risk management continued G. Credit market exposures The Groups credit market exposures primarily relate to asset-backed securities exposures held in the commercial Banking division and at the Groups centre.
An analysis of the carrying value of these exposures, which are classified as loans and receivables note 23, available-for-sale financial assets note 25 or trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss note 17 depending on the nature of the investment, is set out below.
net exposure net exposure Loans and at 31 December at 31 december receivables Available-for-sale Trading 2012 2011 m m m m m Mortgage-backed securities: us residential 3,312 3,312 4,063 non-us residential 286 1,411 130 1,827 3,125 commercial 253 113 366 1,788 3,851 1,524 130 5,505 8,976 collateralised debt obligations: collateralised loan obligations 272 23 295 1,162 Other 264 272 23 295 1,426 Federal family education loan programme student loans 119 135 254 3,526 Personal sector 368 11 379 511 Other asset-backed securities 392 591 21 1,004 656 Total uncovered asset-backed securities 5,002 2,284 151 7,437 15,095 1 negative basis 186 Total 5,002 2,284 151 7,437 15,281 direct 3,674 1,745 151 5,570 10,705 conduits note 22 1,328 539 1,867 4,576 Total 5,002 2,284 151 7,437 15,281 1 negative basis means bonds held with separate matching credit default swap protection.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 334 335 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 55: Financial risk management continued An analysis of these asset-backed securities by credit rating is provided below.
net Below exposure AAA AA A BBB BB B B m m m m m m m m Mortgage-backed securities: us residential mortgage-backed securities: Prime 645 124 207 129 123 39 16 7 Alt-A 2,667 513 856 533 508 162 65 30 sub-prime 3,312 637 1,063 662 631 201 81 37 non-us residential mortgage-backed securities 1,827 981 286 102 196 262 commercial mortgage-backed securities 366 23 241 87 15 5,505 1,641 1,349 1,005 914 478 81 37 collateralised loan obligations 295 56 80 114 16 29 Federal family education loan programme student loans 254 151 84 19 Personal sector 379 369 8 1 1 Other asset-backed securities 1,004 375 70 191 107 148 113 Total at 31 December 2012 7,437 2,592 1,591 1,329 1,021 643 224 37 Total at 31 december 2011 15,281 6,974 3,643 2,320 1,529 770 16 29 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 336 337 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 55: Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Group has insufficient financial resources to meet its commitments as they fall due, or can only secure them at excessive cost.
The Group carries out monthly stress testing of its liquidity position against a range of scenarios, including those prescribed by the FsA.
The Groups liquidity risk appetite is also calibrated against a number of stressed liquidity metrics.
The table below analyses assets and liabilities of the Group into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining contractual period at the balance sheet date: balances with no fixed maturity are included in the over 5 years category.
certain balances, included in the table below on the basis of their residual maturity, are repayable on demand upon payment of a penalty.
The Groups assets and liabilities may be repaid or otherwise mature earlier or later than implied by their contractual terms and readers are, therefore, advised to use caution when using this data to evaluate the Groups liquidity position.
in particular, amounts in respect of customer deposits are often contractually payable on demand or at short notice.
However, in practice, these deposits are not usually withdrawn on their contractual maturity.
The table below analyses financial instrument liabilities of the Group, excluding those arising from insurance and participating investment contracts, on an undiscounted future cash flow basis according to contractual maturity, into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date: balances with no fixed maturity are included in the over 5 years category.
The majority of the Groups financial guarantee contracts are callable on demand, were the guaranteed party to fail to meet its obligations.
it is, however, expected that most guarantees will expire unused.
The contractual nominal amounts of these guarantees totalled 9,520 million at 31 december 2012 2011: 10,831 million with 4,865 million expiring within one year: 1,302 million between one and three years: 1,729 million between three and five years: and 1,624 million over five years 2011: 4,989 million expiring within one year: 2,008 million between one and three years: 2,198 million between three and five years: and 1,636 million over five years.
The majority of the Groups non-participating investment contract liabilities are unit-linked.
These unit-linked products are invested in accordance with unit fund mandates.
clauses are included in policyholder contracts to permit the deferral of sales, where necessary, so that linked assets can be realised without being a forced seller.
The principal amount for undated subordinated liabilities with no redemption option is included within the over five years column: interest of approximately 79 million 2011: 187 million per annum which is payable in respect of those instruments for as long as they remain in issue is not included beyond five years.
Further information on the Groups liquidity exposures is provided on pages 177 to 184.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 338 339 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 55: Financial risk management continued liabilities arising from insurance and participating investment contracts are analysed on a behavioural basis, as permitted by iFRs 4, as follows: Up to 1-3 3-12 1-5 Over 5 1 month months months years years Total m m m m m m At 31 December 2012 989 1,451 5,198 20,426 54,889 82,953 At 31 december 2011 748 1,724 5,257 18,132 53,130 78,991 For insurance and participating investment contracts which are neither unit-linked nor in the Groups with-profit funds, in particular annuity liabilities, the aim is to invest in assets such that the cash flows on investments match those on the projected future liabilities.
The following tables set out the amounts and residual maturities of the Groups off balance sheet contingent liabilities and commitments.
Within 1-3 3-5 Over 5 1 year years years years Total m m m m m At 31 December 2012 Acceptances and endorsements 73 33 1 107 Other contingent liabilities 1,236 662 144 747 2,789 Total contingent liabilities 1,309 662 177 748 2,896 lending commitments 65,739 14,493 17,486 3,676 101,394 Other commitments 557 557 Total commitments 66,296 14,493 17,486 3,676 101,951 Total contingents and commitments 67,605 15,155 17,663 4,424 104,847 Within 1-3 3-5 Over 5 1 year years years years Total m m m m m At 31 december 2011 Acceptances and endorsements 81 81 Other contingent liabilities 1,514 1,092 426 757 3,789 Total contingent liabilities 1,595 1,092 426 757 3,870 lending commitments 71,216 13,999 17,380 2,287 104,882 Other commitments 701 701 Total commitments 71,917 13,999 17,380 2,287 105,583 Total contingents and commitments 73,512 15,091 17,806 3,044 109,453 Capital risk capital risk is defined as the risk of the Group having a sub-optimal amount or quality of capital or that capital is inefficiently deployed across the Group.
capital risk appetite is set by the Board and reported through various metrics that enable the Group to manage capital constraints and market expectations.
The Group chief Executive, assisted by the Group Asset and liability committee, regularly reviews performance against risk appetite.
A key metric is the Groups core tier 1 capital ratio which the Group currently aims to maintain prudently in excess of 10 per cent.
The Group maintains its own buffer to ensure that the regulatory minimum requirements and regulatory targets and buffers are met at all times.
Additionally an extensive series of stress analyses is undertaken during the year to determine the adequacy of the Groups capital resources against the FsA minimum requirements in severe economic conditions.
insurance risk insurance risk is the risk of reductions in earnings, capital and or value, through financial or reputational loss, due to fluctuations in the timing, frequency and severity of insured underwritten events and to fluctuations in the timing and amount of claim settlements.
This includes fluctuations in profits due to customer behaviour.
The Groups appetite for solvency and earnings in insurance entities is reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
insurance risks are measured using a variety of techniques including stress and scenario testing, and, where appropriate, stochastic modelling.
Ongoing monitoring is in place to track the progression of insurance risks.
This normally involves monitoring relevant experiences against expectations, as well as evaluating the effectiveness of controls put in place to manage insurance risk.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 338 339 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 56: Consolidated cash flow statement A Change in operating assets 2012 2011 2010 m m m change in loans and receivables 53,842 39,361 40,101 change in derivative financial instruments, trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2,003 5,867 7,378 change in other operating assets 3,506 1,131 863 Change in operating assets 48,333 44,097 31,860 B Change in operating liabilities 2012 2011 2010 m m m change in deposits from banks 1,325 10,480 32,162 change in customer deposits 13,392 20,283 13,249 change in debt securities in issue 66,947 43,893 5,655 change in derivative financial instruments, trading and other liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 1,521 14,249 160 change in investment contract liabilities 7,421 793 8,161 change in other operating liabilities 743 139 2,938 Change in operating liabilities 46,681 19,187 45,683 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 340 341 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 56: Consolidated cash flow statement continued C non-cash and other items 2012 2011 2010 m m m depreciation and amortisation 2,126 2,175 2,432 impairment of tangible fixed assets 65 202 Revaluation of investment properties 264 107 434 Allowance for loan losses 5,121 8,069 10,771 Write-off of allowance for loan losses 7,922 7,405 6,909 impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 37 80 106 change in insurance contract liabilities 3,929 2,081 4,021 customer goodwill payments provision 500 Payment protection insurance provision 3,575 3,200 German insurance business litigation provision 150 175 Other provision movements 379 294 49 net charge credit in respect of defined benefit schemes 68 199 455 1 impact of consolidation and deconsolidation of OEics 829 6,094 878 unwind of discount on impairment allowances 374 226 403 2 Foreign exchange impact on balance sheet 219 302 1,159 3 liability management gains within other income 59 599 423 interest expense on subordinated liabilities 2,783 2,155 3,619 loss on disposal of businesses 7 21 314 Other non-cash items 3,032 1,186 472 Total non-cash items 6,004 1,035 11,825 contributions to defined benefit schemes 675 838 653 Payments in respect of customer goodwill payments provision 497 Payments in respect of payment protection insurance provision 3,299 1,045 Other 15 6 1 Total other items 3,959 2,374 652 non-cash and other items 2,045 1,339 11,173 1 These OEics Open-ended investment companies are mutual funds which are consolidated if the Group manages the funds and also has a majority beneficial interest.
The population of OEics to be consolidated varies at each reporting date as external investors acquire and divest holdings in the various funds.
The consolidation of these funds is effected by the inclusion of the fund investments and a matching liability to the unitholders: and changes in funds consolidated represent a non-cash movement on the balance sheet.
2 When considering the movement on each line of the balance sheet, the impact of foreign exchange rate movements is removed in order to show the underlying cash impact.
3 A number of capital transactions entered into by the Group in 2010, 2011 and 2012 involved the exchange of existing securities for new issues and as a result there was no related cash flow.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 340 341 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 56: Consolidated cash flow statement continued D Analysis of cash and cash equivalents as shown in the balance sheet 2012 2011 2010 m m m cash and balances at central banks 80,298 60,722 38,115 1 less: mandatory reserve deposits 580 1,070 1,089 79,718 59,652 37,026 loans and advances to banks 29,417 32,606 30,272 less: amounts with a maturity of three months or more 8,077 6,369 4,998 21,340 26,237 25,274 Total cash and cash equivalents 101,058 85,889 62,300 1 Mandatory reserve deposits are held with local central banks in accordance with statutory requirements: these deposits are not available to finance the Groups day-to-day operations.
included within cash and cash equivalents at 31 december 2012 is 17,889 million 2011: 21,601 million: 2010: 14,694 million held within the Groups life funds, which is not immediately available for use in the business.
e Acquisition of group undertakings and businesses 2012 2011 2010 m m m net cash outflow arising from acquisitions of and additional investment in joint ventures in the year 11 10 65 Payments to former members of scottish Widows Fund and life Assurance society acquired during 2000 3 8 net cash outflow 11 13 73 F Disposal and closure of group undertakings and businesses 2012 2011 2010 m m m loans and advances to customers 15 Other net assets and liabilities 29 319 742 44 319 742 loss on sale of businesses 7 21 314 net cash inflow from disposals 37 298 428 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 342 343 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 nOTEs TO THE cOnsOlidATEd FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs note 57: Future accounting developments The following pronouncements may have a significant effect on the Groups financial statements but are not applicable for the year ending 31 december 2012 and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
save as disclosed, the full impact of these accounting changes is being assessed by the Group.
Pronouncement nature of change iASB effective date Amendments to iAs 1 Presentation Requires entities to group items presented in other comprehensive Annual periods beginning of Financial Statements income on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassified to profit or on or after 1 July 2012.
Presentation of Items of Other loss subsequently.
Comprehensive Income Amendments to iFRs 7 Financial Requires an entity to disclose information to enable users of its Annual and interim periods Instruments: Disclosures financial statements to evaluate the effect or potential effect of netting beginning on or after  Financial arrangements on the entitys balance sheet.
Assets and Financial Liabilities iFRs 10 Consolidated Financial supersedes iAs 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Annual periods beginning Statements and sic-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities and establishes the on or after 1 January 2013. principles for when the Group controls another entity and therefore is required to consolidate the other entity in the Groups financial statements.
The implementation of iFRs 10 will result in the Group consolidating certain entities that were previously not consolidated, and deconsolidating certain entities which were previously consolidated.
The effect of applying iFRs 10 in 2012 would have been to recognise an increase in total assets and total liabilities at 31 december 2012 of approximately 8.3 billion resulting in no change to shareholders equity.
There would have been no impact on the result for the year to 31 december 2012. iFRs 12 Disclosure of Interests in Requires an entity to disclose information that enables users of financial Annual periods beginning Other Entities statements to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, its on or after 1 January 2013. interests in other entities and the effects of those interests on its financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
iFRs 13 Fair Value Measurement defines fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair value and Annual and interim periods requires disclosures about fair value measurements.
it applies to iFRss beginning on or after that require or permit fair value measurements or disclosures about fair 1 January 2013. value measurements.
Amendments to iAs 19 Employee Prescribes the accounting and disclosure by employers for employee Annual periods beginning Benefits benefits.
The main change is that actuarial gains and losses on or after 1 January 2013. remeasurements in respect of defined benefit pension schemes are no longer permitted to be deferred using the corridor approach and must be recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
in addition, revised iAs 19 also replaces interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability asset.
Had the Group adopted these changes in 2012, the loss for the year to 31 december 2012 would have been approximately 40 million higher and other comprehensive income net of tax some 1.6 billion lower.
As at 31 december 2012, unrecognised actuarial losses of some 2.7 billion and deferred tax assets of 0.6 billion would have been recognised and shareholders equity would have been 2.1 billion lower.
Amendments to iAs 32 Financial inserts application guidance to address inconsistencies identified Annual periods beginning Instruments: Presentation in applying the offsetting criteria used in the standard.
some gross on or after 1 January 2014.
Offsetting Financial Assets and settlement systems may qualify for offsetting where they exhibit certain Financial Liabilities characteristics akin to net settlement.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements 204 342 343 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated financial statements 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 214 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 18 77 115 355 note 57: Future accounting developments continued Pronouncement nature of change iASB effective date 1,2 iFRs 9 Financial Instruments Replaces those parts of iAs 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition Annual periods beginning and Measurement relating to the classification, measurement and on or after 1 January 2015. derecognition of financial assets and liabilities.
iFRs 9 requires financial assets to be classified into two measurement categories, fair value and amortised cost, on the basis of the objectives of the entitys business model for managing its financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instruments and eliminates the available-for-sale financial asset and held-to-maturity investment categories in iAs 39.
The requirements for derecognition are broadly unchanged from iAs 39.
The standard also retains most of the iAs 39 requirements for financial liabilities except for those designated at fair value through profit or loss whereby that part of the fair value change attributable to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income.
note 57: Future accounting developments 1 As at 1 March 2013, this pronouncement is awaiting Eu endorsement.
2 iFRs 9 is the initial stage of the project to replace iAs 39.
Future stages are expected to result in amendments to iFRs 9 to deal with changes to the impairment of financial assets measured at amortised cost and hedge accounting, as well as a reconsideration of classification and measurement.
until all stages of the replacement project are complete, it is not possible to determine the overall impact on the financial statements of the replacement of iAs 39. note 58: Approval of financial statements The consolidated financial statements were approved by the directors of lloyds Banking Group plc on 1 March 2013.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information
