Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 364 365 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABBREViATiOns ABS Asset-Backed securities KPis Key Performance indicators ADRs American depositary Receipts LCR liquidity coverage Ratio BSU Business support unit LDC lloyds development capital CDO collateralised debt Obligation LiBOR london inter-Bank Offered Rate CDS credit default swap LP&i life, Pensions and investments CLO collateralised loan Obligation LTiP long-Term incentive Plan CMiG clerical Medical investment Group limited LTv loan-to-value CRA credit Reference Agency MiF Multilateral interchange Fee CRD iv capital Requirements directive iV nSFR net stable Funding Ratio CvA credit Valuation Adjustment OeiCs Open Ended investment companies DvA debit Valuation Adjustment OFT Office of Fair Trading eCns Enhanced capital notes Pei Performance Excellence index eei Employee Engagement index PFi Private Finance initiative eev European Embedded Value PPi Payment Protection insurance eP Economic Profit PPP Public Private Partnership ePS Earnings Per share PvnBP Present Value of new Business Premiums eRM Enterprise Risk Management RDR Retail distribution Review eU European union SAye save-As-You-Earn FSA Financial services Authority SMes small and Medium sized enterprises SPe special Purpose Entity FSCS Financial services compensation scheme SWiP scottish Widows investment Partnership HMRC Her Majestys Revenue & customs TSR Total shareholder Return iAS international Accounting standard UK united Kingdom of Great Britain and iASB international Accounting standards Board northern ireland iCG individual capital Guidance UKFi uK Financial investments limited iFRiC international Financial Reporting US united states of America interpretations committee vaR Value-at-Risk iFRS international Financial Reporting standards iSA individual savings Account Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Shareholder information 356 364 365 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Forward looking statements 358 Glossary 359 Abbreviations 364 Index to annual report 365 1 18 77 115 203 indEX TO AnnuAl REPORT Accounting Derivative financial instruments Accounting policies 215 Accounting policy 218 critical accounting estimates and judgements 226 notes to the consolidated financial statements 247 Future accounting developments 342Valuation 308 Approval of financial statements Directors consolidated 343 Attendance at board and committee meetings 91 Parent company 354Biographies 78 directors report 82 Auditors Emoluments 107 Report on the consolidated financial statements 204 interests 113, 114 Report on the parent company financial statements 344 Remuneration policy 100 Fees 241 service agreements 104 Available-for-sale financial assets statement of directors responsibilities 84 Accounting policies 217, 221 Dividends 11, 16, 290 notes to the consolidated financial statements 254 Valuation 308 Divisional results commercial Banking 55 Balance sheet insurance 63 consolidated 208, 209 Retail 52 Parent company 345 Wealth, Asset Finance and international 59 Business Model and Strategy 22 earnings per share 245 Capital adequacy employees capital ratios 189 diversity and inclusion 37 Cash flow statement colleagues 34 consolidated 213 Financial instruments notes to the consolidated financial statements 339 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities 307, 354 Parent company 347 Measurement basis of financial assets and liabilities 304, 353 Chairmans statement 10 Reclassification of financial assets 305 Charitable donations 83 Financial risk management Contingent liabilities and commitments 301 capital risk 187, 338 Credit market exposures 334 credit risk 132, 319, 354 currency risk 318, 353 Debt securities in issue consolidated 262 insurance risk 185, 338 interest rate risk 318, 353 Parent company 351 liquidity risk 177, 336, 354 Valuation 308 Market risk 170, 318 Delivering our Action Plan 24 Five year financial summary 76 Deposits customer deposits 261 Forward looking statements 358 deposits from banks 261 Glossary 359 Valuation 308 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 366 367 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 indEX TO AnnuAl REPORT Going concern insurance claims 239 Basis of preparation 214 insurance premium income 237 directors report 82 intangible assets Goodwill Accounting policy 216 Accounting policy 215 notes to the consolidated financial statements 259 notes to the consolidated financial statements 256 investment property Governance Accounting policy 221 compliance with the uK corporate Governance code 86 notes to the consolidated financial statements 255 Risk management 115 Key performance indicators Board committees 94 divisional overview and KPis 6 Group key performance indicators 4 Group chief executives review 14 Group executive Committee 80 Loans and advances loans and advances to banks 250 Held at fair value through profit or loss loans and advances to customers 251 Accounting policy 216 Valuation 308 notes to the consolidated financial statements 246, 262 Valuation 308 Marketplace trends Regulation 20 impairment The economy 19 Accounting policy 219 impact on our markets 20 critical accounting estimates and judgements 226 notes to the consolidated financial statements 242 net fee and commission income 236 income statement net interest income 235 consolidated 206 net trading income 236 information for shareholders Operating expenses 240 Analysis of shareholders 357 Other operating income 238 shareholder enquiries 356 Other financial information insurance businesses Banking net interest margin 75 Accounting policy 223 core and non-core business 68 Basis of determining regulatory capital 195 Volatility arising in insurance businesses 74 capital sensitivities 199 Pensions capital statement 195 Accounting policy 222 critical accounting estimates and judgements 227 critical accounting estimates and judgements 227 Financial information calculated on a realistic basis 195 directors pensions 102, 103, 108 liabilities arising from insurance contracts and notes to the consolidated financial statements 271 participating investment contracts 262 liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 270 Principal subsidiaries 351 life insurance sensitivity analysis 269 Presentation of information 3 Options and guarantees 199 Provisions unallocated surplus within insurance businesses 270 Accounting policy 225 Value of in-force business 256 notes to the consolidated financial statements 278 Volatility arising in insurance businesses 74 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Shareholder information 356 366 367 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Forward looking statements 358 Glossary 359 Abbreviations 364 Index to annual report 365 1 18 77 115 203 Related party transactions 298, 351 Statement of changes in equity consolidated 210 Relationships and responsibilities 28 Parent company 346 colleagues 34 Subordinated liabilities communities 38 customers 30 consolidated 280 Parent company 350 Risk management framework Valuation 308 capital risk 187 conduct risk 169 Summary of Group results 44 credit risk 132 Tangible fixed assets Exposures to Eurozone countries 158 Accounting policy 221 Financial reporting risk 201 notes to the consolidated financial statements 260 Governance risk 202 Taxation insurance risk 185 Accounting policy 222 liquidity and funding risk 177 critical accounting estimates and judgements 227 Market risk 170 notes to the consolidated financial statements 244, 276 Operational risk 174 value at Risk vaR 171 People risk 176 value of in-force business Principal risks and uncertainties 118 Accounting policy 224 Regulatory risk 186 notes to the consolidated financial statements 256 Risk governance 126 Risk management 115 volatility Risk overview 42 insurance 74 state funding and state aid 124 Policyholder interests 75 Risk-weighted assets 191 Securitisations and covered bonds 252 Segmental reporting central items 67 commercial Banking 55 Group Operations 67 insurance 63 Management basis segmental analysis 51 notes to the consolidated financial statements 229 Retail 52 Wealth, Asset Finance and international 59 Share-based payments Accounting policy 222 notes to the consolidated financial statements 290 Share capital and premium accounts 285, 287 Shareholder information 356 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Photography by George Brooks, Paul Eversley, Marcus Ginns, shutterstock.
com Printed in the uK by cPi colour, a certified carbonneutral printing company, using vegetable based inks and water based sealants: the printer and paper manufacturing mill are both certified with isO 140001 Environmental Management systems standards and both are Forest stewardship council certified.
When you have finished with this report, please dispose of it in your recycled waste stream.
Head office 25 Gresham street london Ec2V 7Hn Telephone 44 0 20 7626 1500 Registered office The Mound Edinburgh EH1 1YZ Registered in scotland no sc95000 internet www.
com ANNUAL REVIEW 2012 BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS INtRodUctIoN Contents Group performance 2 Business model and strategy 4 delivering our action plan 5 chairmans statement 6 Group chief Executives review 10 Group key performance indicators 14 divisional overview and KPIs 16 Relationships and responsibility 20 customers 22 colleagues 24 communities 26 Risk overview 28 Summary consolidated income statement 30 Summary consolidated balance sheet 31 Auditors statement and summary directors report 32 directors remuneration 33 Board of directors 34 Summary of Group results 36 Shareholder information 37 Lloyds Banking Group is a leading UK based financial services group providing a wide range of banking and financial services, primarily in the UK, to personal and corporate customers.
the main business activities are retail, commercial and corporate banking, general insurance, and life, pensions and investment provision.
the Group operates the UKs largest retail bank and has a large and diversified customer base.
Services are offered through a number of well recognised brands including Lloyds tSB, Halifax, Bank of Scotland, and Scottish Widows, and a range of distribution channels including the largest branch network in the UK.
Lloyds Banking Group is quoted on both the London Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange and is one of the largest companies within the FtSE 100.
View our report oNLINE our annual report and accounts and information relating to Lloyds Banking Group is available at: www.
com Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 1 INtRodUctIoN WE ARE cREAtING A SIMPLER, MoRE AGILE ANd RESPoNSIVE oRGANISAtIoN ANd ARE MAKING A BIG INVEStMENt IN PRodUctS ANd SERVIcES.
BY BEcoMING tHE BESt BANK FoR cUStoMERS WE BELIEVE WE cAN HELP BRItAIN PRoSPER ANd dELIVER StRoNG, StABLE ANd SUStAINABLE REtURNS FoR oUR SHAREHoLdERS.
Lloyds Banking Group 2 Annual Review 2012 GRoUP PERFoRMANcE the substantial progress we made in 2012 means that we are now ahead of our plan to transform the Group, and this was reflected in our stronger underlying financial performance in the year.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Group chief Executive Significantly improved Group performance: continue to work through legacy issues S ubstantial increase in Group underlying profit from 638 million to 2,607 million q F ull year Group net interest margin of 1.93 per cent, in line with our guidance at the 2011 full year results q costs further reduced by 5 per cent to 10.1 billion, in line with strategic review target two years ahead of plan: Simplification run rate savings q increased to 847 million credit quality continues to improve: 42 per cent impairment reduction to 5.7 billion, significantly ahead of original guidance of 7.2 billion: q impairment charge as a percentage of average advances improved to 1.02 per cent 2011: 1.62 per cent St atutory loss of 570 million primarily due to PPI provisions of 3,575 million including 1,500 million in the fourth quarter of 2012, and including q 3,207 million of gains from sales of government securities Confident in capital position: balance sheet further fide-risked: funding position transformed St rong underlying capital generation with core tier 1 capital ratio increased to 12.0 per cent: on a pro forma fully loaded cRd IV basis q the ratio is estimated at 8.1 per cent, including 0.3 per cent from expected cRd IV resolutions continued capital-accretive non-core asset reduction of 42.3 billion, benefitting capital ratios, and exceeding initial 2012 guidance by 17 billion.
q Non-core portfolio now less than 100 billion, at 98.4 billion deposit growth of 4 per cent: core loan to deposit ratio of 101 per cent, in line with long-term target of 100 per cent: Group loan to deposit ratio q of 121 per cent, achieving target two years in advance total wholesale funding reduced by 81.6 billion to 169.6 billion: maturity profile further improved with less than 30 per cent 2011: 45 per cent q of total wholesale funding with a maturity of less than one year Core business increasingly well positioned for growth and delivering strong returns above cost of equity core return on risk-weighted assets increased from 2.46 per cent to 2.56 per cent q U nderlying profit broadly stable at 6,154 million 2011: 6,196 million q core net interest margin of 2.32 per cent: stable throughout 2012 q 5 per cent reduction in core costs to 9,212 million: 34 per cent reduction in core impairments to 1,919 million q Further improving products and services to support customers and the UK economic recovery U Ks largest lender to first time buyers, helping over 55,000 customers, and exceeding 5 billion lending target for 2012 q S ME net lending growth of 4 per cent, against a shrinking market: exceeded 2012 SME net lending commitment of 13 billion and three year target q of assisting 300,000 new start-ups by the end of 2012 F irst participant in Funding for Lending Scheme, further enabling us to support the UK economy: 11 billion committed q I ncreased Net Promoter Score in all three brands and a further reduction in FSA reportable banking complaints excluding PPI to 1.1 per 1,000, q more than halving complaints in two years Further progress expected in 2013 and beyond: confident in meeting medium term guidance E xpect Group net interest margin of around 1.98 per cent for full year 2013 q targeting further reduction in total costs to around 9.8 billion in 2013 q Expect further improvement in portfolio quality, and a substantial reduction in the 2013 impairment charge, with a consequential increase in underlying q profit before tax targeting core loan growth in the second half of 2013 q E xpect a further reduction of non-core assets of at least 20 billion in 2013: on track to achieve target of a non-core asset portfolio q of 70 billion or less by the end of 2014, with more than 50 per cent in non-core retail assets Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 3 Consolidated income statement 2012 2011 m m Net interest income 10,335 12,210 other income 8,416 9,179 Insurance claims 365 343 Total underlying income, net of insurance claims 18,386 21,046 total costs 10,082 10,621 Impairment 5,697 9,787 Underlying profit 2,607 638 Effects of asset sales, volatile items and liability management 1,570 841 Fair value unwind 650 1,206 Management profit 4,827 2,685 Simplification, Ec mandated retail business disposal costs and integration costs 1,246 1,452 Payment protection insurance provision 3,575 3,200 other regulatory provisions 650 175 Past service pensions credit 250 Amortisation of purchased intangibles 482 562 Volatility arising in insurance businesses 306 838 Loss before tax statutory 570 3,542 taxation 773 828 Loss for the year 1,343 2,714 Loss per share 2.0 p 4.1 p Presentation of information In order to provide more meaningful and relevant comparatives, the results of the Group and divisions are presented on a combined businesses basis.
the key principles adopted in the preparation of the combined businesses basis of reporting are described below.
In order to reflect the impact of the acquisition of HBoS, the amortisation of purchased intangible assets has been excluded: and the unwind of acquisition-related fair value adjustments is shown as one line in the combined businesses income statement.
In order to better present business performance the effects of liability management, volatile items and asset sales are shown on a separate line in the combined businesses income statement and the following items, not related to acquisition accounting, have also been excluded: Simplification, Ec mandated retail business disposal costs and integration costs: payment protection insurance provision: other regulatory provisions: certain past service pension credits in respect of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes: amortisation of purchased intangibles: volatility arising in insurance businesses: and insurance gross up.
to enable a better understanding of the Groups core business trends and outlook, certain income statement, balance sheet and regulatory capital information is analysed between core and non-core portfolios.
the non-core portfolios consist of businesses which deliver below-hurdle returns, which are outside the Groups risk appetite or may be distressed, are subscale or have an unclear value proposition, or have a poor fit with the Groups customer strategy.
the Ec mandated retail business disposal Project Verde is included in core portfolios.
l a n o i t a n r e t n I d n a e c n a n i F t e s s A, h t l a e R W E P S O R P l i a t e N R I A Lloyds Banking Group 4 Annual Review 2012 BUSINESS ModEL ANd StRAtEGY UNLocKING tHE GRoUPS PotENtIAL our iconic and distinct brands, our broad multi channel distribution Customers are at the heart of the organisation network, our financial strength, conservative approach to risk management and by leveraging our strategic assets and capabilities and our high quality, committed colleagues are the foundation for effectively in all of our divisions we believe we providing customers with effective service.
through distinctive strengths, can help Britain prosper and deliver strong, stable and in particular superior customer insight, simpler tailored products and relationship focus we want to meet the financial needs of our customers, sustainable returns for shareholders.
whether that be through banking, insurance, investment, debt financing or risk management products, and help them succeed financially.
Our business model We also deliver value through a focus on increasing the efficiency Lloyds Banking Group is a leading financial services group with a simple, of operations and processes across the value chain, simplifying the lower risk, customer focused, UK retail and commercial banking organisation and reducing costs.
creating a lower risk, more agile, efficient business model.
organisation enables us to more effectively address customer needs We provide a range of banking and financial services, primarily in the UK, whilst reducing the cost base.
to personal, commercial and corporate customers and have designed our the UK financial services market remains one of the largest in the world business model around our distinctive assets and capabilities in serving and although our business model and strategy have been formulated customers effectively.
By really focusing on the needs of customers, and in the context of a cautious outlook for the UK economy it remains operating sustainably and responsibly, we believe we will help Britain appropriate for all stages of the economic cycle.
Whilst providing real prosper and create value for shareholders.
differentiation and positioning us well for future regulatory reform.
Ultimately as a simple, lower risk, customer focused UK retail and commercial bank, we can rebuild the trust of our customers and other stakeholders, help Britain prosper and deliver strong, stable and sustainable returns for shareholders.
Strong Superior customer customer relationships insight High-quality Financial committed strength people BECOMING STRONG, STABLE THE BEST conservative Multi-channel RETURNS FOR risk BANK FOR distribution SHAREHOLDERS management CUSTOMERS Iconic Simple, tailored and distinct products brands and services KEY ASSETS AND CAPABILITIES DIVISIONS T I R B G g n N i k n I a B P l a i L c r e E m m H o c e c n a r u s n I Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 5 We are reshaping our business portfolio to fit our assets, capabilities Our strategy and risk appetite.
We are strengthening the balance sheet through the the Groups strategy is built on being the best bank for customers, continued reduction of our non-core assets and reducing the risk in the and creating value by investing where we can make a real difference business through the application of a conservative approach to, and for customers.
customer leadership driven by superior customer prudent appetite for risk.
We are also reducing our international presence insight, simple tailored products, better service and relationship focus in order to focus on our core UK customers.
the customer is at the heart of everything we We believe we can unlock the potential in our franchise and deliver do, whether that be in our branches, our brands or our people.
this value to customers and shareholders by creating a simpler organisation.
commitment is supported by the Group values of putting customers first, opportunities exist to increase the efficiency of operations and processes keeping it simple and making a difference together.
and reduce costs whilst addressing changing customer needs and the We are creating a simpler, more agile, efficient and responsive customer external environment more effectively.
focused organisation with a real focus on operating sustainably and responsibly and helping Britain prosper.
We are reshaping and simplifying our customer focus remains the key driver for strategy and business the business and investing a portion of the savings realised from our decision making and substantial customer related investment is planned.
Simplification programme in customer related growth initiatives.
Whilst our strategy reflects our customers needs for product simplicity and focusing on core markets which offer strong returns and attractive growth transparency, access to credit, help in planning and saving for retirement, we are maintaining a prudent approach to risk and further strengthening demands for access through multiple channels, value for money products and the Groups balance sheet and liquidity position.
services and the importance of our staff in managing customer relationships.
our strategy is being delivered though a clear action plan focused on reshaping our business portfolio to fit our assets capabilities and risk appetite, strengthening the Groups balance sheet and liquidity position, simplifying the Group to improve agility and efficiency and investing to be the best bank for customers.
dELIVERING oUR ActIoN PLAN RESHAPE STRENGTHEN our business portfolio the Groups balance sheet to fit our assets, capabilities and liquidity position.
We continue to focus on attractive UK customer segments and their We continue to strengthen the Groups balance sheet ensuring the product needs to target a sustainable statutory return on equity of financial strength and security of the Group.
We are enhancing our capital between 12.5 and 14.5 per cent.
We will invest behind core areas which ratios and ensuring we exceed regulatory liquidity requirements, whilst offer strong returns and attractive growth: these are businesses which are maintaining a stable funding base and ensuring loan to deposit ratios capital and liquidity efficient, with sustainable competitive advantage, and remain close to our long term target.
which are central to our core customer strategy.
In reshaping our business, our focus will be on reducing non-core assets, improving our asset quality and reducing our international presence.
SIMPLIFY INVEST the Group to improve agility to be the best bank and efficiency.
our Simplification programme continues to focus on creating a more We intend to invest approximately 500 million annually by 2014, equivalent efficient, agile organisation, reducing costs in the business whilst to approximately one-third of the savings from our Simplification initiatives, improving the customer and colleague experience.
As announced last to grow our core income.
this will result in an incremental investment of year, we are now targeting 1.9 billion of cost savings in 2014 through a approximately 2 billion between 2011 and 2014. our investment is subject series of simplification initiatives.
Savings will be realised by focusing on: to disciplined tests, including financial returns, fit to our risk appetite operations and processes, channels and products, sourcing and creating and alignment with our strategy to be the best bank for customers.
investment will primarily be focused on becoming the best bank for personal customers, becoming the best partner for our business customers and enhancing our insurance proposition.
Lloyds Banking Group 6 Annual Review 2012 cHAIRMANS StAtEMENt Sir Winfried Bischoff Another year of progress for the Group against a still challenging economic and regulatory backdrop.
Overview Supporting the UK Economic Recovery 2012 was a momentous year for the United Kingdom.
We celebrated We play an active part in supporting the UK economy, to which our the diamond Jubilee and the London 2012 olympic and Paralympic success is inextricably linked, and in 2012 we confirmed our commitment Games.
Lloyds Banking Group was appointed a National Partner to the to helping Britain prosper through a number of initiatives.
these included Games in 2007, and in this role we helped fund emerging athletes, supply leading the way in participating in the Governments Funding for Lending volunteers and, crucially, support local businesses to enable them to take Scheme and growing our lending to small and medium-sized businesses full advantage of the available commercial opportunities.
We are proud against the backdrop of a contracting market.
We made strong of the significant role the Group played and of our part in creating a commitments to supporting sectors, such as manufacturing, that play lasting legacy.
a key role in economic recovery.
We also underlined our support to the UK housing market by continuing to be the UKs largest mortgage It was also a year of progress for the Group against a still challenging provider to first time buyers, helping over 55,000 customers take their economic and regulatory backdrop.
We continued to implement our first steps onto the property ladder.
strategy and are now ahead of our plan to transform the Group and create an efficient, lower-risk retail and commercial bank, focused on being the best bank for customers.
this was reflected in our share price, which rose Regulation 85 per cent in 2012, substantially outperforming the FtSE 350 banks index, the regulatory framework governing the UK banking industry continued which rose by 34 per cent, and making our shares the best performer to evolve in 2012, and whilst there was greater clarity, a considerable in the FtSE 100 over the year.
However, we need to continue to manage degree of uncertainty remains about the final outcome of the shape of a number of legacy issues which have had an adverse impact on our our industry.
We continue to implement regulatory changes alongside financial performance.
the current Basel 3 draft legislation and await its finalisation when we will be able fully to assess the changes required and their effect on the to put this into figures: Even though the operating environment in the UK Group.
the largest challenge for regulators remains to devise a regulatory remained challenging, we delivered consistent underlying performance framework that strikes the right balance between enhancing financial in our core business, demonstrating the strength of our strategy and stability, and encouraging innovation, competition and growth.
this resulted in an increase of our underlying profit before tax over that of 2011 from 638 million to 2,607 million.
the We have been a consistent supporter of the proposals to ring-fence statutory results, however, were impacted by a number of items including systemically important banking operations outlined by the Independent payment protection insurance, for which we took provisions totalling commission on Banking IcB, given their close alignment to our simple an additional 3,575 million in 2012, bringing the total amount provided UK focused retail and commercial banking model.
It is our intention, to 6,775 million since 2011.
Additionally we made a further provision subject to discussions with the regulator and the interests of our in respect of possible claims arising from SME derivatives amounting shareholders, to become a ring-fenced bank ahead of the 2019 deadline.
this will be a step-change for the UK banking industry that should reduce risk and ensure clear distinction between retail and commercial banks on the one hand, and investment banks on the other.
during 2012 we have made good progress regarding the Ec mandated disposal, Project Verde.
We have created Verde as a stand-alone bank, which from the summer 2013, will be operating as a separate business within the Group.
We are well-positioned to divest the business either through a sale or an Initial Public offering.
our discussions with the co-operative Group plc continue towards signing a binding sale and purchase agreement.
the formation of a new banking business, when completed, will be an effective challenger in the UKs retail banking market.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 7 We also announced timothy Ryan will retire from the Board in April 2013.
Dividends tim, too has made a substantial contribution to the Board over the last We strengthened our capital position during 2012 despite provisions and three years with his deep knowledge and understanding of the global charges for regulatory issues.
As we stated in 2011, we remain committed financial services sector and the wider regulatory impact on our business.
to restarting dividend payments as soon as we are able, and fully I want to express my thanks to our Non-Executive directors for their understand the difficulties that their absence is causing our shareholders.
they have spent substantial once regulatory requirements have been clearly defined and we have amounts of time far more than expected on our business over the prudently met them, and the financial position of the Group and market last four years and have done so without any increase in their fees since conditions permits, it is our intention to recommence dividend payments.
January 2008. these fees are now significantly below those of every other major banking institution.
We review fees annually and directors have Management and Staff decided once again to forego any increase in light of the fact that the the Board is committed to achieving long-term success for the Group Group in 2012 was still loss making at the statutory level.
and generating strong, stable and sustainable returns for shareholders, I am pleased that we achieved our commitment of 25 per cent female and this is underpinned by our high standards of corporate governance.
representation on the Board three years ahead of the 2015 timeline We have a strong executive management team, with deep experience mandated by the Lord davies report.
We believe that diversity in and broad understanding of our business challenges.
the teams aim is to background and experience helps to enhance the quality of deliberations be the best bank for customers, while acting as ambassadors in leading and decision making, and we will continue to promote it within the Board cultural change in the organisation.
In this way I feel confident we will as an example to our entire organisation.
deliver the value which our shareholders expect and deserve.
It is vital to ensure our colleagues are fully engaged in meeting our Community business objectives and in making further progress.
I thank all of them We believe that businesses should support the communities where they for their commitment.
delivering excellent service and simple customer operate.
For Lloyds Banking Group, this not only strengthens and grows focused products is at the heart of our strategy and we know we have our business, but also helps to rebuild trust and confidence in the banking to demonstrate this in all our actions.
By acting in our customers best sector and the positive role banks should play in society as a whole.
interests in every contact we have with them, we will become the great business we aspire to be and a source of pride for our employees.
this in Making a difference in communities by supporting education, turn will enable us to build sustainable returns for our shareholders.
employability and enterprise is central to the vision of the type of bank we want to be, a UK focused retail and commercial bank that exists to Directors serve the needs of its customers.
If we continue to focus on our Group values: putting customers first, keeping it simple and making a difference We have strengthened and further diversified the knowledge and together we will build a strong and profitable Group, with a culture which experience on our Board.
on 31 May 2012, two new Non-Executive reinforces these behavioural standards.
directors were appointed, carolyn Fairbairn and Lord Blackwell.
carolyns background in strategy, public policy and regulation complements the Following our strategic Review in 2011 we are committed to keeping our experience of Lord Blackwell in banking, consulting and life insurance.
charitable and community investment at 85 million for the period of the these appointments add to the existing combination of skills, and strategic plan.
this has meant thousands of colleagues have been able banking and life insurance perspectives, already present on our Board and to volunteer in local community activities through our staff giving days.
will contribute to the quality of decision making.
I am pleased that we raised over 3.6 million in charitable donations over the two years duration of our partnership with Save the children as our on 22 November 2012 we announced that Martin Scicluna, Audit charity of the Year.
We are already actively supporting our new charity committee chairman, will step down from the Board and leave the of the Year: the Alzheimers Society and Alzheimer Scotland, who have Group at the end of March 2013 following his appointment as chairman launched the Live Well Campaign, the first UK-wide dementia carers of RSA plc.
I thank him for the substantial contribution he has made as programme.
We also continue to run a number of charitable programmes Audit committee chairman and for his constructive views on all aspects using our business capabilities to support local communities, including of our business.
I am pleased Nicholas Luff has joined us and will be taking our recognised Lloyds Scholars programme, Money for Life our financial over as Audit committee chairman on 1 April 2013.
He brings substantial capability programme, and Business in the Community of which we have financial and audit committee experience to that role and we look forward been a supporter of for over 20 years.
this year we saw the culmination of our partnership with London 2012. the success of the olympic and Paralympic Games reflected the dedication of so many of our colleagues who had supported the run-up to the Games over the past five years.
the Games themselves continued the positive impact on our local communities, which is why we are delighted to be building on their legacy by developing our National School Sport Week and Local Heroes programmes.
3.6 million 25% Charity of the year Board representation during the two years of our partnership three years ahead of the mandated timeline with Save the children this sum was raised we have 25 per cent female representation.
to support the work of the charity.
Lloyds Banking Group 8 Annual Review 2012 cHAIRMANS StAtEMENt We have therefore focused on the need to manage aggregate variable pay and the overall size of the bonus pool.
the total bonus pool has been reduced by approximately 3 per cent to 365 million with the greater impact being applied to more senior staff and managed in the context of business and individual performance.
As we are primarily a retail and We remain committed commercial bank the awards under our Group bonus scheme remain a very small percentage of revenues at approximately 2 per cent, and to operating as a represent approximately 7 per cent of pre-bonus management profit privately owned Group, before tax, compared to 12.5 per cent in 2011. cash bonuses are capped which is profitable, at 2,000 with additional amounts paid in shares and subject to deferral self supporting and and performance adjustment.
the average value of bonuses paid per employee, will remain similar to 2011 at less than 3,900. dividend paying.
With regard to executive remuneration we feel it is appropriate that the fixed elements of directors pay should remain unchanged for a further year, recognising the continued economic climate and the need to evidence sustained returns for shareholders.
our 2012 bonus awards have been determined conservatively against robust financial performance Culture measures, and these awards will continue to be deferred into shares, until at least 2015.
We believe culture is values brought to life and is the consequential outgrowth of the strategy of a bank.
ours is to place the customer first.
In recognition of the Groups performance in 2012, the Remuneration Just as with strategy, the Board has a major role in shaping culture and committee has decided to make an annual performance award to in setting out principles and values that will drive long-term success.
Antnio Horta-osrio of 1,485,000 deferred in shares.
the deferral In addition we believe it is the duty of the Board to ensure that these period for this award will be extended to 5 years, and so will not be common objectives of management and Board are implemented released until 2018, and will be subject to additional conditions related to throughout the institution.
In banking there is a place for re-balancing the the share price at which the UK Government invested.
Antnio has led the priorities between shareholders and customers.
When customers come Group through a strong year that has put us ahead in the implementation first, shareholders will naturally be rewarded.
I believe this, in part, is a reason for the Group being the best performing stock in the FtSE 100 in 2012.
Within Lloyds Banking Group we recognise the value of diversity in our colleagues from a broad and representative mix of backgrounds and With respect to the Long-term Incentive Plan LtIP, as key targets for the experiences: different perspectives allow us to see and develop new 2010 LtIP were not met awards made under this plan will not be paid.
We promote internal initiatives to support diversity and means that LtIP awards have not been made for Executive directors in any inclusion within the Group and I was pleased to see our achievements also of the last four years.
the LtIP however remains a core part of our reward being recognised at the Business disability Forum.
We can only achieve strategy and we hope that the performance conditions attached to the our customer-focused strategy by building a sound reputation founded on plan which ensure alignment with the Groups strategic objectives and the highest standards of responsible behaviour.
In 2012 we launched the timeline of our medium term plan, will be met in 2013. codes of Responsibility to guide our decision making and help us put into practice our commitment to strive always to do the right thing.
Outlook We have a strong foundation on which to build our strategy to be the Remuneration best bank for customers to the benefit of our shareholders.
As I have the Remuneration committee undertook a further review of indicated in the past, the first task of the Board was to strengthen the remuneration and executive remuneration in 2011.
Anthony Watson, the Balance Sheet and to have a robust funding profile.
Now that the Balance chairman of the Remuneration committee, provides his usual review Sheet has been substantially strengthened and all of the liquidity support of our approach elsewhere in the report but due to the importance of received from the UK Government has been repaid, our focus is on remuneration to our stakeholders and the Group, as chairman, I also want increasing profitability and returns to shareholders.
over time, this should to provide some context to the decisions we have taken.
in turn allow the government the opportunity to commence the sale of its shareholding, which currently stands at approximately 39.2 per cent.
We We continue to believe that the remuneration policy at all levels, remain committed to operating as a wholly privately owned Group, which including for senior executives, needs to incentivise staff to deliver strong, is profitable, self supporting and dividend paying.
2012 has been a year sustainable growth whilst reflecting the work required to reshape and in which that possibility has been enhanced.
As for the immediate future transform the Group.
We have a strong conviction to align reward to the I believe that, with a reasonably positive development of the UK economy, longer term, sustainable success of our business and through this the we are well positioned for growth.
return of value to shareholders.
We are also mindful however both of the economic outlook and the views of our stakeholders.
I am encouraged by and grateful for the ongoing support of all of our shareholders as we implement our strategy.
We have many strengths, including iconic brands, strong heritages and great people.
consequently, we are well positioned to realise the Groups full potential for growth, help Britain prosper and deliver sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Sir Winfried Bischoff chairman Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 9 A COMMITMENT TO GOOD GOVERNANCE Governance Board oversight key topics the Board is committed to achieving long-term success for the Group, throughout 2012 the Board has continued to review the corporate and governance plays an integral part in ensuring consistency and rigour strategy, the operation of the business and our results within a in decision making to allow us to maximise shareholder value over time.
framework of prudent and effective controls, including the assessment this remains uppermost in our minds when applying the principles and management of risks.
this framework has allowed us to deal with described in relevant provisions relating to the combined code on key issues arising throughout the year, including: corporate governance published by the Financial Reporting council.
the Group chief Executives return to work in January 2012 following q the Board aims to exceed these requirements as we believe that good a short leave of absence.
Having ensured that he was medically fit governance is a key contributor to the Groups long term success.
to return, the Board has assisted Antonio in making appropriate adjustments to his reporting line and corporate support.
It is clear Our Board from his energy and commitment to the role that he has made a full recovery the Board has seen a number of changes this year, and in line with the provisions of the UK corporate Governance code and the interests ongoing review of board composition including a number of new q of good corporate governance, all directors are required to submit appointments themselves for re-election on an annual basis.
We are committed to oversight and challenge of the strategy and five year operating plan.
q ensuring we have the right balance of skills and experience within the this included a two day strategy offsite for the Board and executive Board, and we annually review its composition, and the diversity of team.
Insurance and commercial Banking have been a particular backgrounds of its members.
focus for the year following the appointment of Lord Blackwell, changes have been q Executive Remuneration made to the governance and oversight of the Insurance board to As a Group we are aware of the views of our various stakeholders on ensure closer alignment with the Group Board executive remuneration.
We seek to motivate, incentivise and retain monitoring of the progress of Project Verde, the EU mandated q our talent whilst remaining mindful of the current economic outlook.
divestment of branches As examples of the justified restraint in the current circumstances we have made no changes for 2013 in senior executives pay with one oversight of conduct issues with emphasis on embedding a culture q exception and our incentive compensation for 2012 in absolute amount of doing the right thing and as a percentage of revenues less than 2 per cent is lower than that an ongoing review of the adequacy of provisions, most recently in q of any other major banking institution in the United Kingdom.
relation to legacy conduct issues such as PPI and SME derivatives Additionally the Board is committed to maintaining alignment between establishment of a board committee chaired by david Roberts, the q our senior executives and shareholders and we continue to operate a chairman of our Risk committee, to oversee the Groups handling stringent deferral policy to ensure individual reward is aligned with the of the process and issues arising from the industry investigation into Groups performance, the interests of its shareholders, and a prudent LIBoR setting.
this also included implementation of the Wheatley approach to risk management allowing where necessary for appropriate Review to ensure robust processes going forward adjustment of incentive compensation to reflect malus.
In March 2012, the Group announced that it had applied a performance adjustment to the close scrutiny and control over executive remuneration arrangements q deferred bonuses of certain directors and senior managers in relation to including open and effective engagement with shareholders on a PPI.
the Long term Incentive Plan remains a core element of our reward range of remuneration matters.
the Board through the Risk and package, although this did not pay out for four years to 2012.
Remuneration committees has been particularly anxious to ensure appropriate risk adjustment.
At the Annual General Meeting in May 2012 the Group achieved over 97 per cent of votes in favour of its directors Remuneration Report Lloyds Banking Group 10 Annual Review 2012 GRoUP cHIEF ExEcUtIVES REVIEW Antnio Horta-osrio Significantly improved Group performance with core business increasingly well positioned for growth.
In addition to investing for sustainable growth and returns in our core Summary business, we are reducing risk through substantial reductions in our non-core In 2012, we accelerated the delivery of our strategic initiatives and are asset portfolios and a sustainable approach to risk in our core business, now ahead of our plan to transform the Group, despite the challenging which together have resulted in a significant reduction in the impairment economic environment and continued regulatory uncertainty.
We are also continuing to reduce risk and strengthen the balance of our actions, the Group is now in a far stronger position, with capital sheet by reducing wholesale funding, lowering operational leverage and ratios further improved, our funding position transformed, a significant building higher capital ratios.
We expect these initiatives, together with and capital-accretive reduction in non-core assets achieved, costs our focus on lower-volatility retail and commercial banking, to lower our reduced in absolute terms and asset quality further improved.
While risk premium over time, and give us a significant competitive advantage.
legacy issues, notably payment protection insurance PPI, resulted in the Group still reporting a loss at the statutory level, our achievements 2012 results overview resulted in a significant improvement in both Group underlying and statutory performance, and continued strong returns, above our cost of We delivered Group underlying profit before tax of 2,607 million in equity, being delivered in our core business.
2012, a substantial increase of approximately 2 billion when compared to 2011 reflecting a significant reduction in losses in our non-core business We are a UK focused retail and commercial bank, and our aim, as defined and stable profitability in the core business.
Income fell by 13 per cent to in our Strategic Review in June 2011 is to build a strong competitive 18,386 million as a result of customer deleveraging and lower margins advantage in terms of operational efficiency and risk premium, that will in the core business, and the substantial 42.3 billion reduction in the allow us to become the best bank for customers.
However, this was more than offset by our actions our drive to enhance operational efficiency and improve service to significantly reduce costs, which fell 5 per cent to 10,082 million, and continued at a pace in 2012, notably through the successful execution of by further improvements in asset quality, which resulted in a 42 per cent our Simplification programme.
due to the progress made, we are now reduction in the impairment charge to 5,697 million.
very close to achieving our original target of around 10 billion of total on a statutory basis, the Group reported a loss before tax of 570 million, costs, two years ahead of plan.
We are now targeting a further reduction with the principal reconciling items with underlying profit being provisions in Group total costs to around 9.8 billion in 2013. taken during the year in relation to the legacy issues of payment protection At the same time as achieving this further absolute reduction in costs, we insurance and interest rate hedging products IRHP sold to small and have re-invested a third of our Simplification savings and we are continuing medium-sized businesses SMEs of 3,575 million and 400 million to strengthen our core business by directing this investment to products respectively, a profit from asset sales of 2,547 million, and Simplification and channels which better meet the needs of our customers.
the provision and Ec mandated retail business disposal costs together amounting of simpler and more transparent products and services to our customers, to 1,246 million.
other reconciling items resulted in a net charge of built around their needs and delivered efficiently, is a key part of regaining 503 million.
the statutory loss before tax of 570 million represented a their trust.
the speed of our progression towards becoming the best bank significant improvement on last years statutory loss of 3,542 million.
for customers is clearly demonstrated by increasing customer advocacy the core business continues to deliver strong and stable returns above and steadily falling levels of banking complaints excluding PPI.
our cost of equity, with a return on risk-weighted assets of 2.56 per cent achieved in 2012, an increase of 10 basis points when compared to 2011 despite the challenging environment, with a small reduction in underlying profit of 42 million to 6,154 million being more than offset by a reduction of 6.1 billion in core risk-weighted assets.
We continued to reduce costs in the core business, where they fell 5 per cent to 9,212 million, while the continued application of our conservative risk appetite meant that asset quality remained good, and the core impairment charge reduced by 968 million to 1,919 million.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 11 We made substantial progress in reshaping the Group and strengthening the balance sheet.
We have proactively managed the run-down of our 5% 98.4 billion non-core assets, reducing the portfolio by almost a third in 12 months Total costs Non-core assets to 98.4 billion, ahead of plan, and we have continued to do so in a total costs reduced to 10.1 billion, We have proactively managed the capital-accretive way.
We have transformed our funding structure with in line with strategic review target two run-down of our non-core assets by our use of wholesale funding reduced by 81.6 billion in the year, and years ahead of plan.
almost a third in the year.
the average maturity profile of the remaining wholesale funding further improved, with less than 30 per cent now having a maturity of under one year.
the non-core reduction, together with above market deposit growth of 4 per cent, resulted in the Groups loan to deposit ratio reducing to 121 per cent, with the core loan to deposit ratio at 101 per cent, in line the benefits of the Simplification programme extend far beyond cost with our core long-term target of 100 per cent.
customers and staff are already benefiting from faster, more automated and less complex processes: for example, in commercial We further strengthened our capital ratios in 2012, with the Group core tier Banking we improved the lending process allowing businesses to receive 1 capital ratio increasing by 1.2 per cent to 12.0 per cent and our total capital their funds in almost half the time, while mobile and voice recognition ratio increasing by 1.7 per cent to 17.3 per cent, which is already in excess of technologies and simpler, faster processes in Retail and a quicker the IcBs primary loss-absorbing capacity PLAc recommendations.
on an claims process in Insurance are further examples of how our actions are estimated pro forma cRd IV fully loaded basis the Groups common equity contributing to increased customer advocacy.
tier 1 capital ratio would have been 8.1 per cent, including the successful resolution of two cRd IV items now likely to happen.
Given our strongly Reinvesting a proportion of the savings from the Simplification capital generative core business and continued progress in simultaneously programme into our core franchise allows us to provide even greater releasing capital and reducing risk through non-core asset disposals, we levels of support and service to our customers.
continue to be confident in our capital position.
In Retail, investment in our digital distribution capabilities continues to the substantial progress we are delivering in reducing risk and delivering be rewarded with the number of active internet customers increasing by on our strategic initiatives was reflected in the outcome of Moodys Investor 1.2 million in 2012 to 9.5 million, whilst our mobile banking apps, which were Service rating review of 114 financial institutions, where we received only a launched in october 2011, now have 3.3 million users.
We also achieved a single notch downgrade on Lloyds tSB Bank plcs longer-term senior debt major milestone of over a billion customer logons for the year.
Alongside and deposit ratings, and retained our short-term Prime-1 rating in June 2012. our digital services we are committed to investing in our branch network and refurbished 421 branches in 2012 and extended our opening hours.
In recognition of our ongoing commitment to customers we received a Accelerated delivery of strategic initiatives number of external awards including Best overall Lender at the Your In addition to further strengthening our balance sheet, we have made Mortgage Awards for the eleventh consecutive year and a three star mark substantial progress in the execution of the other elements of our from the Fairbanking Foundation for the Lloyds tSB classic Account.
strategic plan to be the best bank for our customers, through reshaping and simplifying our business and investing in our core franchise.
As part of being the best bank for customers, and reflecting the fact that the re-focusing of our SME business on delivery for customers is As we reshaped our business portfolio, we delivered improving credit well under way, we announced the creation of our commercial Banking quality trends in all divisions thanks to the rigorous application of risk division which brings together the Groups SME clients together with controls on all new business and the further fide-risking of existing larger corporate UK and global clients under the leadership of portfolios.
As a result, we achieved a further reduction in the Group Andrew Bester who joined us in June 2012. the changes will allow impairment charge of 42 per cent to 5,697 million, significantly ahead us to transfer best practices from SMEs into mid-sized corporates of our expectation at the beginning of 2012. the improving quality and to deliver operational synergies between the different segments of our portfolios and their decreasing risk profile was also reflected in order to become the best bank for our corporate and SME customers.
in a 12 per cent decrease in risk-weighted assets when compared to Across commercial Banking, as part of our programme to enhance our december 2011, principally driven by the reduction in non-core assets.
capabilities in capital efficient products, we have continued to invest in In line with our UK-focused strategy, we have made further progress the transaction Banking platform, delivering new product propositions in reducing our international presence, and have now completed or in card Payments & Acceptance, currencies and International cash announced our exit from twelve countries or overseas branches, as well Management.
We also continued to invest in enhancing our online as announcing a reduced presence in a further four locations.
capabilities, with the number of clients migrating to our foreign exchange our Simplification programme is central to the successful delivery of our and money market e-portal Arena tripling in 2012.
We also launched strategy and we continue to make significant progress in driving further cost specialised products, including a deposit account tailored to the needs of savings and efficiencies throughout the business.
We have reviewed our businesses in the agricultural sector.
We were voted Business Bank of the organisational structures, increasing average spans of control and reducing Year for the eighth consecutive year at the Real Fd cBI Excellence awards, the average number of management layers, while our cost Board continued a testament to our support for British businesses.
to drive a focus on cost efficiency by business line and by functional Within the Wealth business we have continued to leverage our expertise category.
the success of this approach is evidenced by our achievement to deepen customer insight and to invest in products and services of run rate cost savings from the programme of 847 million at the end that are tailored to meet the needs of our clients.
In preparation for the of 2012, ahead of plan, an achievement which gives us confidence in implementation of the Retail distribution Review RdR we invested reaching our run rate cost savings target of 1.9 billion by the end of 2014. in training our advisers to ensure that they are fully-qualified and best-positioned to continue to advise clients, and ensured that our systems and processes comply with new standards.
In 2012, we also launched our private banking client centre which improved the on-boarding experience for our UK Wealth clients, whilst making the referral process simpler for colleagues.
We have a strong market position in Asset Finance and have continued to invest in our technology platform in 2012 to provide an improved, cost-effective customer experience.
Lloyds Banking Group 12 Annual Review 2012 GRoUP cHIEF ExEcUtIVES REVIEW Lloyds Banking Group is an important institution for the prosperity and growth of the UK and we are committed to nurturing UK business.
the Lloyds tSB Enterprise Awards, now in their second year, celebrate innovation, drive and dedication within UK businesses and provided a number of winners with business support and a cash prize to invest in their business in 2012.
For our UK Retail customers, we provided 26.2 billion of gross new mortgage lending in 2012. this included supporting over 55,000 customers in buying their first home, equivalent to one in every four first time buyers.
We also launched a number of innovative shared equity and shared ownership mortgage offers as well as supporting the Local Lend a Hand Scheme which has helped over 900 first time buyers to become homeowners.
our customers must be the focus of everything we do, and getting customer service right is at the heart of our strategy.
the further Mortgages substantial improvement in our Net Promoter Scores in 2012 shows the We provided 26.2 billion of gross new mortgage progress we have made in rebuilding trust with our customers.
We also lending in 2012. this included supporting delivered a substantial reduction in FSA reportable banking complaints, over 55,000 customers in buying their first home, excluding PPI, ending 2012 with one of the best performances of UK banks equivalent to one in every four first time buyers.
with just 1.1 complaints per 1,000 accounts.
We have now brought forward the 2014 complaint reduction target of 1.0 complaint per 1,000 accounts to 2013.
In 2012, and over the past five years, we have supported many of our customers in their involvement in, and initiatives relating to, London 2012. through our partnership with the olympic and Paralympic Games, we In Insurance, we continued to invest in our core systems, products and supported 1 in 3 of the 2,000 companies that won London 2012 contracts, processes in advance of RdR and the launch of pension auto-enrolment, and played our role in the unprecedented success of the Games for the UK.
to enable us to support both retail and commercial customers through this period of change.
We have taken the first steps towards launching an enhanced annuities proposition, with full implementation into this growing Greater clarity emerging on market expected in mid-2013.
We are pleased with the further progress in UK regulatory framework enhancing our proposition, with Scottish Widows being recognised for its In october the Government published the draft Financial Services Bill, products, service and quality, receiving a number of industry awards including the first step in implementing the recommendations of the Independent Best Group Pension Provider in the corporate Adviser Awards 2012. commission on Banking.
We support the recommendation to ring-fence retail banking operations, and recent proposals to ensure its Further supporting our customers and the implementation, as we believe that it will result in a safer, more stable UK banking sector and economy, and will therefore require lower capital and UK economy liquidity requirements than would otherwise be necessary.
our future and that of the UK economy are inextricably linked, and as the largest UK retail and commercial bank we are aware of the importance We agree with the Financial Policy committee that banks need to focus on of our role in helping Britain prosper and the mutual benefit of doing so.
strengthening their balance sheets in order to become increasingly resilient our utilisation of the UK Governments Funding for Lending Scheme FLS and to support the economy, and this is entirely consistent with the Groups underlined our support in 2012 for the UK economic recovery.
We were strategy and the progress we continue to deliver.
Greater clarification the first bank to participate in the scheme and have committed in excess from both the UK regulator and the European Union on rules surrounding of 11 billion in gross funds to customers through the scheme since its capital, funding and liquidity is expected to be received in 2013. launch in September, having only drawn 3 billion from the scheme so far.
We are committed to passing the financial benefit of this low-cost funding Dividends on to our customers and to the areas that can be of the most economic We remain committed to recommencing dividend payments when the benefit to the UK, including SMEs and first time home buyers.
financial position of the Group and market conditions permit and after SMEs play a key part in UK economic growth and we continued to regulatory capital requirements are clearly defined and prudently met.
We exceeded our SME charter lending Although we made considerable progress in 2012, given regulatory commitment of 13 billion, having increased the original 12 billion target uncertainty and the statutory loss in the year, a dividend payment has not during the year, while also committing to lend an extra 1 billion to UK been recommended this year.
In addition, we beat our three year target of assisting 300,000 new start-ups by the end of 2012, helping to stimulate EC mandated business disposal Project Verde economic output and improve business confidence.
this support for UK SME customers is underlined by our net SME lending growth of 4 per cent We continue to make good progress in the creation of Verde as a in the year, for the second year running, compared to the market which stand-alone bank which, as contemplated from the start of the process, saw a reduction in net lending to SMEs of 4 per cent.
will allow the Group to divest the business either through a sale or an Initial Public offering.
From the summer 2013, Verde will be operating as a separate business within the Lloyds Banking Group under the tSB brand.
We reached an agreement on non-binding Heads of terms with the co-operative Group plc in July 2012 and continue to make progress with these discussions towards signing a binding sales purchase agreement.
our aim remains to obtain best value for our shareholders as well as certainty, also for our customers and colleagues, while complying with the Ec requirement to divest the business by the end of November 2013.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 13 We aim to ensure that all of our colleagues uphold the highest ethical Addressing legacy issues including payment standards and have the right tools to do their jobs, and in part this will be protection insurance achieved by creating a positive working environment.
As part of this, we the Group continues to address legacy issues, and remains committed have continued to develop our internal programmes supporting diversity, to resolving them and treating our customers fairly.
the Group has enhancing our ability to retain and attract talent across the Group.
In had further experience of PPI complaint volumes, uphold rates and September 2012 we launched our codes of Responsibility which define operational and redress costs since our third quarter 2012 Interim how we aspire to do business and which provide all our stakeholders Management Statement.
As a consequence, we have made a further colleagues, customers, communities and suppliers with clarity and provision of 1,500 million in the fourth quarter, which brings the amount transparency about what we stand for, helping us to rebuild our culture provided for PPI in 2012 to 3,575 million, and the total amount provided to and reinforce our values.
total costs incurred to the end of 2012 were 4,344 million, Remuneration continues to be an important topic for the Group and for including approximately 700 million of related administration costs.
We are actively working to ensure continued alignment Given the agreement with the FSA reached on 30 January 2013 following between performance and reward, and that colleagues are appropriately the outcome of a pilot review of IRHP sales to small and medium-sized incentivised, with variable pay reflecting effective risk controls and the businesses, the Group now believes it is appropriate to increase its best outcome for customers.
Bonus awards are subject to deferral and provision for IRHP by 310 million in the fourth quarter, based on the adjustment, and in 2012 total discretionary awards were approximately revised estimates of redress and related administration costs.
the 3 per cent lower than last year.
Salary rewards have been limited, and provision in relation to IRHP redress is now 300 million, and we have also frozen at more senior levels for the second year running, to reflect the provided for 100 million of related administration costs, all of which was continuing challenging economic environment.
Outlook Our commitment to colleagues After a year of challenging economic conditions in 2012, we expect to the progress we continue to deliver and our achievements in 2012 are see some economic growth in 2013, although this is expected to be a product of the commitment, drive and performance of our colleagues, below-trend, with the Bank of England base rate remaining at current and we see a real opportunity to improve engagement across all parts levels.
However, house prices are expected to rise slowly and the FLS of the Group.
should progressively have a further impact on lending.
Some stabilisation in the Eurozone, combined with lower borrowing costs, should see the results of our colleague survey shows strong levels of engagement investment start to contribute to the improving environment.
Future in some areas, such as using customer feedback to improve processes.
economic developments do, however, remain dependent on progress However work still remains to ensure that Lloyds Banking Group is a great in the Eurozone, and the impact of new banking regulation on the supply place to work.
the current economic climate, and the constant focus of credit to the economy.
on the financial services sector has undoubtedly affected colleague engagement, but we now have a real opportunity, through visible action, In this context, and with continuing successful delivery against our to improve engagement across the Group which in turn will continue strategic initiatives, we are targeting core loan growth in the second to support the delivery of our strategy.
half of 2013 and an increase in the Group net interest margin to around 1.98 per cent for the full year.
We anticipate a further improvement in asset quality, driving an expected substantial reduction in the 2013 impairment charge, with the correspondent increase in underlying profit before tax, while we also expect costs will continue to decrease with Group total costs reduced to around 9.8 billion in 2013.
We also remain confident in meeting our medium-term guidance.
We expect to reduce the non-core asset portfolio at least by a further 20 billion in 2013, and we therefore remain on track to achieve a non-core asset portfolio of 70 billion or less by the end of 2014, with more than half of this amount in retail assets.
Conclusion We have delivered a substantial transformation of Lloyds Banking Group in the first 18 months of delivery on our strategy, despite a challenging environment and the need to address legacy issues.
We are now ahead of SME lending plan in creating a competitive advantage through a reduced risk premium We exceeded our 2012 SME charter lending and best-in-class efficiency.
We are making significant investments in our commitment of 13 billion, while also committing to lend simple, lower-risk, customer-focused UK retail and commercial banking an extra 1 billion to UK manufacturing businesses.
model, thereby continuing to support our customers and helping Britain to prosper.
We expect this to enable us to return to profitability and to grow our core business, to realise our full potential to deliver strong, stable and sustainable returns to shareholders, and to allow UK taxpayers investment in the Group to be repaid.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Group chief Executive Lloyds Banking Group 14 Annual Review 2012 GRoUP KEY PERFoRMANcE INdIcAtoRS MEASURING StRAtEGIc PERFoRMANcE Our strategy PERFORMANCE MEASURES Lloyds Banking Group operates a simple, lower risk, customer focused UK retail and commercial banking business model.
our strategy is Unlocking the Groups potential built around becoming the best bank for customers and creating value We are reshaping our business portfolio to fit our assets, capabilities by investing in areas that make a real difference to these customers.
and risk appetite, strengthening the Groups balance sheet and liquidity customer leadership driven by superior customer insight, tailored position, simplifying the Group to improve agility and efficiency and products, better service and relationship focus is the overriding priority.
investing to be the best bank for customers.
A comprehensive set of Key By leveraging these capabilities and our strategic assets we believe we Performance Indicators KPIs has been developed to track progress in can help Britain prosper and deliver strong, stable and sustainable returns each of these areas and is outlined in the Strategy section.
We have over 30 million customers, iconic brands, including Lloyds tSB, Halifax, Bank of Scotland and Scottish Widows, and high-quality, 4 committed people.
We are creating a simpler, more agile, efficient and More on our responsive organisation with a real focus on operating sustainably and strategy and KPIs responsibly.
We will focus on core markets which offer strong returns and attractive growth, while maintaining a prudent approach to risk and further strengthening the Groups balance sheet.
Building customer relationships How we measure performance customer relationships are key to our strategy and critical for all our We track our progress against our strategy to become the best bank businesses.
the significant differences across the divisions means financial for customers using a range of performance measures.
our progress in and non-financial strategic indicators for the development of customer these areas is measured against a number of key financial indicators which relationships are generally tracked at a divisional level and commentary is are shown here.
included in the specific divisional commentaries.
to assess progress in our aim of becoming the best bank for customers we measure customer satisfaction and are publically committed to reducing complaints.
our colleagues are a key differentiator and we use an engagement survey to assess individual motivation and PERFORMANCE organisational processes.
MEASURES Unlocking the Building customer Groups potential relationships 22 24 More on More on customer our staff satisfaction engagement and customer score complaints OUTPUT MEASURES OUTPUT MEASURES Significant progress has been made against our strategic priorities during 2012 which has been reflected in improved underlying profits and a stronger capital position.
this was also reflected in an improved statutory performance despite a number of one off items including the 3.6 billion provision for PPI.
Alignment of remuneration with performance to help ensure individuals are acting in the best interest of customers and shareholders, remuneration at all levels of the organisation across the business is aligned to the strategic development and financial performance of the business.
All staff, including Executive directors, have a balanced scorecard which measures performance across five areas customer, building the business, risk, people and finance which is aligned to the Groups strategic priorities and reviewed on a regular basis.
Executive remuneration, in particular bonuses and incentive plans, is also assessed against balanced scorecard measures which incorporate Group financial performance measures, notably profit before tax, economic profit, earnings per share and total shareholder return.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 15 Balance sheet reduction bn Loan to deposit ratio % Simplification cost savings m Investment m non-core assets run rate 847 337 194 154 135 121 141 98 167 242 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Excellent progress continues to be made in We have made good progress in reducing our The Simplification programme has been As Simplification benefits materialise we reshaping the business through the reduction loan to deposit ratio with the core loan to running for 18 months and has maintained are looking to increase the investment in of our non-core assets which now stand at deposit ratio now at 101 per cent, very close strong progress throughout the year, with over the business and have committed to invest 98 billion.
to our core long-term target of 100 per cent, 200 initiatives underway across the Group.
500 million pa by 2014 in addition to our thereby strengthening our balance sheet.
business as usual investment programme.
Customer satisfaction % Customer complaints FSA banking Staff engagement score % Net Promoter Score complaints per 1,000 a c UK industry average 49 1.7 69 68 44 1.5 1.4 63 63 38 61 52 60 48 1.1 2010 2011 2012 H1 2011 H2 2011 H1 2012 H2 2012 EEI 2011 EEI 2012 PEI 2011 PEI 2012 We have developed a comprehensive Through our Simplification programme and The Employee Engagement Index EEI customer experience programme measuring continued focus on becoming the best bank measures the individual motiviation of customer service at key touch points and their for customers, our FSA reportable banking colleagues whilst the Performance Excellence likelihood to recommend us.
This is measured complaints continued to fall.
Index PEI measures how strongly colleagues through the cross industry Net Promoter Score believe the Group is committed to improving Excluding PPI metric where we have seen continued progress.
Underlying profit loss m Statutory profit loss m Earnings per share p Core tier 1 capital ratio % before tax before tax 281 2,607 2010 2010 2011 2012 12.0 2011 2012 0.5 10.8 10.2 570 2.0 638 2011 2012 2010 4.1 2011 901 3,542 2010 2012 Lloyds Banking Group 16 Annual Review 2012 dIVISIoNAL oVERVIEW ANd KPIs 2012 highlights In 2012, Retail further increased its profits and returns, and made q REt AIL substantial progress towards its goal of being the best bank for customers.
The Retail division operates the largest retail bank in the UK and is a leading provider of current accounts, Underlying profit increased by 16 per cent, and core underlying profit q by 21 per cent, driven by strong cost control and a significant reduction savings, personal loans, credit cards and mortgages.
the division is focused on improving customer service and advocacy Return on risk-weighted assets increased to 3.21 per cent from q and becoming the best bank for customers.
With its strong stable of 2.56 per cent in 2011, driven primarily by the increase in profits.
brands including Lloyds tSB, Halifax, Bank of Scotland and cheltenham & Gloucester, it serves over 30 million customers through one of the largest Retail has made continued progress in improving its customer service q branch and fee free AtM networks in the UK and a comprehensive digital, scores and saw a reduction in customer complaints excluding PPI telephony and mobile proposition.
of 28 per cent during 2012, both key indicators of customer advocacy.
this has supported the strengthening of brand consideration to In meeting the financial needs of its customers the division provides a market leading levels.
comprehensive product range to ensure differing customer requirements the Simplification programme has delivered significant improvements can be effectively met.
this includes a range of current accounts including q in customer experience, process efficiencies and reduced sourcing packaged accounts and basic banking accounts.
It is also the largest costs.
this contributed to the strong cost performance delivered provider of personal loans in the UK, as well as being the UKs leading by Retail.
Retail provides one in five new residential mortgages and provided over 55,000 mortgages to help first time buyers in 2012, We continued to support the first time buyer mortgage market, q making it one of the leading UK mortgage lenders.
Retail is the largest lending to one in four first time buyers.
We also increased our private sector savings provider in the UK.
It is also a major general insurance commitment for lending to first time buyers during 2013.
In addition, and bancassurance distributor, offering a wide range of long-term savings, we continue to deliver strong growth in customer deposit balances investment and general insurance products.
attracting funds from almost one in every four savers.
Key brands include: Retail continues to support local communities through its contribution q to Group programmes and through direct commitments by Retail colleagues.
In 2012 over 8,500 colleagues in Retail used their day to Make a difference in local communities, including supporting National School Sports Week.
1 Contribution towards total Group income Performance indicators Underlying profit before tax m Impairment as a percentage % of average advances 3,188 2,881 2,749 0.74 46% 0.54 8,657m 0.36 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Customer deposits bn Active online million excluding repos customers 261 247 9.5 236 8.3 7.6 1 Excludes Group operations, central items and insurance claims.
2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 17 2012 highlights commercial Banking was created in the fourth quarter of 2012 bringing q c oMMERcIAL Small and Medium-sized Enterprises SME together with larger corporate UK and global clients to ensure consistent and effective client coverage.
the former Wholesale division has been combined BANKING with the Australian and European corporate businesses previously reported in the International segment of Wealth, International and The Commercial Banking division supports Asset Finance.
our business clients from small businesses We continued to deepen our relationships with core clients through q to large corporates.
our investment in new products and capabilities to drive capital efficiency and through our lending commitments to support the division operates a client-centric approach, primarily focused the UK economy and SMEs, including our involvement in the on UK businesses and businesses with strong links to the UK, with UK Governments National Loan Guarantee and the Funding for coverage comprising SMEs, Mid Markets, Global corporates and Lending Scheme FLS.
Strong local knowledge, a real client focus and a comprehensive product range enables us to quickly provide clients Underlying loss reduced by 60 per cent due to a 30 per cent reduction q with tailored solutions and an effective service.
in impairments, which more than offset the reduction in total underlying income.
commercial Banking provides support to corporate clients through the provision of core banking products, such as lending, deposits core underlying profit increased by 1 per cent to 1,748 million, driven q and transaction banking services whilst also offering clients expertise by reduced impairments and improved other income from resilient in capital markets private placements, bonds and syndicated loans, performances in capital Markets, Financial Markets and Ldc.
this was financial markets foreign exchange, interest rate management, money offset by lower net interest income, return on risk-weighted assets market and credit and private equity.
this enables us to meet the increased to 1.36 per cent from 1.32 per cent.
varying and sometimes complex needs of corporate clients whilst Underlying loss in the former Wholesale business reduced by q ensuring capital efficiency.
36 per cent due to a 31 per cent reduction in impairments and improved other income.
this more than offset lower net interest Key brands include: income, resulting from our strategic non-core asset reduction and increased wholesale funding costs.
Underlying profit in the former commercial business increased q by 10 per cent, driven by reduced impairments and costs partly offset by lower underlying income.
core net lending grew by 4 per cent against market contraction of 4 per cent and we assisted in excess of 120,000 SMEs to start up in 2012.
1 Contribution towards total Group income Performance indicators Underlying loss before tax m Impairment as a percentage % of average advances 2.62 2.32 2011 2012 2010 1.85 27% 324 5,138m 812 2010 2011 2012 1,782 Non-core assets bn Commercial net % lending growth 2012 core 115 4.0 Lloyds Banking 76 Group Market 43 1 Excludes Group operations, central items and insurance claims.
2010 2011 2012 4.0 Lloyds Banking Group 18 Annual Review 2012 dIVISIoNAL oVERVIEW ANd KPIs 2012 highlights In 2012 we achieved strong profitable growth in our Wealth and q WEALtH, ASSEt Asset Finance businesses while simultaneously making progress in strengthening our balance sheet, simplifying our international operating model and investing in building capability for the future.
FINANcE ANd divisional performance improved in 2012 with losses reducing by q 67 per cent to 929 million primarily driven by lower impairments, mainly in Ireland.
Profits in the core business increased by 27 per cent, INtERNA tIoNAL to 459 million driven by strong performance in the Wealth and Asset Finance businesses.
Wealth, Asset Finance and International comprises our core return on risk-weighted assets increased from 3.62 per cent UK and international wealth businesses, our UK and q to 5.07 per cent.
international asset finance and online deposit businesses the balance sheet has been further strengthened through 24 per cent q along with our international retail businesses.
growth in customer deposits and a reduction in non-core assets the Wealth business comprises private banking and asset management.
of a further 20 per cent, including a 3.7 billion reduction in our Wealths private banking operations cater to the full range of wealth Irish portfolio.
clients from affluent to Ultra High Net Worth within the UK, channel We achieved cost savings of 5 per cent through further progress on q Islands and Isle of Man, and internationally.
Scottish Widows Investment Simplification initiatives which in turn enabled further investment in Partnership SWIP provides asset management services to both internal the core businesses to improve the customer experience.
We continue to reshape our operations by further streamlining our q Asset Finance consists of a number of leasing and speciality lending international footprint through the announced exits from five countries businesses in the UK including Lex Autolease and Black Horse Motor and following seven exits last year and a significantly reduced presence Personal Finance along with our leasing and speciality lending businesses in a further four.
in Australia and our European online deposit business.
the international business comprises the Groups non-core banking business outside the UK, with the exception of corporate business written through the commercial Banking division.
this primarily comprises Ireland, Retail Europe and Asia.
Key brands include: 1 Contribution towards total Group income Performance indicators Underlying loss before tax m Impairment as a percentage % of average advances 7.81 2010 2011 2012 6.48 15% 929 2,842m 3.12 2,785 2010 2011 2012 3,652 Customer deposits bn UK wealth Clients excluding repos relationships 186,012 179,331 52 166,064 42 32 1 Excludes Group operations, central items and insurance claims.
2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 19 2012 highlights In 2012 we combined our UK Life Pensions and Investments and q INSURANcE General Insurance businesses and restructured our operation to enable greater customer and market focus which contributed The Insurance division provides long-term savings, to an 8 per cent decrease in costs and leaves us well placed protection and investment products and general to realise benefits from risk diversification.
insurance products to customers in the UK total underlying profit reduced by 24 per cent and core underlying q and Europe.
profit by 21 per cent, primarily reflecting a reduction in total underlying income, largely due to the subdued economic climate the UK Life, Pensions and Investments business provides long-term and increased weather related claims, partly offset by an 8 per cent savings, protection and investment products distributed through the decrease in costs.
bancassurance, intermediary and direct channels of the Lloyds tSB, Halifax, Bank of Scotland and Scottish Widows brands.
the European We have invested in extending our life insurance proposition q Life, Pensions and Investments business distributes products primarily with a new earnings protection offer which has simpler application in the German market under the Heidelberger Leben and clerical and claims processes.
We have further enhanced our corporate Pensions proposition, q the General Insurance business is a leading distributor of home insurance with the addition of AssistMe, an auto-enrolment tool that in the UK, with products sold through the branch network, direct channels complements our MyMoneyWorks corporate pension platform.
It operates primarily under the Lloyds tSB, the strength of our proposition, combined with strong activity in Halifax and Bank of Scotland brands.
the run up to implementation of the Retail distribution Review RdR, has driven 23 per cent growth in corporate pensions.
Key brands include: our recent enhanced annuities pilot has been an important step q towards further strengthening our overall retirement savings business.
our focus on putting customers first has led us to improve our home q insurance claims management processes which has enabled us to get our customers back into their homes more quickly following the extreme weather events throughout 2012, helping improve customer satisfaction and contain claims costs.
We have delivered balance sheet initiatives that have strengthened q the Groups balance sheet, providing 1.4 billion liquidity and have now mitigated 5.3 billion of the potential impact of cRd IV, whilst improving Insurance returns.
1 Contribution towards total Group income Performance indicators Underlying profit before tax m LP&I m new business profit 1,465 331 1,369 318 266 1,107 12% 2,216m 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Ota vendantion pero quae nianduc imintia vellis Ota vendantion pero quae nianduc imintia vellis doluptio essi bea dolorection et estionsentur doluptio essi bea dolorection et estionsentur LP&I % LP&I m rerum quiae nam unfit, quid et, at volorecte num rerum quiae nam unfit, quid et, at volorecte num new business margin EEV PVNBP sales elictur aturerunti nusa poritatibus di utemporent, elictur aturerunti nusa poritatibus di utemporent, temporum nis et eum fuga.
10,828 10,662 10,364 4.0 3.8 3.5 1 Excludes Group operations, central items and insurance claims.
2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Ota vendantion pero quae nianduc imintia vellis Ota vendantion pero quae nianduc imintia vellis doluptio essi bea dolorection et estionsentur doluptio essi bea dolorection et estionsentur rerum quiae nam unfit, quid et, at volorecte num rerum quiae nam unfit, quid et, at volorecte num elictur aturerunti nusa poritatibus di utemporent, elictur aturerunti nusa poritatibus di utemporent, temporum nis et eum fuga.
Lloyds Banking Group 20 Annual Review 2012 RELAtIoNSHIPS ANd RESPoNSIBILItY BUILdING V ALUABLE RELA tIoNSHIPS tHE SUccESSFUL dELIVERY oF oUR S tRAtEGY ANd FocUS oN HELPING BRI tAIN PRoSPER WILL BE dRIVEN BY tHE RELAtIoNSHIPS WE dEVELoP With over 30 million personal and business customers Rebuilding trust 1 and a presence in communities across the country, Recent external research undertaken by Ipsos MoRI on behalf of Lloyds Banking Group showed that, through the eyes of our customers and we are very well placed to help unlock the potential potential customers, relationships and responsibility are inseparable.
of families, businesses and communities we serve, and When it comes to responsible banking, our customers dont just think make a significant contribution to the future strength of the areas covered by a traditional corporate responsibility programme.
Being the best bank for For them, taking responsibility more seriously means being a bank that: customers, alongside a focus on operating sustainably is offering better service q and responsibly, underpins our approach to business.
looks after the financial interests of customers q In order to meet our ambitions to be the best bank for customers and responds to customer needs, e. g. offering longer opening to help Britain prosper we need strong relationships with our customers q hours in branches, enhancing access through a range of channels as well as our colleagues and communities.
this section of our report including the internet explains why and how we nurture these relationships.
At Lloyds Banking Group, we see ourselves as having a clear role to play provides clear communication q in helping Britain prosper.
As the UKs largest retail and commercial has policies in place on environmental protection q bank, we are already doing more than our peers to help people manage has policies in place on human rights and ethics q their finances.
invests in communities q Lloyds Banking Group brands offer essential services to our customers helping people to buy their first homes, offering SMEs support, and using Alongside these findings, Ipsos MoRIs Issues Index shows that the state our peoples skills to give UK communities access to appropriate financial of the UK economy remained the primary concern of the British public products.
But with faith in the sector at a low level, we recognise the need throughout 2012. to rebuild trust with our customers.
operating responsibly whist improving customer service and helping Britain prosper are fundamental components of our Group strategy.
We can only achieve our customer focused strategy by building a sound reputation founded on the highest standards of corporate behaviour.
Relationships and responsibility the Group considers the three stakeholder groups of customers, colleagues and communities as key crucially recognising their interdependence as we realise our vision of being the best bank for customers.
Meeting customers needs by developing appropriate products can only be achieved through the commitment and applied skills of our colleagues.
Equally, we recognise the role our people play in helping communities to thrive through the services and advice we give to UK business, and through the programmes that promote financial capability and inclusion.
1 the full research findings for the Ipsos MoRI research are available at www.
com Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 21 Corporate Responsibility Ensuring the business is run sustainably and responsibly is a priority for the Group.
our responsible business strategy, focused around working with households, businesses and communities, is aligned to our overall business strategy and our aim to help Britain prosper.
our approach to corporate Responsibility, along with current priorities is developed by our Responsible Business Steering Group RBSG, which reports directly to the Group Board.
the RBSG develops principles and priorities from a top-level perspective and ensures they are embedded throughout our operations.
the RBSG is chaired by Anita Frew, Non-Executive director of Lloyds Banking Group, and includes senior representation from across Lloyds Banking Group.
the RBSG also guides and focuses the areas that are most material to cUStoMERS our business.
the top priorities at present are: customer care: supporting financial inclusion: and helping UK business and households.
the Steering Group will continue to review areas of focus in 2013, with a particular view to integrating stakeholder interests on material issues.
22 In addition to this internal committee we have also established a high-level experts group, an external stakeholder panel and have created a colleague focus group to ensure the views of our stakeholders are considered and effectively addressed in our reporting and communications.
to ensure the highest standards of corporate behaviour in 2012 we launched the new codes of Responsibility to guide our decision making.
these codes, governed by the RBSG, specifically outline the way we aspire to do business as individuals and as a corporation, and are based on five pillars of responsible business which include customers, colleagues and communities.
Lloyds Banking Group has retained our position in the FtSE4Good socially responsible investment index and our overall scores remained broadly stable in the dow Jones Sustainability Index.
In addition we maintained our position in the carbon disclosure Project and retained Platinum status in the Business in the community cR Index.
We are looking to build a leadership position in responsible business and developing a roadmap which will help us improve our performance coLLEAGUES and related rankings going forward.
We aspire to conduct business in a way that values and respects the human rights of our colleagues, customers and those of the communities 24 in which we operate.
We adhere to the principles of the United Nations declaration of Human Rights, International Labour organisation Fundamental conventions and are signatories to the Equator Principles.
our codes of Responsibility set standards of ethical behaviour for our colleagues.
We also take into account social, ethical and environmental issues in our investment, lending and service operations.
the day-to-day implementation of our responsible business strategy is managed by the Group community & Sustainable Business team.
during 2012 we continued to develop our community Strategy around the themes of Education, Employability and Enterprise.
More detail on our approach to corporate responsibility and future plans will be described in our 2012 Responsible Business report which will be published in May 2013. our 2011 report along with further information on our approach to corporate responsibility and our codes of responsibility can be found on our website at www.
com In line with the Groups values of putting customers first, keeping it simple, and making a difference together we are looking to build a strong and profitable Group, with a culture which reinforces stringent behavioural coMMUNItIES standards and ensures we are operating sustainably and responsibly, both inside and outside of the organisation.
26 Lloyds Banking Group 22 Annual Review 2012 RELAtIoNSHIPS ANd RESPoNSIBILItY BE tHE BESt FoR oUR c U StoME R S SMEs and fast growing enterprises play a vital role in creating jobs and generating growth in the UK.
We demonstrated our support for SME customers with gross lending of 13.2 billion in 2012, delivering year on year net lending growth of 4 per cent in this business area.
This was in contrast to a decline in the stock of lending of 4 per cent across the industry.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 23 Simple, tailored products and services our strategy recognises our customers needs for product simplicity c U S to M E R S and transparency, access through multiple channels and value for money products and services.
We have worked hard to ensure we are offering Only by focusing on customers needs and addressing products and services that respond to customers evolving needs and as a those needs can we expect to deliver benefit to result a number of new and innovative products have been launched in 2012. our stakeholders.
We have extended the innovative Lloyds tSB Lend a Hand Mortgage to help customers purchase a home with the help of their local authority.
Aim We also launched our Best for Business campaign and reaffirmed our continued support for the SME charter to respond to 90 per cent of our aim is to be the best bank for customers.
Becoming the best bank lending appeals within 15 working days, which will exceed the industry for customers means being the best bank for families, for businesses standard of 30 days.
In our Retail division, the Halifax Savers Prize draw and for our communities.
We will achieve this by focusing on: continues to be popular, with over 1 million customers subscribing.
UK customers and those connected to the UK q We also developed new ways to support our customers savings requirements including the Junior ISA that allows young people to start Simplifying processes, policies and systems q to build a tax free savings pot.
Investment in growth initiatives q In meeting the needs of our customers, we have also made strong An appropriate risk appetite q progress this year on improving the products and services we offer Ensuring the business has the strength in funding and capital customers with disabilities.
the progress to date has been accomplished q to meet the most challenging of headwinds.
through many initiatives and our ongoing work under the Prime Ministers challenge on dementia and working with disability Rights UK.
the Business disability Forum ranked Lloyds Banking Group joint second Helping Britain prosper in the disability Standard 2011 12 and this activity will continue into 2013 the strategy for the Group is built on being the best bank for customers, with the introduction of additional services to improve our accessibility and to create value by investing where we can make a real difference to customers with a wide range of disabilities.
the customer is at the heart of everything we do, whether that be in our branches, our brands or our people.
this commitment is Customer service and simplification supported by the Group values of putting customers first, keeping it In line with our strategy to become the best bank for customers, simple and making a difference together.
customer needs remain at the heart of how we reshape our businesses.
We are committed to supporting the UK housing market and first time through our Simplification programme we have continued to enhance buyers in particular, writing one in four of all first time buyer mortgage and streamline customer processes, with significant improvements being loans completed in the UK for the fourth consecutive year, helping over made during the year such as the re-design of our account switching 55,000 customers own their own homes.
We have committed publicly and closure processes, improvements to our cash ISA transfer process, to lending 6.5 billion to 60,000 first time buyers in 2013, the UKs enhancements to our end-to-end bereavement process, and the biggest-ever commitment to support first time buyers.
streamlining of our commercial lending process.
We have also introduced during 2012 we underlined our commitment to SME and Mid Markets Interactive Voice Response technology, which guides customer calls lending by successfully participating in both the National Loans Guarantee accurately and promptly to the right service.
Scheme NLGS, and the Governments Funding for Lending FLS customer satisfaction is assessed through the Net Promoter Score NPS, initiative.
We have issued our full funding allocation of 1.4 billion under which measures the likelihood of customers recommending us to others.
NLGS, as well as becoming the first bank to participate in the scheme our high street brands made significant headway in 2012, achieving their and have committed in excess of 11 billion in gross funds.
highest ever NPS scores, with the Group wide score rising from 44 in 2011 As further evidence of the long-term assistance that we offer to enterprise, to 49 at the end of 2012. at the start of 2010 we launched our SME charter.
Within this we pledged to support 300,000 new businesses set up by the end of 2012.
We are Treating customers fairly delighted to say that this target was exceeded with 350,000 such central to our aim of building deep and lasting customer relationships is businesses being helped across the three year period.
In cases where our determination to treat customers fairly and ensure we are transparent businesses have experienced financial difficulties, our Business Support in dealings with them.
We conduct regular monitoring to check that we are Unit is specifically tasked with providing help.
Since 2009 the BSU has complying with our robust customer treatment policies and are achieving restructured facilities for around 10,000 businesses and has protected fair outcomes for customers.
customer outcomes are an important more than 250,000 UK jobs.
component in colleague reward and remuneration.
Complaint handling Financial Inclusion As part of our strategy to become the best bank for customers we publicly We aim to lead the banking sector in reaching those who are committed to reduce the level of FSA reportable banking complaints, financially excluded and equip them with the confidence and capability excluding PPI, we receive by 20 per cent year on year.
We achieved a to manage their money effectively.
We are the UKs biggest provider of reduction from 1.5 complaints per 1,000 accounts in the second half of basic bank accounts, currently providing over 3 million such accounts and 2011 to 1.1 in the second half of 2012.
We aim to reduce this further in in 2012 opened around 225,000 new accounts.
In 2012 we also helped 2013 to 1.0 complaint per 1,000 accounts.
this has been accomplished over 100,000 customers move to a full facility current account, alongside through the ongoing success of our phone-a-friend service, a dedicated making a number of improvements to make it easier for basic bank team which branch and call centre staff can refer to for specialist support account customers to upgrade.
with complaint handling, and the training we provide to our front line colleagues.
As a result we are now resolving over 90 per cent of complaints at first touch.
In addition, we offer a 24 hours a day, 7 days a week service, helping colleagues to resolve complaints around the clock, ensuring customers get the right outcome faster.
Lloyds Banking Group 24 Annual Review 2012 RELAtIoNSHIPS ANd RESPoNSIBILItY c oLLEAGUES W H o PU t c UStoMERS FIRSt With colleagues who put customers first, keep it simple and make a difference together, we will deliver the service that makes us the best bank for customers.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 25 Learning and Development Learning and development supports our colleagues to be the best c o LLE A G U E S they can be to help us be the best bank for customers.
We have continued to deliver Group wide leadership programmes to accelerate Our colleagues will deliver the service that makes us the development of the most effective leaders and to strengthen our the best bank for customers.
the Groups focus on its Emerging talent programmes significantly Aim increased in 2012.
It saw the launch of two new Group wide programmes our Apprentice Scheme and Future Executives Programme.
our ambition is to be a bank where our colleagues give their best and want to build their career.
our people are at the heart of our business Significant progress has been made on improving both the efficiency and are critical in ensuring that we deliver our strategy to be the best bank and effectiveness of the learning offered to colleagues.
It has moved more for customers and through this, help Britain prosper.
classroom training to e-Learning, and maintained the average amount of training received to a level above industry benchmarks.
Each colleague should have access to the training and development opportunities that enable them to do their role well.
this should also the Group wide Academies have now been fully implemented, providing ensure that we are able to grow talent internally, to drive our business a clear path to learning for all colleagues.
Having a diverse workforce is also a priority for us.
At Lloyds Banking Performance and Reward Group, we want the diversity of our employee base to reflect the Managing performance plays a critical role in helping us to develop population of the UK and who our customers are: the better we reflect our colleagues to build long term partnerships with customers and strong our marketplace the better we can serve it.
We also aim to encourage our colleagues to work closely with the Reflecting the regulatory environment, continued good progress has been community to build lasting relationships that are the foundation for made in the strengthening of reward governance, particularly incentives, our business in the future.
and the alignment of long term incentives with our strategic goals.
the performance management process continues to deploy a robust moderation process to assess risk stewardship by all our senior executives.
Living through our Values to unlock the great potential in our business, all colleagues focus on Diversity and Inclusion our three values: putting customers first, keeping it simple and making a difference together.
A key element of achieving our vision is having a diverse and inclusive workforce: and we have made progress during 2012.
Putting customers first means thinking about whats best for customers in everything we do.
that means understanding and anticipating customers our gender programme has made strong progress with the Group needs, delivering on our promises and taking ownership to get things right two years ahead of its target of 25 per cent female representation on for every customer.
We need to ensure that what we are doing enables the Board by 2015, with 27 per cent female representation on the board our customers to get the most from their money: living this value will enable by 2015.
We also launched a role model programme across the Group.
colleagues to deliver our strategy to be the best bank for customers.
Footprints in the Snow showcases the career paths of the Groups most senior women, providing footprints and stepping stones for other women Keeping it simple means making ourselves easy to do business with, to follow, be inspired by and succeed.
and communicating clearly and openly.
our colleagues are continually identifying opportunities to simplify the things we do and work hard the Stonewall 2012 top 100 Employers for lesbian, gay and bisexual to get things right first time every time.
people placed the Group in the top 20 organisations and was named top Welsh Private Sector Employer and 2nd best Scottish Employer.
Making a difference together means working together to deliver for our Rainbow Network was also given star performer status.
customers, listening to how we can improve what we do: treating all people fairly and acting responsibly at all times: and contributing to the our disability programme was ranked joint 2nd, achieving Gold communities we serve.
We see our involvement in the work we do in Standard and named Best Private Sector Employer by the Business fundraising for charity as an important part of our contribution.
have raised 3.6 million for Save the children since the beginning of 2011.
In our ethnic diversity strategy, we delivered ten career development Programme courses to over 120 colleagues.
the programme is aimed Colleague engagement at colleagues who are looking to achieve their first management or our annual colleague Engagement Survey is an important way for us to senior management position and supports participants to achieve their find out how we are working together and how well we are building a high full potential.
the outputs provide two separate and measurable to ensure that we continue to provide one of the best packages for scores, the Employee Engagement Index EEI, which measures the working parents in the UK we introduced a number of improvements, individual motivation of colleagues, and the Performance Excellence Index which included, better advice and guidance for colleagues and line PEI, measuring how strongly colleagues believe the Group is committed managers, e-Learning modules to support new parents, and a parents to improving customer service.
forum where colleagues can connect and share experiences around working parent issues.
the most recent results highlight strong levels of engagement in some areas such as using customer feedback to improve processes and these activities are showing positive outcomes, with higher engagement providing colleagues with appropriate training to keep up with customer scores for female and ethnic minority colleagues, and some steady demands.
our PEI scores indicate that our colleagues are committed progress in closing the gap for lesbian, gay, transgender and bisexual to the Groups strategy of becoming the best bank for customers.
We will continue to build upon our progress during 2013 our EEI results show that we need to do more to engender trust in the to ensure we reflect the diverse needs of our customers, colleagues organisation and in its future.
the current economic climate, the constant and communities.
focus on the financial services sector and banks have undoubtedly contributed to a lack of confidence and trust in the organisation.
Lloyds Banking Group 26 Annual Review 2012 RELAtIoNSHIPS ANd RESPoNSIBILItY our 2013 14 charity of the Year is supporting Alzheimers Society and Alzheimer Scotlands Live Well campaign.
HoW WE ARE doING MoRE We recognise that if we are to be the best bank for our customers, we must also aim to be the best bank for communities.
By doing more to be a responsible business we are able to make a sustainable contribution to help Britain prosper.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 27 We are a major sponsor of the Business Connectors programme in partnership with Business in the community, a Prince of Wales charity.
c o M M UN I t I E S In 2012 we made a commitment to second up to 20 senior managers per year to become Business connectors working in their local communities to help One of the ways Lloyds Banking Group helps broker relationships between charities, community groups and local business, Britain prosper is by contributing positively to the with the goal of helping to build thriving communities across the UK.
Our scale and reach through Community volunteering our brands and branches means we are doing more to help communities across the UK.
Empowering our people to participate in activities that benefit their local communities during work time, helps to build pride in the bank.
our Aim Day to Make a Difference volunteering programme enables colleagues to spend one day a year volunteering for a charity or community project the aim of our community strategy is to help the UKs most disadvantaged of their choice.
over 32,000 of our colleagues registered to use their day communities prosper as a result of our financial and colleagues commitment.
We are also the largest participant in Business in the Last year the Group invested 85 million aligned to a range of flagship communitys Give & Gain day: in 2012 more than 4,500 colleagues took programmes and initiatives.
despite the challenging economic part, doubling the engagement seen in 2011. environment the Group committed to keep our investment at this level our vision for London 2012 was to inspire and support young people, for the period of its strategic plan.
communities and business all over Britain.
Part of this vision was running National School Sport Week, a week long sporting celebration for schools.
Community Programmes over 2,500 volunteered, helping to bring the excitement of London 2012 We want to build thriving communities in the UK, both with direct to their local communities.
investment and by encouraging our colleagues to support communities with their skills and knowledge.
this aim is supported by our community Funding grassroots charities programmes themed around Education, Employability and Enterprise.
Much of our charitable giving is through the Lloyds TSB and Bank of Scotland Foundations.
during 2012 the Group donated more than Education 29 million to the Foundations enabling them to make grants to local, We take seriously our responsibility to do more to raise levels of general regional and national charities across the UK.
financial capability amongst the communities we serve.
Money for Life, is an award-winning personal money management programme, targeted Funding local organisations at young people and adults in the wider Further Education, work-based the 2012 Community Fund provided grants to local community groups learning and community learning sectors.
the Group has invested that inspire and support young people.
Nominated by our colleagues, 4 million in the programme since 2009 and has committed a further 132 local organisations across the UK have won a community Fund award 4 million over the next two years.
the programme provides accredited worth 5,000 totalling 660,000. training to enable organisations ranging from citizens Advice Bureau to Housing Associations, charities and colleges to embed money management skills at a local level.
We trained 1,400 people to run money Fundraising management sessions in communities in 2012, as well as continuing colleagues from across the Group raised over 3.6 million, including the Money for Life challenge, a national competition providing 110 grants matched giving for our 2011 12 charity of the Year, Save the children.
the in 2012 to 16-24 year olds to run a money management project in funds raised will help over 12,000 children through the Families & Schools their communities.
We are already actively supporting our new charity of the Year: the Alzheimers Society and Alzheimer Scotland.
this campaign will launch the first UK wide dementia carers programme, Employability which will give 9,000 carers the information and the skills they need Lloyds Scholars, our social mobility programme aimed at UK students, to support their loved ones.
In partnership with six leading universities across the UK we offer students from lower income households a complete support package, helping them manage the financial strain of university whilst Reducing our environmental impact improving their employability.
Scholars receive a unique combination As a responsible business, we are working to reduce our own of financial support, a Lloyds Banking Group mentor, sessions to develop environmental footprint and support the UK Governments move towards their skills and the opportunity to gain valuable work experience through a low-carbon economy.
our Environmental Action Plan incorporates paid internships.
In return we ask that they volunteer for local causes, enabling programmes to reduce our impacts in the areas of energy, paper, business them to enhance their cV whilst giving back to the community.
Lloyds travel, waste and water.
Specific initiatives include no travel weeks, Scholars was named corporate Responsibility Project of the year at the embedding an enhanced dry mixed recycling process and optimisation 2012 charity times Award.
of our building controls to reduce the energy we use.
All programmes are on track to meet their 2020 targets with some Enterprises delivering early.
In January 2012 the School of Social Entrepreneurs and the bank launched the Lloyds Banking Group Social Entrepreneurs programme.
Supporting the Green Economy Supporting this programme demonstrates Lloyds Banking Groups As one of the most active participants in the Project Finance market, commitment to aiding the UKs economic recovery by enabling social Lloyds Banking Group is playing a key role in finding solutions to current entrepreneurs to realise their ambitions and thereby supporting enterprise and future funding requirements.
We currently have commitments to and strengthening communities.
renewable energy projects in the UK with capacity totalling over 1800MW.
the aim over the next five years is to help over 1,300 social entrepreneurs More detail will be available in the 2012 Responsible Business Report.
to start up or scale up their social enterprise, creating jobs across the UK and helping local communities to help themselves.
the programme offers grants of between 4,000 - 25,000 as well as a Lloyds Banking Group mentor to help them be sustainable and successful in their ideas.
Additional funding for this project is provided by the Big Lottery.
Lloyds Banking Group 28 Annual Review 2012 RISK oVERVIEW EFFEctIVE RISK MANAGEMENt ANd coNtRoL Aim Risk achievements in 2012 Significant progress has been made in reducing the risk in the business Managing risk effectively is important for any bank and fundamental in 2012 through the consistent application of our prudent approach to our strategy.
We are looking to create a more efficient, lower risk, to risk.
Key deliverables have been aligned to the delivery of our customer UK focused retail and commercial bank.
In doing this we maintain focused strategy and the four pillars of our action plan.
a conservative business model embodied by a risk culture founded on a prudent appetite for risk.
We have made good progress in reshaping the business portfolio to fit our resources, capabilities and risk appetite.
A conservative approach to, the Groups approach to risk is founded on an effective control framework and prudent appetite for risk is fully embedded across the organisation and a strong risk management culture which guides the way all employees and effective controls over the risk profile of all new business are in place.
approach their work, the way they behave and the decisions they make.
We have continued to take a disciplined approach to the management the amount and type of risk that the organisation is prepared to seek, and reduction of our non-core assets, which reduced by 42.3 billion in accept or tolerate, otherwise known as risk appetite, is driven by our the year, ahead of plan, whilst also being capital generative.
Asset sales strategy and approved by the Board.
this risk appetite is then embedded in total were within impairment provisions demonstrating the prudence within policies, authorities and limits across the Group.
of our approach to credit risk management and the adequacy of our provisioning.
the reduction of non core assets and prudent management Risk as a strategic differentiator of risk have led to significantly lower impairment, down 42 per cent, and the core Asset Quality Ratio, impairment as a percentage of average the Group strategy and risk appetite were developed together to ensure advances, at 0.44 per cent is already in line with target.
one informed the other in creating a strategy that delivers on becoming the best bank for our customers whilst helping Britain prosper and We have continued to strengthen and fide-risk the Groups balance creating sustainable growth over time.
sheet by improving our capital ratios and funding and liquidity position.
the Groups funding position has now been transformed with wholesale We believe effective risk management can be a strategic differentiator, funding of 170 billion reduced by 81 billion in the year.
At the same in particular: time we have reduced the level of short term wholesale funding which Conservative approach to risk: the Group has a fully embedded q at 51 billion now accounts for less than 30 per cent of total wholesale conservative approach to, and prudent appetite for risk with risk funding.
our liquidity position also continued to improve and our liquidity culture and appetite driven from the top.
is now greater than wholesale funding and covers short term funding by more than four times.
our core tier 1 capital ratio further increased to Strong control framework: the Group has a strong risk control q 12.0 per cent in the year and we remain confident in our capital position.
framework which is the foundation for the delivery of effective risk management.
this framework ensures appropriate engagement the complaints process has been simplified and as a result we have in developing risk appetite whilst also ensuring business units operate seen a further reduction in FSA reportable banking complaints within approved parameters.
to 1.1 per 1,000 accounts, the lowest level of any major UK bank.
this is aligned to our customer focused strategy and reduced conduct risk.
Effective risk analysis, management and reporting: Effective risk q analysis ensures the identification of opportunities as well as risks We have also continued to invest, with our Risk transformation having and ensures risks are managed appropriately and consistently with delivered improved analytics and enhanced customer support for our Retail strategy.
the Groups key risks and performance against risk appetite customers as well as simplified processes for rating the risk of commercial are monitored and reported regularly to senior management using customers.
this investment has also driven reductions in the Groups quantitative and qualitative analysis and are subject to relevant stress impairments and risk-weighted assets.
Further investment during 2012 has testing.
this ensures we fully understand the risk in the business at allowed us to keep pace with the growing range of regulatory demands, both an individual risk type and aggregate portfolio level.
the key risks and prepare for future changes required under the Banking Reform Bill to the Group are outlined on the next page.
including Ring Fencing and Recovery and Resolution planning.
Business focus and accountability: Managing risk effectively is a key q Priorities for 2013 focus for the Group and is one of the five principal criteria within the Group Balanced Scorecard on which business areas and individual continue to support delivery of the Groups customer focused q performance are judged.
the Groups approach to risk means that strategic plan within risk appetite businesses remain accountable for risk but a strong and independent continue programme of investment in the Groups risk systems q risk function also helps ensure adherence to the Groups risk and control frameworks.
continued investment in risk systems and Maintain and strengthen the Groups strong risk culture by managing q processes will also help differentiate our risk management approach.
performance to ensure risk based behaviours deliver against new regulatory requirements q continue to attract, retain and develop high quality people q Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 29 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES the most significant risks faced by the Group are detailed below.
People risk the Group has a strategic aim to be the best bank for customers.
It is Credit risk committed to addressing issues within the business that could contribute to customers receiving unfair outcomes.
the Group believes the quality, Arising in the Retail, commercial Banking, and Wealth, Asset Finance and values and engagement of its people are fundamental to successful International divisions, reflecting the risks inherent in the Groups lending delivery of this strategy.
this belief coincides with our regulators activities and, to a lesser extent in the Insurance division in respect of increasing focus on the culture which underpins the performance and investment holdings and exposures to reinsurers.
Adverse changes in behaviour of employees in the development and delivery of fair outcomes the credit quality of the Groups UK and or international borrowers and to customers.
counterparties, or in their behaviour, would be expected to reduce the value of the Groups assets and materially increase the Groups allowances for impairment losses.
Liquidity and funding risk Liquidity and funding continue to remain a key area of focus for the Group Conduct risk and the industry as a whole.
Like all major banks, the Group is dependent conduct risk and how the Group manages its customer relationships on confidence in the short and long term wholesale funding markets and affect all aspects of the Groups operations and our management of this deposit markets.
Should the Group, due to exceptional circumstances, risk is closely aligned with achievement of the Groups strategic vision to be unable to continue to source sustainable funding, its ability to fund be the best bank for customers.
As a provider of a wide range of financial its financial obligations and meet its commitments as they fall due could services products across different brands and distribution channels to an be impacted.
extremely broad and varied customer base, and as a participant in market activities, the Group faces significant conduct risks, which could result in Insurance risk selling products to customers which do not meet their needs: failure to the major sources of insurance risk are within the Insurance business and deal with a customers complaint effectively where the Group has got it the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
Insurance risk is inherent in wrong and not met customer expectations: and behaviours which do not the Insurance business and can be affected by demographic trends and meet market standards.
Insurance risks accepted relate primarily to mortality, longevity, morbidity, persistency, property and unemployment.
the Market risk primary insurance risk of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is Market risk comprises of three principal risks.
Interest rate risk this risk related to longevity.
Insurance risk has the potential to significantly impact to the Groups banking income arises from competitive pressures on the earnings and capital position of the Insurance business of the Group.
product terms in existing loans and deposits, which can restrict the Group For the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, insurance risk could in its ability to change interest rates applying to customers in response to significantly increase the cost of pension provision and impact the balance changes in interbank and central bank rates.
Equity risk this risk arises sheet of the Group.
from movements in equity market prices.
the main equity market risks arise in the insurance business companies and defined benefit pension State Funding and State Aid schemes: credit spread risk this risk arises when the market perception on behalf of HM treasury the treasury solicitor holds 39.2 per cent of of the creditworthiness of a particular counterparty changes.
the main the Groups share capital.
HM treasurys shareholding continues to be credit spread exposure arises in the insurance business, defined benefit managed without interference in day to day management decisions pension schemes and banking businesses.
however there is a risk that a change in Government priorities could result in the framework agreement currently in place being replaced leading to Operational risk interference in the operations of the Group.
the Group also continues the principal operational risks currently facing the Group are: Information to make good progress in meeting its EU State Aid commitments arising Security the risk of information leakage, loss or theft.
the threat profile from the original provision of Government support although failure to relating to this is rapidly changing: with increasingly sophisticated attacks meet EU State Aid commitments could lead to sanctions.
by cybercrime groups: It Systems the risk of loss resulting from the failure to develop, deliver or maintain effective It solutions: and customer Process the risk of process weaknesses and control deficiencies within the Groups customer facing processes as the business continues to evolve.
Non-core assets reduced A further reduction in FSA Prudent risk appetite and by 42.3 billion and our reportable banking complaints strong risk management international presence was excluding PPI to 1.1 per 1,000 resulted in a reduction of reduced in line with the accounts, a strong performance 42 per cent in the Groups Groups strategy to focus relative to our peers.
Lloyds Banking Group 30 Annual Review 2012 SUMMARY coNSoLIdAtEd INcoME StAtEMENt 2012 2011 For the year ended 31 December million million 1 Net interest income 9,075 12,698 1 other income 29,831 14,145 Total income 38,906 26,843 1 Insurance claims 18,396 6,041 Total income, net of insurance claims 20,510 20,802 operating expenses 15,931 16,250 Trading surplus 4,579 4,552 Impairment 5,149 8,094 Loss before tax 570 3,542 taxation 773 828 Loss for the year 1,343 2,714 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 84 73 Loss attributable to equity shareholders 1,427 2,787 Loss for the year 1,343 2,714 Basic loss per share 2.0 p 4.1 p Diluted loss per share 2.0 p 4.1 p 000 000 Directors emoluments 7,172 8,147 1 the Groups income statement includes substantial amounts of income and expenditure attributable to the policyholders of the Groups long-term assurance funds, which are consolidated in order to meet the requirements of accounting standards.
these amounts are volatile and can cause significant variations in total income and insurance claims: however they have no overall effect upon profit attributable to equity shareholders over the long term.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 31 SUMMARY coNSoLIdAtEd BALANcE SHEEt 2012 2011 At 31 December million million Assets cash and balances at central banks 80,298 60,722 derivatives, trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit and loss 210,540 205,523 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to customers 517,225 565,638 Loans and advances to banks 29,417 32,606 debt securities 5,273 12,470 551,915 610,714 Available-for-sale financial assets 31,374 37,406 Held-to-maturity investments 8,098 Investment properties 5,405 6,122 Intangible assets, including goodwill, and the value of in-force business 11,608 11,850 tangible fixed assets 7,342 7,673 Retirement benefit assets 1,867 1,338 other assets 24,203 21,100 Total assets 924,552 970,546 Liabilities deposits from banks 38,405 39,810 customer deposits 426,912 413,906 derivatives, trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 84,637 83,167 debt securities in issue 117,369 185,059 Insurance liabilities 83,220 79,291 Liabilities to customers under non-participating investment contracts 54,372 49,636 other liabilities 40,561 37,613 Retirement benefit obligations 300 381 Subordinated liabilities 34,092 35,089 Total liabilities 879,868 923,952 Shareholders equity 43,999 45,920 Non-controlling interests 685 674 Total equity 44,684 46,594 Total equity and liabilities 924,552 970,546 the summary financial statement, comprising the summary consolidated income statement on page 30, the summary consolidated balance sheet on page 31 and the directors remuneration commentary on page 33 was approved by the directors on 1 March 2013.
Sir Winfried Bischoff Antnio Horta-Osrio George Culmer chairman Group chief Executive Group Finance director Lloyds Banking Group 32 Annual Review 2012 AUdItoRS StAtEMENt ANd SUMMARY dIREctoRS REPoRt Independent auditors statement to Auditors report on full accounts the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc the auditors reports on the full accounts for the year ended 31 december 2012 were unqualified and did not include a statement We have examined the summary financial statement, which comprises under sections 498 2 accounting records or returns inadequate or the summary consolidated income statement on page 30 the summary accounts not agreeing with records and returns or 498 3 failure to obtain consolidated balance sheet on page 31, the summary directors report on necessary information and explanations of the UK companies Act 2006. page 32 and the directors remuneration commentary on page 33.
In addition, the auditors statement under section 496 was unqualified.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in Summary directors report accordance with applicable laws of the United Kingdom law.
the company is a holding company and its subsidiary undertakings our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the provide a wide range of banking and financial services through branches summary financial statement within the Annual Review with the annual and offices in the UK and overseas.
financial statements, the directors report, and the directors remuneration A review of the business and an indication of future developments are report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 428 given on pages 4 to 19.
Biographical details of directors are shown on of the companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and changes to the composition of the Board since 1 January 2012 up to the consider the implications for our statement if we become aware of any date of this annual review are shown below: apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Joined the Board Retired from the Board S V Weller 1 February 2012 this statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with section 428 of the G t tate 6 February 2012 companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this t J W tookey 24 February 2012 opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any Lord Leitch 29 February 2012 other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
M G culmer 16 May 2012 We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued Sir Julian Horn-Smith 17 May 2012 by the Auditing Practices Board.
our reports on the companys G R Moreno 17 May 2012 full annual financial statements describe the basis of our audit opinions Lord Blackwell 1 June 2012 on those financial statements, the directors report and the directors c J Fairbairn 1 June 2012 remuneration report.
Opinion M A Scicluna and t t Ryan, Jr will retire from the Board on 31 March 2013 In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with and 18 April 2013, respectively.
the full annual financial statements, the directors report and the directors N L Luff will be appointed to the Board on 5 March 2013. remuneration report of Lloyds Banking Group plc for the year ended Lord Blackwell, c J Fairbairn and N L Luff were, or will be, appointed to 31 december 2012 and complies with the applicable requirements the Board since the annual general meeting held in 2012 and will therefore of section 428 of the companies Act 2006, and the regulations made stand for election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
In the interests of good corporate governance and in accordance with the provisions of the UK corporate Governance code, all of the other directors will retire and those willing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
 LLP chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Particulars of the directors interests in shares in the company and London detailed information about share capital and change of control are shown 1 March 2013 in the full report and accounts.
a the maintenance and integrity of the Lloyds Banking Group website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the full annual financial statements or the summary financial statement since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 33 dIREctoRS REMUNERAtIoN Full details of the Groups remuneration policy for directors as well as As a Group we continually review our policy approach to explore ways details of their remuneration in 2012 appear in the directors remuneration in which we may strengthen and simplify the alignment of the Groups report in the full report and accounts.
this may be seen in the Investors remuneration package with the companys business performance and section of the Groups website at www.
com relative value to shareholders.
over recent years we have introduced to our bonus scheme a mandatory deferral into shares for awards made to the ongoing economic challenges currently encountered in our industry our Executive directors and for any awards in excess of a specific threshold and across all aspects of life naturally lead to continuing attention made to other staff.
From 2014 we aim to implement a restructure of being placed on executive remuneration.
As a Group we have a strong our package to more effectively recognise the connection between the belief in aligning the pay delivered to our executives with the successful impact of short-term and long-term goals in driving forward our business performance of the business and, through this, the return of value to and to further facilitate the adjustment of awards for malus.
our shareholders as set out in our 2011 Strategic Review.
to this end, we have continued to develop our performance management process, Executive directors remain expected to build a shareholding in the Group with the close participation of our Risk team, to embed meaningful equivalent to 1.5 times 2 times for the Group chief Executive gross basic challenging but responsible performance measures across our reward salary.
the shareholding guidelines have been updated in 2012 and we are structure, which reflect Group and divisional achievement in addition to considering extending these to a broader population in the future.
In order to further align reward to the longer-term, the fees of the independent Non-Executive directors are set within a sustainable success of the business we plan to introduce changes to our total amount agreed by the shareholders.
they may also receive fees, annual incentive scheme from 2014 to better connect the interests of agreed by the Board, for membership of Board committees.
the fees colleagues with shareholders and to ensure a fair distribution between are designed to recognise the responsibilities of a Non-Executive all stakeholders of the benefits which result from the Group meeting its directors role and to attract individuals with relevant skills, knowledge and performance targets.
the fees are neither performance related nor pensionable In setting our reward policy we endeavour to keep the structure as simple and are comparable with those paid by other companies.
the chairmans as possible and to clearly communicate the aims of the policy to our salary remains unchanged at 700,000 per annum.
We believe that transparency around Summary of emoluments paid to Directors our policy and the basis for our performance measures is critical to 2012 2011 rebuilding trust with our employees and our numerous stakeholders.
this 000 000 has been evident in the annual disclosures we make to explain our policy Aggregate emoluments paid to directors 7,172 8,147 approach to remuneration and the actions we undertake to implement this.
We support the new proposals made by the department for Aggregate gains made by directors on exercise Business, Innovation and Skills BIS to codify and standardise additional of share options 342 reporting expectations in this area.
Aggregate value of assets receivable under long-term incentive schemes 46 central to the BIS proposals is the active engagement of shareholders to approve the remuneration policy applied by the Group.
We maintain an open Aggregate company contributions in respect and transparent exchange of information and feedback with our shareholders of directors to defined contribution pension and acknowledge the weight of their judgment in setting our policies.
schemes 23 167 the Group firmly believes that fixed pay should be positioned Number of directors with retirement competitively but conservatively against the market and that the variable benefits accruing under: pay offered to our executives should be directly aligned to the delivery of defined contribution schemes 2 4 value to our shareholders.
Although shareholder return and operational defined benefit schemes 2 effectiveness have been very positive over the course of the year, it is appropriate that the fixed pay elements for our directors should remain unchanged for a further twelve months in recognition of the continuing Performance graph economic climate and the need to deliver further, sustained economic growth to our shareholders.
the graph below illustrates the performance of the Group measured by tSR against a broad equity market index over the past five years.
In addition, bonus awards across the Group in respect of the 2012 year have the Group has been a constituent of the FtSE 100 index throughout this been determined conservatively against the robust performance measures five year period.
the awards will be deferred into shares for varying periods according to the seniority or role of the individual with attached malus provisions to Total shareholder return FTSE 100 index enable adjustment where such awards are subsequently considered not Lloyds Banking Group plc FTSE 100 index to appropriately reflect performance in the period to which they relate.
the assessment of the value of bonus pool to be made available has been Dec 2007 Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 undertaken in consideration of our relative, risk-adjusted performance for 150 the year and with a focus on ensuring that the reward is weighted towards our more junior staff to recognise their contribution towards the Group 125 achieving success against our strategic goals.
100 our Long term Incentive Plan retains its importance in aligning our reward strategy to the performance of the business.
through the application of 75 carefully considered, stretching target measures, we are able to ensure that awards are forfeited or restricted where performance does not meet 50 the desired level.
We also require executives to retain the net shares 25 ie.
after the deduction of tax awarded under the LtIP for a minimum period following receipt.
this directly connects the financial reward for the 0 executive and senior management team with the growth and prosperity Rebased to 100 on 31 December 2007.
Source: Deloitte of the company and motivates them to demonstrate appropriate behaviours across all areas of the business.
Lloyds Banking Group 34 Annual Review 2012 BoARd oF dIREctoRS NoN-ExEcUtIVE dIREct oRS Sir Winfried Bischoff David Roberts deputy chairman chairman Independent director chairman of the Nomination & Governance chairman of the Risk committee.
Member of the Remuneration of the Audit committee, the Remuneration committee and the Risk committee committee and the Nomination Joined the Board in September 2009 & Governance committee Age: 71 Joined the Board in March 2010 Age: 50 Skills and experience: Sir Winfried has substantial experience of leading complex Skills and experience: david has many years experience at board and executive international boards in the UK, Asia and the US.
His background spans a range of sectors, management level in retail and commercial banking in the UK and internationally.
As chair including banking and capital markets, finance and government regulation and public of the Risk committee, he has a deep understanding of risk management, underpinned policy.
Sir Winfried is a highly respected leader with the proven experience and by recent, in-depth knowledge of all aspects of banking operations.
davids valuable judgement to lead the Board of Lloyds Banking Group.
contributions to the deliberations of the Board and committee meetings, combined with natural leadership qualities, make david an effective deputy chairman.
External appointments: Sir Winfried is a Non-Executive director of Eli Lilly and company and the McGraw Hill companies Inc.
He is chairman of the Advisory External appointments: david is the Non-executive chairman of the Mind Gym.
council of thecityUK and a Member of the Akbank International Advisory Board.
Former appointments: david joined Barclays in 1983 and held various senior Former appointments: Sir Winfried was appointed chairman of citigroup Europe in management positions culminating in Executive director, member of the Group 2000.
He became the acting chief Executive officer of citigroup Inc. in 2007 and was Executive committee and chief Executive, International Retail and commercial Banking, subsequently appointed as chairman in the same year until his retirement in February a position which he held until december 2006.
He is a former Non-Executive director 2009.
Prior to this, he was the Group chief Executive and then chairman of Schroders.
of BAA and Absa Group and was chairman and chief Executive of BAWAG P. S. K. AG.
Lord Blackwell Carolyn Fairbairn Independent director Independent director Member of the Audit committee Member of the Audit committee and the Risk committee and the Remuneration committee chairman of Scottish Widows Group Joined the Board on 1 June 2012 Joined the Board on 1 June 2012 Age: 52 Age: 60 Skills and experience: Lord Blackwell has in-depth insurance, banking, regulatory and public Skills and experience: carolyn has extensive digital and on-line, Government and regulatory policy experience gained from senior positions in a wide range of industries.
He has the experience gained across a range of sectors including media and financial services.
With her knowledge and experience to contribute effectively as a Non-Executive director and lead the broad experience and strong analytical mind, carolyn plays an active part in reviewing the Board of Scottish Widows Group.
strategy of the Board and contributing to the debate at Board and committee meetings.
External appointments: Lord Blackwell is the chairman of Interserve plc.
He is a Non-Executive External appointments: carolyn is a Non-Executive director of the Vitec Group and director of ofcom and Halma plc and a member of the Board of the centre for Policy Studies.
a member of its Audit, Nominations and Remuneration committees.
In January 2012, she was appointed a trustee of Marie curie cancer care.
Former appointments: Lord Blackwell is a former Senior Independent director of Standard Life and chaired their UK Life and Pensions Board.
He was a Non-Executive director of Former appointments: carolyn was a Non-Executive director of the Financial Services dixons Group and SEGRo and a Non-Executive Member of the office of Fair trading.
He was Authority and chaired their Risk committee, a director of Group development and a partner of McKinsey & co. and a director of Group development at NatWest Group.
From Strategy at ItV plc and director of Strategy and a member of the Executive Board at 1995 to 1997, Lord Blackwell was Head of the Prime Ministers Policy Unit and was appointed the BBc.
She is a former partner of McKinsey & co. and was a policy adviser in the a Life Peer in 1997.
carolyn began her career as an Economist at the World Bank.
Anita Frew Nicholas Luff Independent director Independent director Member of the Audit committee Member of the Audit committee and and the Risk committee Risk committee with effect from 5 March 2013. chairman of the Audit committee Joined the Board in december 2010 with effect from 1 April 2013 Age: 55 Joining the Board on 5 March 2013 Age: 45 Skills and experience: Anita has extensive board, financial and general management Skills and experience: Nick has significant financial experience in the UK listed experience across a range of sectors, including banking, asset management, environment having served in a number of senior finance positions within a range of manufacturing and utilities.
Her breadth of experience and strong leadership qualities sectors.
His background and experience enables him to fulfil the role of Audit committee make her an effective Non-Executive director.
chair and for SEc purposes the role of Audit committee Financial Expert.
External appointments: Anita is the chairman of Victrex plc, having previously been External appointments: Nick is the Group Finance director of centrica.
its Senior Independent director, and is the Senior Independent director of Aberdeen Former appointments: Nick was previously the Finance director of the Peninsular Asset Management.
She is a Non-Executive director of IMI.
& oriental Steam Navigation company and chief Financial officer of P&o Princess Former appointments: Anita was an Executive director of Abbott Mead Vickers, cruises plc.
Until december 2010, he served as a Non-Executive director and was the director of corporate development at WPP Group and a Non-Executive director of Audit committee chair of QinetiQ Group.
Nick started his career with KPMG where Northumbrian Water.
She has held various investment and marketing roles at Scottish he qualified as a chartered accountant in 1991.
Provident and the Royal Bank of Scotland.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 35 NoN-ExEcUtIVE dIREct oRS T Timothy Ryan, Jr Martin Scicluna Independent director Independent director Until 18 April 2013 Until 31 March 2013 Member of the Remuneration committee chairman of the Audit committee.
and the Risk committee Member of the Risk committee and Nomination & Governance committee Joined the Board in March 2009 Joined the Board in September 2008 Age: 67 Age: 62 Skills and experience: tim is a senior investment banker with international board and Skills and experience: Martin has significant finance experience.
He was with management experience and a strong background in the US government sector.
tim deloitte for 34 years including 26 years as an Audit Partner serving a number of brings an international perspective to the Board with a strong focus on financial markets FtSE100 companies.
His background and experience enables him to fulfil the role and securities, government relations and international emerging best practice.
of Audit committee chair and for SEc purposes the role of Audit committee Financial Expert.
External appointments: tim is the Global Head of Regulatory Strategy and Policy at JP Morgan.
He is a director of the Great-West Life Insurance co. Power corporation External appointments: Martin is the chairman of RSA Insurance Group and of canada and Power Financial corp. Great Portland Estates and a Governor of Berkhamsted School.
Former appointments: tim was the President and chief Executive of the Securities Industry Former appointments: Martin was a member of the Board of Partners of deloitte UK and Financial Markets Association and a director in the office of thrift Supervision, US from 1991 to 2007 and served as its chairman from 1995.
He joined the firm in 1973 department of the treasury.
He is a former director of Koram Bank, the International Foundation and was a partner from 1982 until he retired in 2008.
Martin was a member of the Board of Election Systems and the US-Japan Foundation.
He held a number of senior appointments in of directors of deloitte touche tohmatsu from 1999 to 2007.
JP Morgan chase including Vice chairman, Financial Institutions and Governments.
tim was also a member of the Global Markets Advisory committee for the National Intelligence council.
Anthony Watson, CBE Sara Weller Senior Independent director Independent director chairman of the Remuneration committee.
Member of the Remuneration committee Member of the Audit committee, and the Risk committee the Risk committee and the Nomination Joined the Board on 1 February 2012 & Governance committee Age: 51 Joined the Board in April 2009 Age: 67 Skills and experience: tony has over 40 years experience in the investment management Skills and experience: With a background in retail and associated sectors, including industry and related sectors.
As Senior Independent director and chair of the Remuneration financial services, Sara brings a broad perspective to the Board.
She is a strong committee, he ensures close and regular dialogue with shareholders with the aim of better advocate of customers and of the application of new technology, both of which aligning executive reward with shareholder interests.
His former experience as chief Executive directly support Lloyds Banking Groups strategy.
Sara has considerable experience of Hermes Pensions Management places him in an ideal position to carry out these roles.
of boards at both executive and non-executive level.
External appointments: tony is a Non-Executive director of Vodafone Group.
He is the External appointments: Sara is a Non-Executive director of United Utilities Group Senior Independent director of Hammerson and Witan Investment trust and chairman and chair of their Remuneration committee.
of the Lincolns Inn Investment committee and Marks & Spencer trustees.
Former appointments: Sara is the former Managing director of Argos.
She held Former appointments: tony is the former chief Executive of Hermes Pensions various senior positions at J Sainsbury including deputy Managing director and Management.
He was also formerly chairman of the Asian Infrastructure Fund, served on its Board between January 2002 and May 2004.
She was a Non-Executive MEPc and of the Strategic Investment Board Northern Ireland.
He was a member director of Mitchells & Butler and also held senior management roles for Abbey of the Financial Reporting council and a member of the Norges Bank Investment National and Mars confectionery.
ExEcUtIVE dIREct oRS Antnio Horta-Osrio George Culmer Group chief Executive Group Finance director Appointed Group chief Executive Joined the Board on 16 May 2012 in March 2011 Age: 50 Joined the Board in January 2011 Age: 49 Skills and experience: Antnio brings extensive experience in, and understanding Skills and experience: George has deep operational and financial expertise of, both retail and commercial banking.
this has been built over a period of more including strategic and financial planning and control.
He has worked in financial services than 25 years, working both internationally as well as in the UK.
Antnios drive, in the UK and overseas for over 20 years.
With a strong background in insurance and enthusiasm and commitment to customers, along with his proven ability to build shareholder advocacy, his skills and experience enhance the Board and strengthen and lead strong management teams, brings significant value to all stakeholders further the senior management team.
External appointments: Antnio is a Non-Executive director of Fundao Former appointments: George was an Executive director and chief Financial champalimaud and Sociedade Francisco Manuel dos Santos in Portugal and a Governor officer of RSA Insurance Group.
He is also the former Head of capital Management of the London Business School.
of Zurich Financial Services and chief Financial officer of its UK operations.
George Former appointments: Antnio joined Grupo Santander in 1993 and held various previously held various senior management positions at Prudential.
senior management positions culminating in Executive Vice President of Grupo Santander and a member of its Management committee.
In November 2004 he was appointed as a Non-Executive director of Santander UK and from August 2006 until November 2010, served as its chief Executive.
Antnio is also a former Non-Executive director of the court of the Bank of England.
Claire A Davies company Secretary Lloyds Banking Group 36 Annual Review 2012 SUMMARY oF GRoUP RESULtS Management basis segmental analysis Wealth, Asset Group Commercial Finance and Operations and Retail Banking International Insurance Central items Group 2012 m m m m m m Net interest income 7,195 2,206 799 78 213 10,335 other income 1,462 2,932 2,043 2,294 315 8,416 Insurance claims 365 365 Total underlying income, net of insurance claims 8,657 5,138 2,842 1,851 102 18,386 total costs 4,199 2,516 2,291 744 332 10,082 Impairment 1,270 2,946 1,480 1 5,697 Underlying profit loss 3,188 324 929 1,107 435 2,607 Asset sales 464 196 3,207 2,547 Volatile items 138 886 748 Liability management 229 229 Fair value unwind 482 888 51 42 627 650 Management profit loss 3,670 238 1,176 1,065 1,030 4,827 Banking net interest margin 2.08% 1.58% 1.65% 1.93% Impairment as a percentage of average advances 0.36% 1.85% 3.12% 1.02% Return on risk-weighted assets 3.21% 0.18 % 2.31 % 0.78% Key balance sheet items At 31 December 2012 bn bn bn bn bn bn Loans and advances to customers excluding reverse repos 343.3 134.7 33.4 0.7 512.1 customer deposits excluding repos 260.8 109.7 51.9 0.1 422.5 total customer balances 604.1 244.4 85.3 0.8 934.6 Risk-weighted assets 95.5 165.2 36.2 13.4 310.3 Wealth, Asset Group commercial Finance and operations and Retail Banking International Insurance central items Group 2011 m m m m m m Net interest income 7,497 3,192 1,003 67 585 12,210 other income 1,660 2,806 2,230 2,687 204 9,179 Insurance claims 343 343 total underlying income, net of insurance claims 9,157 5,998 3,233 2,277 381 21,046 total costs 4,438 2,600 2,414 812 357 10,621 Impairment 1,970 4,210 3,604 3 9,787 Underlying profit loss 2,749 812 2,785 1,465 21 638 Asset sales 48 61 21 196 284 Volatile items 736 2 738 Liability management 1,295 1,295 Fair value unwind 839 1,562 122 43 1,274 1,206 Management profit loss 3,636 75 2,684 1,422 236 2,685 Banking net interest margin 2.09% 1.86% 1.72% 2.07% Impairment as a percentage of average advances 0.54% 2.32% 6.48% 1.62% Return on risk-weighted assets 2.56% 0.39 % 5.82 % 0.17% Key balance sheet items At 31 december 2011 bn bn bn bn bn bn Loans and advances to customers excluding reverse repos 352.8 155.7 40.2 0.1 548.8 customer deposits excluding repos 247.1 116.7 41.7 0.4 405.9 total customer balances 599.9 272.4 81.9 0.5 954.7 Risk-weighted assets 103.2 192.9 43.6 12.6 352.3 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2012 37 SHAREHoLdER INFoRMAtIoN Annual report and accounts Share dealing facilities this annual review, including the summary financial statements and Lloyds Banking Group offers shareholders a choice of three summary directors report contained within, is only a summary of dealing services: information derived from the Lloyds Banking Group annual accounts Bank of Scotland Share dealing and the directors remuneration report and does not provide sufficient Internet dealing.
co. uk information to allow as full an understanding of the results and state of telephone dealing.
call 0845 606 1188 affairs of Lloyds Banking Group as would be provided by the full report and accounts.
Shareholders who would like more detailed information Halifax Share dealing may obtain a copy of the full report and accounts, and also elect to receive Internet dealing.
co. uk all future report and accounts, by contacting our Registrars, Equiniti telephone dealing.
the report and accounts is also available on our website, www.
com Shareholders in the Lloyds Banking Group Shareholder Account can only trade by telephone through the Halifax Share dealing Service.
Annual general meeting the annual general meeting will be held at 11.00 am on thursday Bank of Scotland Share dealing and Halifax Share dealing internet services 16 May 2013 at the Edinburgh International conference centre, are available 24 7 and telephone services are available between the Exchange, Edinburgh, EH3 8EE.
Further details about the meeting, 8.00 am and 9.15 pm, Monday to Friday and 9.00 am to 1.00 pm on including the proposed resolutions, can be found in our notice of annual Saturday.
to open a share dealing account with either of these services, general meeting which is sent to all shareholders who have requested you must be 18 years of age or over and be resident in the UK, Jersey, paper copy documents.
It is also available on our website Guernsey or the Isle of Man.
com Lloyds tSB Share dealing Shareholder enquiries Internet dealing.
com the companys share register and the Lloyds Banking Group Shareholder telephone dealing.
call 0845 60 60 560 Account are maintained by Equiniti Limited.
contact them using the Internet services are available 24 7 and telephone services are available details below if you have enquiries about your shareholding, including: between 8.00 am and 6.00 pm, Monday to Friday.
details of any dealing change of name or address: costs are available when you log on to the share dealing website or when Loss of share certificate: and you call the above number.
to open a Lloyds tSB Share dealing Account, you must be 18 years of age or over and be resident in the UK, the dividend information, including loss of dividend warrant or tax voucher.
channel Islands or the Isle of Man.
Equiniti Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6dA the company provides a number of options for investing in Lloyds Banking Group shares through an ISA.
For details contact: telephone 0871 384 2990 Bank of Scotland Share dealing, Halifax Share dealing or textphone 0871 384 2255 Lloyds tSB Share dealing.
overseas 44 0 121 415 7066 American Depositary Receipts ADRs telephone lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
Lloyds Banking Group shares are traded in the USA through a New York calls to 0871 numbers are charged at 8p per minute plus network Stock Exchange-listed sponsored AdR facility, with the Bank of New York extras.
calls from outside the United Kingdom are charged at applicable Mellon as the depositary.
the AdRs are traded on the New York Stock international rates.
the call prices we have quoted were correct in Exchange under the symbol LYG.
the cUSIP number is 539439109 and February 2013. the ratio of AdRs to ordinary shares is 1:4.
Online portfolio management and enquiries For details contact: Equiniti operates a web based enquiry and portfolio management service.
BNY Mellon depositary Receipts, Po Box 43006 Visit www.
co. uk for details on how to register to access the Providence, RI 02940-3006 following facilities: telephone 1-866-259-0336 US toll free, register your preferred format for receiving company communications: international callers: 1 201-680-6825.
com or register your proxy appointment or voting instructions: email shrrelations@bnymellon.
com update your address details directly: and choose your preferred contact methods via email, phone or in writing.
Share sale fraud Lloyds Banking Group has been made aware of an increasing number of You may also visit help.
co. uk where you can register an enquiry share sale frauds being reported by listed companies.
this involves bogus via email, find answers to frequently asked questions and access useful stockbrokers, usually based overseas, cold calling people to: fact sheets, guidance notes and downloadable forms.
pressure them into buying shares that promise high returns: or Share price information offer to buy their shares at an inflated price claiming that there is a Shareholders can access both the latest and historical share prices via secret takeover or merger.
this is followed by a request for an upfront our website, www.
com, as well as listings in most cash bond to commit to the deal.
For a real time buying or selling price, you will need to contact a stockbroker or you can contact the sharedealing providers In reality, the shares or secret information are either worthless or detailed below.
non-existent and if you receive such a call, we strongly recommend that you seek independent investment advice from an FSA authorised adviser before you take any action.
If you are concerned that you may have been targeted by such a scheme, please contact the FSA consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234, www.
Head office 25 Gresham Street London Ec2V 7HN telephone 44 0 20 7626 1500 Registered office the Mound Edinburgh EH1 1YZ Registered in Scotland no Sc95000 Internet www.
com Forward looking statements this annual review contains forward looking statements with respect to the business, strategy and plans of the Lloyds Banking Group and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition and performance.
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the Group or its directors and or managements beliefs and expectations, are forward looking statements.
By their nature, forward looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that will or may occur in the future.
the Groups actual future business, strategy, plans and or results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward looking statements as a result of a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including, without limitation: UK domestic and global economic and business conditions: the ability to derive cost savings and other benefits including, without limitation, as a result of the integration of HBoS and the Groups simplification programme: the ability to access sufficient funding to meet the Groups liquidity needs: changes to the Groups credit ratings: risks concerning borrower or counterparty credit quality: instability in the global financial markets, including Eurozone instability and the impact of any sovereign credit rating downgrade or other sovereign financial issues: market related risks including, without limitation, changes in interest rates and exchange rates: changing demographic and market related trends: changes in customer preferences: changes to laws, regulation, accounting standards or taxation, including changes to regulatory capital or liquidity requirements: the policies and actions of governmental or regulatory authorities in the UK, the European Union, or jurisdictions outside the UK, including other European countries and the US: the implementation of the draft EU crisis management framework directive and banking reform following the recommendations made by the Independent commission on Banking: the ability to attract and retain senior management and other employees: requirements or limitations imposed on the Group as a result of HM treasurys investment in the Group: the ability to complete satisfactorily the disposal of certain assets as part of the Groups Ec state aid obligations: the extent of any future impairment charges or write-downs caused by depressed asset valuations, market disruptions and illiquid markets: exposure to regulatory scrutiny, legal proceedings, regulatory investigations or complaints, the effects of competition and the actions of competitors, including non-bank financial services and lending companies, and other factors.
Please refer to the latest Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the US Securities and Exchange commission for a discussion of certain factors together with examples of forward looking statements.
the forward looking statements contained in this annual review are made as at the date of this annual review, and the Group undertakes no obligation to update any of its forward looking statements.
