110 Shareholder information London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Market structures To understand all the services offered by a diversied exchange business, it is important to be aware of both the process of trading financial instruments, and the various trading platforms available within the EU.
With an effective date of introduction of November 2007, the EUs Markets in Financial Instruments Directive sought to increase competition and consumer protection in investment services.
Information provided here focuses on two main areas: The process of trading Process Explanation LSE Groups involvement Electronic trading Computerised systems for matching Equities London and buy and sell orders of financial Italian trading platforms instruments, such as equities, and Turquoise panbonds andderivatives.
European trading ETFs, ETCs London and Italian trading platforms Bonds MTS, MOT andORB Derivatives Turquoise, IDEM andIDEX Clearing After a trade has been matched by a CC&G acts as a CCP tradingsystem, it is usually cleared.
At for Italian cash equities, this stage, a central counterparty CCP derivatives and fixed may stand between the buyer andseller.
CC&G also By simultaneously buying from the seller, provides non-guaranteed and selling to the buyer, the CCP reduces clearing processing the counterparty risk to both parties.
functions for London Stock This is because ifone party defaults, Exchange equities and the CCP will still ensure that the trade Turquoisederivatives.
is completed with the other party.
Settlement Settlement is the process of delivering Monte Titoli operates the title to the financial instrument to X-TRM and EXPRESS II the buyer against payment to the systems, which cover seller.
For equities, this normally Italian pre-settlement and takes place three days after the trade.
settlement, creating netted Netted settlement reduces a large settlement instructions, number of positions to a single position making the actual payments payment.
Settlement operates both and deliveringsecurities.
for transactions through a trading system and those completed over the counter OTC.
Custody A custodian or Central Securities Monte Titoli provides Depositary undertakes the Italian custody services safekeeping and administration for financial instruments of securities on behalf of issuers such as equities and bonds, and investors.
whether dematerialised or in paper form.
fide-materialised securities are those that can be held without the need for papercertificates.
Post Trade Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Shareholder information Annual Report 2012 111 Trading under MiFID Explanation Attributes LSE Groups involvement Exchange model Traded through trading Regulated Trading platforms for trading platforms run by an operator Order driven offered by the London of a RegulatedMarket.
Neutral Stock Exchange and Transparent Borsa Italiana, including Liquid securities listed and or Widest stock coverage admitted to trading on the Widest client base Groups primarymarkets On exchange business done Telephone trading On exchange trade off order book and reported reporting and publication to a Regulated Market.
MTF MiFID allowed for the setting Regulated MTF services provided up of Multilateral Trading Order driven through Turquoise and Facilities, new pan-European Neutral Euro MTS trading ventures thereby Transparent promoting venue choice.
Can include dark Trading is mainly of securities pool trading see below listed on the primary market of a regulatedexchange.
OTC Over-the-counter bilateral Regulated participants OTC trade reporting market conducted through Large or block trades and publication services electronic systems or by Way to trade less telephone.
Electronically liquid stocks connected market consisting of dealers who are inconstant contact, thereby facilitating trading directly between twoparties.
What is dark pool trading?
Private trading networks within Europe these are MTFs developed to enable the internal matching oforders between buyers and sellers without being visible until the trade is complete, thereby creating aregulated environment in which to execute larger trades.
Turquoise, the Groups pan-European MTF provides a dark pool service, as well as Lit trading whereby traders can see potential buy and sell orders in advance.
Brokers also operate OTC dark pools.
