74 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and accounting policies Recent accounting developments The Companys and Groups consolidated financial statements The following standards and interpretations have been issued by are prepared in accordance with International Financial the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting and have been adopted in these financial statements: Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed IAS 24 revised, Related party disclosures effective for annual by the European Union, and with those parts of the Companies periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011: Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
IFRIC 14, Pre-payments of a Minimum Funding Requirement The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011: convention as modified by the revaluation of assets and liabilities IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments held at fair value, including those of the central counterparty effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010: and CCP clearing business of the Groups subsidiary Cassa di IFRS various Annual improvements 2011.
Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CC&G, and on the basis The adoption of these standards did not have a material impact of the Groups accountingpolicies.
on these consolidated financial statements.
The Group uses a columnar format for the presentation of its Accounting policies consolidated income statement.
This enables the Group to aid Income Statement the readers understanding of its results by presenting profit for Revenue the year before goodwill impairment, amortisation of purchased Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received intangible assets and non-recurring items.
This is the profit measure or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and used to calculate adjusted earnings per share and is considered services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, to be the most appropriate as it best reflects the Groups underlying, VAT and other sales related taxes.
recurring cash earnings and is the primary measure of performance monitored by the Groups Executive Committee.
Profit before Revenue is recognised in the period when the service or supply acquisition impairment and amortisation, and non-recurring is provided.
The sources of revenue are: items is reconciled to profit before taxation on the face of the a Maintenance contracts, membership and other fees revenue incomestatement.
is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period to which Consolidation the fee relates: The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial b Admission fees revenue is recognised at the time of admission statements of the Company and its subsidiaries with all interto trading: company balances and transactions eliminated, together with the Groups attributable share of the results of associates and joint c Royalties revenue is recognised at the earlier of cash receipt or ventures.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included the date at which they are earned or measurable with certainty: in the income statement up to, or from, the date that control passes.
d IT products where there is no significant service obligation As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the the revenue is recognised upon delivery and acceptance of the Companys income statement has not been included in these software or hardware by the customer: financial statements.
The Companys income for the year is disclosed within the statement of changes in equity.
e IT solutions where software is sold requiring significant modification, integration or customisation, the consideration Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for is allocated between the different elements on a fair value basis.
The Groups investments in joint ventures Revenue is recognised using a percentage of completion method.
and associates are initially recognised at cost, and its share of profits The stage of completion is determined by reference to the costs or losses after tax from joint ventures and associates is included in incurred to date as a proportion of the total estimated costs or the consolidated income statement.
Cumulative post-acquisition the services performed to date as a percentage of total services movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the to be performed.
Provision is made for all foreseeable future investment in the Groups balance sheet.
The financial statements losses in the period in which they are identified: of joint ventures and associates are used by the Group to apply the equity method, under which the Groups income statement reflects f Software and Licence fees revenue is recognised when the the Groups share of the results of operations of the associates.
performance under the contract has occurred and the revenue A company is considered an associate where the Group has has been earned: and asignificant influence.
g Other all other revenue is recognised in the month in which The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase the service is provided.
In interim reports, Borsa Italiana group method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate defers some of the income received from cash trading and of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities FTSE MIB futures trading and clearing.
This deferral results in incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group revenues being recognised at the average price of transactions in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Adjustments to fair values forecast for the full year, as pricing levels reduce during the include those made to bring accounting policies into line with year when incremental volume targets are achieved.
Non-recurring items The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with nonItems of income and expense that are material by size and or controlling interests through the economic entity model.
nature and are non-recurring are classified as non-recurring items Acquisitions of shares from non-controlling interests result in the on the face of the income statement within their relevant category.
difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share The separate reporting of these items together with impairment acquired of the carrying value of the net assets of the subsidiary of goodwill and amortisation of purchased intangible assets being recognised in equity.
helps give an indication of the Groups underlying performance.
Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment when events indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable and are accounted for in the Companys financial statements at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 75 Pension costs Recurring fees and charges levied on committed bank facilities The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution and the payments and cash management transactions and services pension schemes.
For the defined benefit schemes the service provided by the Groups banks are charged to the income statement cost, representing benefits accruing to employees, is included as as accrued.
Credit facility arrangement fees are capitalised and then an operating expense and the expected return on scheme assets amortised back to the income statement over the term of the facility and interest cost from unwinding of the discount on scheme subject to protected utilisation.
If a facility is deemed unlikely to be obligations are included as finance income and finance expense drawn over its life the arrangement fees will be charged immediately respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience to the income statement.
Fees and charges are included within other adjustments, changes in actuarial assumptions or differences finance costs.
between actual and expected returns on assets are recognised Fair value gains and losses on financial instruments includes the at each period end net of tax in the statement of comprehensive movement in the market valuations of derivative instruments held income.
The net asset or liability recognised on the balance sheet as fair value hedges.
comprises the difference between the present value of pension obligations and the fair value of scheme assets.
For defined Balance Sheet contribution schemes, the expense is charged to the Income Property, plant and equipment Statement as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment are included in the financial statements at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision Share based compensation for impairment.
The Group operates a number of equity settled share based compensation plans for employees.
The charge to the income Freehold buildings, fixed plant and plant and equipment are stated statement is determined by the fair value of the options granted at cost and are depreciated to residual value on a straight line basis or shares awarded at the date of grant and recognised over the over the estimated useful economic lives of the assets which are relevant vesting period.
asfollows: Foreign currencies a Freehold buildings 33 to 50 years: The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, b Fixed plant five to 20 years: and which is the Companys presentation and functional currency.
Foreign currency transactions are converted into the functional c Plant and equipment three to 15 years.
currency using the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Leasehold properties and improvements are included at cost and Foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from the settlement depreciated to residual value over the shorter of the period of the of such transactions and from the translation at year-end rates of lease or the useful economic life of the asset.
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Translation differences Leases on non-monetary items, such as equities or bonds held at fair value Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of through profit or loss, are reported as part of their fair value gain ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating or loss.
Exceptions to this are where the non-monetary items form leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the part of the net investment in a foreign operation or are designated income statement on a straight-line basis.
Lease incentives are as hedges of a net investment, or as cash flow hedges.
Such spread over the term of the lease.
exchange differences are initially recognised in equity.
The Group leases certain plant and equipment where the Group The results and financial position of all Group entities that have has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
These are afunctional currency different from the presentation currency classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the are converted into the presentation currency as follows: leases commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
a assets and liabilities including goodwill, purchased intangible assets and fair value adjustments are converted at the closing Each lease payment is apportioned between the finance charge balance sheet rate: and the liability so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The plant and equipment acquired under b income and expenses are translated and recorded in the finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life income statement at the average monthly rates prevailing: and of the asset and the lease term.
c all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate Due to the immaterial value of finance leases within the Group, component of equity.
they are not disclosed separately within the accounts.
On consolidation, exchange differences arise from the translation Intangible assets of the net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowing Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries represents the and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such excess of consideration paid over the fair value of the Groups share investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign of net identifiable assets purchased.
It is not amortised but is tested operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences for impairment annually and when there are indications that the that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income carrying value may not be recoverable, and is carried at cost less statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Finance income and expense On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the Finance income and expense comprises interest earned on cash assets and liabilities acquired.
These may include brand names, deposited with financial counterparties and interest paid on customer relationships, licences and software intellectual property, borrowings which reflect the agreed market-based or contractual all of which are recorded as intangible assets and held at cost less rate for each transaction undertaken during the financial year.
These assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives, which do not normally exceed 25 years or the term of the licence.
The amortisation period and method are reviewed and adjusted, as appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
76 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Third party software costs for the development and implementation Financial assets and liabilities of the central counterparty of systems which enhance the services provided by the Group are CCP business capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful economic Assets and liabilities of the CCP clearing service relate to CC&G, lives of three years.
the subsidiary that performs the CCP clearing business.
CC&G clears financial derivatives, equities and bond transactions on Internal product development expenditure is capitalised if the costs Italian regulated markets, guaranteeing the successful receipt can be reliably measured, the product or process is technically and or delivery of securities for the transactions to be settled on both commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the sale and purchase side of transactions with the respective the Group has sufficient resources to complete the development counterparties.
It enters into a contractual arrangement in and to use or sell the asset.
The assets are recorded at cost including respect of each side of the transaction, bears the counterparty risk labour, directly attributable costs and any third party expenses, associated with the counterparties honouring their obligations and, and amortised over useful economic lives of three years.
in the event of a failure to deliver by any counterparty, is required Current and deferred taxation itself to complete delivery of the appropriate securities.
Accordingly, The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax CC&G must record an asset and a liability on its balance sheet in laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in respect of each of the sale and purchase sides of each transaction.
the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and However, except in respect of failed transactions CC&G as a CCP generate taxable income.
clearer does not bear any price risk and the value of the sale and purchase side of each transaction are the same: consequently, the Full provision is made, using the liability method, for temporary principal CCP asset and liability amounts largely match each other.
differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred Income recognised through the CCP clearing business includes taxation is determined using tax rates that are substantially enacted net treasury income earned on margin and default funds held as at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the asset part of our risk management process and is shown separately from is realised or liability settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised the Group revenues.
This amount has been shown separately on to the extent it is probable that they will be recoverable against the face of the income statement to distinguish the income stream future taxable profits.
from those arising from the Groups other activities and provide the reader with agreater understanding of the operating activities Classification of financial assets of theGroup.
Financial assets excluding clearing business The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: Accounting treatments of CCP financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale and loans include the following: and receivables.
The classification depends on the purpose for a Derivatives, trading assets and liabilities which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
These transactions are initially recorded at fair value, which coincides with the market value of the open positions on the IDEM a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and IDEX derivatives markets in which CC&G operates as CCP, Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial and are subsequently re-measured on the basis of the market price assets held for liquidity purposes and are initially recognised at of each derivative instrument at the period end.
Since the asset and fair value and any subsequent changes in fair value are recognised liability positions of the CCP clearer are matched, the same amount directly in the income statement.
These assets are financial is recorded for both the assets and liabilities and no fair value gains instruments not designated as hedges.
or losses are recognised in the income statement.
b Available-for-sale financial assets b Receivables for and liabilities under repurchase transactions Investments other than term deposits and interests in joint These represent repurchase transactions repos by clearing ventures, associates and subsidiaries are designated as available members in the bond market using CC&Gs clearing and for sale and are recorded on trade date at fair value plus transaction guarantee service.
They represent the value of transactions costs with changes in fair value recognised in equity.
Where the already settled spot and not yet settled at term.
These transactions fair value is not reliably measurable, the investment is held at are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently measured cost less any provision for impairment.
Assets such as shares in at amortised cost, by allocating the yield on the repo pro-rated over clearing and payment transmission operations and long term the duration of the contract the coupon accrued in the period and equity investments that do not qualify as associates or joint the difference between the spot and forward prices.
Since the asset ventures are usually classified as available for sale.
and liability positions for repos are matched, the same amount is recorded for both assets and liabilities and no gain or loss is c Loans and receivables recorded in the incomestatement.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets liabilities c Other receivables from and payables to clearing members with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for those These comprise accounts receivable and payable deriving from with maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet the activities of clearing members in derivatives, equities and date which are classified as non-current assets.
They mainly represent amounts to be received receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash or paid in relation to initial and variation margins, option premiums, and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
securities as collateral and default fund contributions and are initially recorded at fair value.
They are generally settled on the next day and, accordingly, are not discounted back to current value.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 77 d Financial assets and liabilities at fair value Trade receivables Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at These represent quoted equity and bond securities which CC&G their fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount has already withdrawn from the settlement system but has not less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade yet delivered to the intermediaries who have bought them and receivables is established when there is objective evidence that securities traded but not yet settled as part of the CCP function.
the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according These are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial re-measured at fair value, based on the market price of each difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter security.
The difference between the settlement price of each bankruptcy or financial reorganisation and default or delinquency security at trade date and the market price of that security at in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable the period end is recognised as a fair value gain or loss in the is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between incomestatement.
the assets carrying amount and the present value of the portion e Cash and cash equivalents restricted deemed recoverable.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss These include amounts received from clearing members to cover is recognised in the income statement.
Subsequent recoveries of initial and variation margins and default fund contributions as amounts previously written off are credited in the income statement.
collateral against default or insolvency and are deposited with banks.
Such amounts are initially recognised at fair value and Cash and cash equivalents are subsequently recognised at amortised cost using the effective Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, term deposits interest method, if the time value of money is significant.
and investments in money market funds that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to insignificant risk Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities of changes in value.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently Assets held for sale remeasured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
Assets are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction on whether or not the derivative is designated as a hedging and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the instrument, and if so the nature of the item being hedged.
lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging interest Borrowings risk on borrowings.
Any gain or loss is recognised in the income Bank borrowings are initially recorded at the fair value of amounts statement within finance expenses.
received, net of direct issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees.
Subsequently, these liabilities are carried at The Group designates as cash flow hedges both foreign currency amortised cost, and interest is charged to the income statement derivatives and hedges of interest rate movements associated over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest with highly probable forecast transactions.
Any gain or loss on method.
Similarly direct issue costs and transaction costs including the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the upfront facility fees are charged to the income statement over the hedge is recognised in equity.
period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
The Group hedges a proportion of its net investment in its Share capital Italian Companies by designating euro borrowings as a net The Companys own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are investmenthedge.
deducted from equity until they vest unconditionally for employees In order to qualify for hedge accounting, a transaction must and are held at cost.
Consideration paid in respect of these treasury meet strict criteria as regards documentation, effectiveness, shares is deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled, probability of occurrence and reliability of measurement.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the 2.
Financial risk management relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, The Groups approach to financial risk management seeks to protect as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for its financial performance from exposure to capital, credit, market undertaking various hedging transactions.
Effectiveness testing including foreign exchange and fair value and cash flow interest is conducted at each reporting date and at the commencement rate and liquidity risks.
and conclusion of any hedge in order to verify that the hedge continues to satisfy all the criteria for hedge accounting to be Financial risk management is not speculative.
It is performed at maintained.
The ineffective portion is recognised in the income a Group level, where the treasury function identifies, evaluates and statement within finance costs.
hedges financial risks from a Group perspective and also locally, where operating units manage regulatory and operational risks.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income The Treasury Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or meets regularly to ensure control is maintained and that the loss for example, when the forecast transaction that is hedged management of foreign exchange, interest rates, credit risks and takes place.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or the investment of excess liquidity are performed in accordance when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, with Group Board approved policies and procedures.
any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
78 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Capital risk Risk description Risk management approach The Group considers that The Group is mindful of its overall cost of capital, as it seeks to provide superior returns to its an increase in regulatory shareholders, fulfil its obligations to the relevant regulatory authorities and other stakeholders requirements and or a scarcity and ensure that it is not overly dependent upon short and medium term debt that might not be of debt or equity driven by its available at renewal.
Maintaining the flexibility to invest for growth is a key capital management own performance or financial consideration.
market conditions are the The Group can manage its capital structure by varying returns to shareholders, issuing new shares, principal risks to managing or increasing or reducing borrowings.
The Board reviews dividend policy and funding capacity on itscapital.
a regular basis and the Group maintains comfortable levels of debt facilityheadroom.
The Groups capital base To maintain the financial strength to access new capital at reasonable cost and meet its objective comprises equity capital, debt of maintaining an investment grade credit rating, the Group monitors its leverage ratio which is capital and retained profits, operating net debt ie excluding cash and cash equivalents set aside for regulatory purposes to details of which are set out in adjusted EBITDA Group consolidated earnings before net finance charges, taxation, impairment, the Consolidated Statement depreciation and amortisation and non-recurring items against a target range of 1-2 times.
of Changes in Equity and in At 31 March 2012 leverage was 1.4 times 2011: 1.0 times on a pro forma basis assuming the note23.
Group had owned 100 per cent of FTSE for the whole year.
Performance against the Groups bank facility ratio covenants net leverage and debt service remains very comfortable and does not inhibit the Groups operations or financing plans.
As at 31 March 2012, 165 million of cash and cash equivalents was set aside to cover regulatory and operational requirements.
This amount increased during the year as a result of a revised approach taken by the FSA in its regulatory oversight of LSE plc and is subject to on-going review with regulators in the UK and Italy.
Credit risk Risk description Risk management approach CC&G, in its role as central CC&G counterparty clearer CCP To address the market participant risk, CC&G has established financial safeguards against single to Italian financial market or multiple defaults.
Clearing membership selection is based upon supervisory capital, technical participants, guarantees final and organisational criteria.
Each member must pay margins, computed at least daily, to cover the settlement of transactions theoretical costs which CC&G would incur in order to close out open positions in the event of the acting as buyer towards each members default.
Margins are calculated using established international risk models and are seller and as seller towards debited by CC&G directly from participants accounts held with Bank of Italy.
It faces the risk of also contribute to default funds managed by CC&G to guarantee the integrity of the markets in the losses from the deterioration in event of multiple defaults in extreme market circumstances.
Amounts are determined on the basis the creditworthiness, or the of the results of periodic stress testing examined by CC&Gs risk committee and exceed standards default, of a participant.
agreed by the European Association of Central Counterparty Clearing Houses.
To date, no default of a direct participant has occurred.
To maintain liquidity, CC&G invests significant amounts of Deposit counterparty risk for CC&G margin and default funds is managed by investing cash with margin and default fund cash counterparties that are rated investment grade or who, if not rated, are publicly quoted and have with Italian banks but faces the aminimum level of capital.
CC&G liaises closely with the regulator of its counterparty banks, Bank risk of direct loss from of Italy, and to ensure liquidity funds are generally placed as overnight deposits and in all cases a deterioration or failure of one can be accessed within twobusiness days if required.
During the year we have further expanded the number of counterparties that take CC&Gs deposits to More broadly, credit risk relates diversify this risk including the introduction of Italian-based branches of major international banks.
to the Groups customers and Group counterparties being unable Credit risk is controlled through policies developed at a Group level.
to meet their obligations to the Group either in part or Group companies make a judgement on the credit quality of their customers based upon the in full, including: customers financial position, a low concentration of credit risk across a large number of customers, the recurring nature of the billing and collection arrangements and, historically, alow incidence customer receivables ofdefault.
repayment of invested cash and cash equivalents Credit risk of cash and cash equivalents is managed by limiting the exposure to up to 50million settlement of derivative for 12 months with counterparties rated long term AAA or equivalent through to amaximum financialinstruments 10million overnight with counterparties rated short term A-2 or equivalent.
Derivative transactions are undertaken with well-capitalised counterparties, authorised bypolicy, to limit the credit risk underlying these transactions.
The Group has increased focus on sovereign risk as a criteria in its counterparty selection.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 79 Liquidity risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups operations are Group businesses are profitable and generate strong free cash flow.
Other than the collection of annual exposed to liquidity risk to equity market membership fees in the first quarter of each financial year, the Groups cash flows are not the extent that they are significantly impacted by seasonal variations.
The Group maintains sufficient liquid resources to meet unable to meet their daily its financial obligations as they fall due and to invest in capital expenditure, make dividend payments, payment obligations.
support acquisitions or repay borrowings.
Funds can generally be lent across the Group without limitation other than by regulatory requirements in certain companies.
In addition, CC&G and certain other subsidiary Management monitors forecasts of the Groups cash flow and overlays sensitivities to these forecasts companies are required to to reflect assumptions about more difficult market conditions.
maintain a level of liquidity Treasury policy requires that the Group maintains adequate credit facilities provided by a diversified within their own legal lending group to at least cover its expected funding requirements for the next 24 months.
During entities to meet regulatory the year, a new 350 million committed revolving credit facility extending up to 3 years was arranged requirements and or ensure to underpin liquidity resources.
It provides additional headroom to fund the potential acquisition of the smooth operation of LCH.
Clearnet Group but falls away one month following any formal announcement by the Company their respectivemarkets.
At 31 March 2012, 603million of the Groups facilities excluding FTSEs local facilities were unutilised 2011: 500 million, with committed lines of credit including bond issues having an average life to maturity of almost 4 years.
CC&G maintains cash and cash equivalents and has access to bespoke committed and uncommitted lines of credit with intra-day financing from the Bank of Italy to meet the cash requirements of the clearing and settlement cycle that it manages in association with Monte Titoli.
In addition, Group companies maintain operational support facilities from banks to manage intraday and overnightliquidity.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 March 2012 m m m m Borrowings 10.5 235.7 263.2 247.7 Trade and other payables 237.5 CCP liabilities 99,747.2 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 2.0 99,995.2 235.7 263.3 249.7 Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 March 2011 m m m m Borrowings 0.1 500.0 Trade and other payables 156.5 CCP liabilities 116,104.5 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 12.9 116,261.4 512.9 80 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Market risk Foreign Exchange Risk description Risk management approach The Group operates in the The Group seeks, where it can, to match the currency of its debt liabilities with its EBITDA generation UK, Italy, and Sri Lanka in the same currency whilst endeavouring to balance the currency of its assets with the currency and, through its FTSE of itsliabilities.
International Limited The Group reinforces this methodology by regularly distributing its currency cash earnings in subsidiary, has growing dividends and by absorbing currency cash earnings through interest payments on sterling debt, businesses in the USA and re-denominated through the use of cross-currency swaps or by drawing debt in the same currency.
With the exception A significant majority of the Groups debt effectively held in currency is in euro.
At 31 March 2012, of MillenniumIT and FTSE 250.2million 2011: 265.1million of this was designated as a hedge of the net investment in the International Limited, Italian Group and a loss of 27.8 million for the financial year 2011: gain of 6.5million on foreign which invoice a material currency borrowings was recognised in equity.
The hedge was fully effective.
proportion of their revenues in US dollars, Group Whilst transactional foreign exchange exposure is limited, the Group hedges material transactions companies generally invoice in accordance with Group Treasury policy which requires that cash flows of more than 1million revenues, incur expenses or equivalent per annum should be hedged.
Hedge accounting is considered in each case where and purchase assets in their material levels of income statement volatility might result.
The Group reviews sensitivities to movements in exchange rates which are appropriate to market As a result, foreign exchange conditions.
As at 31 March 2012, the Group has considered movements in the euro over the last year risk arises mainly from the including recent volatility affecting this currency and has concluded that a 10 per cent movement translation of the Groups in rates is a reasonable benchmark.
At 31 March 2012, if sterling had weakened strengthened by foreign currency earnings, 10per cent against the euro with all other variables held constant, post tax profit for the year would assets and liabilities into its have been 0.3 million higher 0.3 million lower 2011: 0.8 million higher 0.6 million lower : reporting currency, sterling, however, equity would have been 14.4 million lower 2011: 10.8 million lower 8.6 million and from occasional, large higher 2011: 8.8million higher.
This reflects foreign exchange gains losses on translation intercompany transactions.
of euro denominated trade receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss The Group faces less and foreign exchange gains losses on translation of euro denominated borrowings, measuring the significant foreign impact of a change in rate on the balance sheet date.
If, on the other hand, the average rate for the exchange exposures year had moved 5c, this would have changed the Groups operating profit for the year before from transaction risk on amortisation of purchased intangibles and non-recurring items by approximately 12 million.
dividends that are remitted The Group monitors its exposure to the sovereign debt crisis in the Eurozone and the impact of austerity in currencies other than the measures being adopted, specifically in respect of our operations in Italy and more generally because of currency of the recipient the potential impacts on other areas of our business.
However, the Group may be exposed from time to time by strategic investments in currencies other thansterling.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 81 Market risk Cash Flow and Fair Value Interest Rate Risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups interest rate risk To provide a degree of income statement stability, the Group seeks to maintain a proportion of its arises through the impact of net debt at fixed rates of interest over the medium term.
The Group has issued a significant amount changes in market rates on of its debt at fixed rates of interest with the floating rate element being repaid as the Group generates cash flows associated with cash.
As at 31 March 2012, fixed rate borrowings represent 92 per cent of net debt.
During the year, the cash and cash equivalents, Group considered swapping a portion of its fixed rate debt into floating rates but did not execute any investments in financial transactions due to unfavourable economics and a preference to increase floating rate borrowings assets and borrowings naturally through strategic investments for example the proposed acquisition of LCH.
In its review of the sensitivities to potential movements in interest rates, the Group has considered interest rate volatility over the last year and prospects for rates over the next 12 months and has concluded that a two percentage point upward movement and no downward movement reflects a reasonable level of risk to current rates.
At 31 March 2012, if interest rates on sterling-denominated and euro-denominated cash and borrowings had been two percentage points higher with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 1.5 million lower 2011: 2.2million higher mainly as a result of higher interest expense on floating rate net borrowings 2011: interest income on floating rate cash and cash equivalents.
Significant judgements and estimates Judgements and estimates are regularly evaluated based on historical experience, current circumstances and expectations of future events.
The significant judgements and estimates for the year ended 31 March 2012 are as follows: Goodwill tested for impairment annually.
The recoverable amounts of relevant cash generating units are based on value in use calculations using managements best estimate of future performance and estimates of the return required by shareholders to determine an appropriate discount rate.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in note 13: Purchased intangible assets valued on acquisition using appropriate methodologies and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives.
These valuations and lives are based on managements best estimates of future performance and periods over which value from the intangible assets is realised: Valuation of subsidiary companies for the purpose of impairment testing determined in the financial statements of the Company based on forecast cash flows and an appropriate discount rate.
The basis of such values cannot be precise and is subject to market variations in bothcases: Defined benefit pension asset or liability determined based on the present value of future pension obligations using assumptions determined by the Group with advice from an independent qualified actuary.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in note 17: Property provision determined taking into consideration future expected receipts from sub-letting and future property costs based on advice from independent property advisers: and Corporation taxes estimates are required in determining the provision for corporation taxes.
The Group recognises liabilities for the estimated tax charge at the period end and where the final tax liability is different from that estimate, such differences are reflected in the period in which such determination is made.
82 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 4.
Segmental information Segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 March 2012 are as follows: Capital Post Trade Information Technology Markets Services Services Services Other Eliminations Group m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 301.9 101.6 218.9 52.6 4.8 679.8 Inter-segmental revenue 12.9 12.9 Revenue 301.9 101.6 218.9 65.5 4.8 12.9 679.8 Net treasury income through CCP business 126.9 126.9 Other Income 8.1 8.1 Total income 301.9 228.5 218.9 65.5 12.9 12.9 814.8 Operating profit before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 138.9 169.0 125.0 1.8 0.1 7.1 441.9 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 54.9 Non-recurring items 28.5 Operating profit 358.5 Profit on disposal acquisition of shares in subsidiary and joint ventures 323.8 Net finance expense 42.6 Profit before taxation 639.7 Other income statement items Depreciation and software amortisation 24.7 5.0 8.7 1.6 0.4 40.4 Share of loss profit after tax of joint ventures associates 1.4 7.3 5.9 Net treasury income through CCP business of 126.9m comprises gross interest income of 964.2m less gross interest expense of 837.3m.
Included within both gross interest income and gross interest expense is 767.3m relating to repo transactions: net of repo transactions gross interest income was 196.9m and gross interest expense was 70.0m.
Comparative segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 March 2011 restated are as follows: Capital Post Trade Information Technology Markets Services Services Services Other Eliminations Group m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 291.5 99.3 171.8 48.6 4.7 615.9 Inter-segmental revenue 33.5 33.5 Revenue 291.5 99.3 171.8 82.1 4.7 33.5 615.9 Net treasury income through CCP business 51.3 51.3 Other Income 7.7 7.7 Total income 291.5 150.6 171.8 82.1 12.4 33.5 674.9 Operating profit before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 133.4 90.4 111.4 30.0 5.5 29.6 341.1 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 47.1 Non-recurring items 11.0 Operating profit 283.0 Net finance expense 44.8 Profit before taxation 238.2 Other income statement items Depreciation and software amortisation 33.3 5.5 8.8 1.4 0.5 49.5 Share of loss profit after tax of joint ventures associates 1.9 5.0 3.1 Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 83 Net treasury income through CCP business of 51.3m comprises gross interest income of 227.3m less gross interest expense of 176.0m.
Included within both gross interest income and gross interest expense is 150.4m relating to repo transactions: net of repo transactions gross interest income was 76.9m and gross interest expense was 25.6m.
The segmental reporting has been restated to: show the transfer of the Turquoise business from Information Services into the Capital Markets segment.
This reflects the current organisation of the chief operating decision maker, which is the Executive Committee: reflect a change in the allocation of overheads between the segments to better reflect the management and reporting structures: and show the underlying profitability of each segment, including the impact of inter-segmental transactions, being the sales of software from MillenniumIT to other segments, which are eliminated from the Group total.
None of these changes are considered material.
Geographical disclosure 2012 2011 m m Revenue UK 338.2 305.9 Italy 166.9 168.8 Other 174.7 141.2 Total 679.8 615.9 Revenue is allocated based on the country in which the customer is located.
Expenses by nature Expenses comprise the following: 2012 2011 m m Cost of sales 45.8 37.0 Employee costs 151.4 117.4 Depreciation and non-acquisition software amortisation 40.4 49.5 Amortisation of purchased intangibles assets and non-recurring costs 81.0 68.1 IT costs 67.7 65.7 Other costs 73.5 67.3 Total expenses 459.8 405.0 Foreign exchange gains or losses included in the income statement are immaterial.
84 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 6.
Employee costs 2012 2011 Employee costs comprise the following: Notes m m Salaries and other short term benefits 115.8 92.0 Social security costs 16.6 15.2 Pension costs 17 6.9 5.2 Share based compensation 31 12.1 5.0 Total 151.4 117.4 2012 2011 The number of employees in the Group was: Average Year end Average Year end UK 760 746 497 492 Italy 422 416 455 456 Sri Lanka 615 655 534 587 Other 119 120 29 28 1,916 1,937 1,515 1,563 The Company has no employees.
Average is calculated from date of acquisition.
Amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 2012 2011 Notes m m Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 13 54.9 47.1 Transaction costs 23.4 15.4 Restructuring costs 3.5 Property costs 2.7 2.1 Revaluation on acquisition within joint venture 2.4 10.0 Total affecting operating profit 83.4 58.1 Profit on acquisition disposal of shares in subsidiary 324.3 Charge for new transaction related revolving credit facility 1.8 Total affecting profit before tax 239.1 58.1 Tax effect on items affecting profit before tax Deferred tax on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 5.9 6.4 Current tax on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 0.7 Tax effect on other items affecting profit before tax 2.0 1.7 Total tax effect on items affecting profit before tax 8.6 8.1 Total credit charge to income statement 247.7 50.0 Transaction costs principally comprise advisers costs relating to the acquisition of the remaining 50 per cent of FTSE and costs incurred and committed to date associated with the proposed LCH.
Clearnet transaction, which primarily comprise non-contingent advisers fees.
AC$10m break fee received from TMX Inc. offset the costs incurred in the year relating to that proposed transaction.
Property costs are animpairment provision relating to a freehold building now held for resale.
The revaluation on acquisition within joint venture relates to theacquisition by the Groups FTSE joint venture of the remaining 50 per cent of the FXI Chinese index business.
The profit on acquisition disposal relates to the fair value mark up of our existing interest in FTSE International Ltd on acquisition, resulting in a gain of 317.9m, aswell as the sale of Servizio Titoli in April 2011, which resulted in a profit on disposal of 6.4m.
The charge for the new revolving credit facility relates to funding required for the LCH.
Clearnet transaction the facility falls away if the acquisition is not completed.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 85 8.
Net finance expense 2012 2011 Notes m m Finance income Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets 17 13.1 14.5 Bank deposit and other interest income 3.6 1.3 Other finance income 0.1 0.3 16.8 16.1 Finance expense Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 40.6 42.8 Defined benefit pension scheme interest cost 17 13.8 14.7 Other finance expenses 3.2 3.4 Non-recurring credit facility arrangement fees 1.8 59.4 60.9 Net finance expense 42.6 44.8 9.
Taxation The standard UK corporation tax rate was 26 per cent 28 per cent for the year ended 31 March 2011.
2012 2011 Taxation charged to the income statement Notes m m Current tax: UK corporation tax for the year 28.6 38.1 Overseas tax for the year 89.1 55.3 Adjustments in respect of previous years 1.8 1.0 119.5 94.4 Deferred tax: 16 Deferred tax for the year 0.2 10.4 Adjustments in respect of previous years 5.5 4.1 Deferred tax liability on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 5.9 6.4 Taxation charge 108.3 81.7 2012 2011 Taxation on items not credited charged to income statement m m Current tax credit : Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 0.3 1.3 Deferred tax credit loss : Defined benefit pension scheme actuarial loss gain 12.5 9.0 Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 0.5 0.5 Adjustments relating to change in UK tax rate 0.6 0.7 12.7 6.5 86 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The income statement tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 26 per cent as explained below: 2012 2011 m m Profit before taxation 639.7 238.2 Profit multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 166.3 66.7 Profit on disposal acquisition of shares in subsidiary 84.3 Expenses not deductible income not taxable 1.7 5.9 Share of joint venture and associates consolidated at profit after tax 0.9 3.8 Overseas earnings taxed at higher rate 21.6 13.2 Adjustments in respect of previous years 3.8 5.1 Amortisation of purchased intangibles 7.7 6.4 Taxation charge 108.3 81.7 10.
Earnings per share Earnings per share is presented on four bases: basic earnings per share: diluted earnings per share: adjusted basic earnings per share: and adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Basic earnings per share is in respect of all activities and diluted earnings per share takes into account the dilution effects which would arise on conversion or vesting of share options and share awards under the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP.
Adjusted basic earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share exclude amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items to enable a better comparison of the underlying earnings of the business with prior periods.
2012 2011 Basic earnings per share 193.6p 56.4p Diluted earnings per share 190.9p 55.9p Adjusted basic earnings per share 100.6p 73.7p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 99.2p 72.9p m m Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders 522.0 151.6 Adjustments: Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 54.9 47.1 Transaction costs 23.4 15.4 Restructuring costs 3.5 Property costs 2.7 2.1 Revaluation on acquisition within joint ventures 2.4 10.0 Profit on disposal acquisition of shares in subsidiary 324.3 Charge for new revolving credit facility 1.8 Tax effect of amortisation and non-recurring items 8.6 8.1 Non-recurring items, amortisation and taxation attributable to non-controlling interests 3.0 3.7 Adjusted profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders 271.3 197.9 Weighted average number of shares million 269.6 268.6 Effect of dilutive share options and awards million 3.8 2.8 Diluted weighted average number of shares million 273.4 271.4 The weighted average number of shares excludes those held in the ESOP.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 87 11.
Dividends 2012 2011 m m Final dividend for 2011 paid 16 August 2011: 18.0p per Ordinary share 2010: 16.0p 48.5 42.9 Interim dividend for 2012 paid 5 January 2012: 9.3p per Ordinary share 2011: 8.8p 25.1 23.7 73.6 66.6 The Board has proposed a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2012 of 19.0p per share, which is estimated to amount to 51.3m, to be paid on 20 August 2012.
88 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 13.
The goodwill arising on consolidation represents the growth potential and assembled workforces of the Italian Group, FTSE Group, MillenniumIT and Turquoise.
The Company has no intangibleassets.
During the prior year the goodwill and purchased intangibles allocated to Servizio Titoli were transferred to assets held for sale.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to the 11 cash generating units CGUs shown in the table below with the FTSEGroup, acquired during the year, comprising one CGU.
The recoverable amounts of these CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations, using discounted cash flow projections prepared by management covering the five year period ending 31 March 2017.
Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using the estimated long term growth rates and applying the pre-tax discount rates referred to below.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 89 The amount of the net book value of goodwill allocated to each CGU is set out below.
Net book value of goodwill Pre-tax discount rate used in Foreign value in use 31 March 2011 Additions exchange 31 March 2012 calculations m m m m Italian group: Issuer 19.4 1.1 18.3 12.4% Equities Trading 65.4 3.7 61.7 12.7% Derivatives Trading 29.3 1.7 27.6 12.6% Fixed Income Trading 73.9 4.2 69.7 12.2% Information Services 121.2 6.8 114.4 12.7% Technology Services 14.3 0.8 13.5 13.5% Post Trade Services 383.7 21.7 362.0 13.3% MillenniumIT: Software 0.9 0.2 0.7 21.6% Enterprise Service Provider 0.8 0.1 0.7 19.8% Turquoise 7.4 7.4 14.2% FTSE 75.6 75.6 716.3 75.6 40.3 751.6 Management has based its value in use calculations for each CGU on key assumptions about short and medium term revenue and cost growth, long term economic growth rates used to determine terminal values and pre-tax discount rates.
The values assigned to short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions reflect current trends, anticipated market developments, discussions with customers and suppliers, and managements experience, taking account of an expected recovery in underlying financial markets.
Long term growth rates assumed to be 2.1 per cent for each of the Italian CGUs, 7.0 and 15.2 per cent for MillenniumITs Software and Enterprise Service Provider CGUs respectively, and 3.0 per cent for Turquoise represent managements internal forecasts based on external estimates of GDP and inflation for the 14 year period 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2016, and do not exceed the long term average growth rates for the countries in which the CGUs operate.
Pre-tax discount rates are based on a number of factors including the risk-free rates in Italy, Sri Lanka and the UK as appropriate, the Groups estimated market risk premium and a premium to reflect the inherent risks of each of the CGUs.
Based on the results of the impairment tests performed management believes there is no impairment of the carrying value of the goodwill in any CGU.
In addition, no impairment of the Companys investments in subsidiary undertakings referred to in note 15 was considerednecessary.
Value in use calculations for each CGU are sensitive to changes in short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions, long term growth rates and pre-tax discount rates.
The impact on value in use of a change in these assumptions is shown below: The FTSE Group was acquired only recently and, following a post acquisition review, no factors have been identified which would give rise to an impairment.
90 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Impact on value in use of: Excess of value 0.5% reduction 0.5% increase in use over 5% reduction 5% increase in long-term in pre-tax carrying value in revenues in costs growth rate discount rate Cash generating unit m m m m m Italian group: Issuer 15.4 9.3 5.3 4.4 4.1 Equities Trading 26.6 18.9 9.2 9.9 8.9 Derivatives Trading 55.4 9.5 4.3 5.3 4.9 Fixed Income Trading 77.5 34.9 19.3 16.6 15.7 Information Services 85.3 24.3 10.3 13.8 12.3 Technology Services 16.4 7.9 5.5 1.7 1.4 Post Trade Services 324.1 70.0 22.4 40.8 34.1 Management believes goodwill allocated to FTSE International Ltd FTSE, MillenniumIT and Turquoise CGUs is unlikely to be materially impaired under any reasonable changes to key assumptions.
The excess of value in use over carrying value is determined by reference to the net book value as at 31 March 2012.
Revenue and cost sensitivities assume a five per cent change in revenues or costs for each of the five years in the value in usecalculations.
Investment in joint ventures The Group owned 50 per cent of the 1,000 1 issued equity shares in FTSE, a company incorporated in Great Britain which provides financial indices to international clients until it acquired full ownership on 16 December 2011.
The following table shows the Groups 50 per cent share of the revenues and expenses of FTSE, which had a December year-end, up to the date of acquisition on 16 December 2011 and the share of assets and liabilities as a joint venture at 31 December 2010: December 2011 December 2010 m m Revenue 57.2 51.2 Expenses, including tax 49.9 36.2 Profit after tax 7.3 15.0 Non-current assets 29.8 Current assets 31.0 Total assets 60.8 Current liabilities 36.5 Non-current liabilities 8.1 Total liabilities 44.6 Net assets 16.2 The Group disposed of its 49 per cent interest in TOKYO AIM, a company incorporated in Japan to provide secondary market listings in Tokyo for 1.3m on 27 March 2012 resulting in a loss on disposal of 0.5m.
TOKYO AIM was a joint venture with Tokyo Stock Exchange Group, a company incorporated in Japan, and the Group has recognised its 1.4m 2011: 1.6m share of TOKYO AIMs loss in the income statement.
The Group was entitled, under a shareholders agreement, to receive royalties from FTSE.
The amount received by the Group from FTSE until the remaining interest was acquired was 13.1m 2011: 11.3m.
During the year the Group received dividends of 7.3m 2011: 3.7m from FTSE.
This related to the period that FTSE was a joint venture within the Group.
The Company had no investment in joint ventures.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 91 15.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings Shares Loans Total Company m m m 1 April 2010 3,411.5 333.1 3,744.6 Subscription for shares in London Stock Exchange Group Holdings R Ltd 10.8 10.8 Other movements during the year 4.3 4.3 31 March 2011 3,422.3 337.4 3,759.7 Subscription for further shares in London Stock Exchange Group Holdings R Ltd 11.7 11.7 Other movements during the year 8.6 8.6 31 March 2012 3,434.0 328.8 3,762.8 Country of Principal Country of principal % equity and Principal subsidiaries: activity incorporation operations votes held Held directly by the Company: London Stock Exchange plc Recognised investment exchange UK UK 100 Held indirectly by the Company: Retail information services & market BIt Market Services S. p. A. technology Italy Italy 99.99 Borsa Italiana S. p. A. Recognised investment exchange Italy Italy 99.99 Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CCP for clearing Italy Italy 99.99 FTSE International Limited Market indices provider UK UK 100 Monte Titoli S. p. A. Presettlement, settlement and Italy Italy 98.80 centralised custody Millennium IT Software Private Limited IT solutions provider Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 100 Proquote Limited Market data provider UK UK 100 Societa per il Mercato dei Titoli di Stato S. p. A.
Wholesale fixed income bonds Italy Italy 60.37 Turquoise Global Holdings Limited Multilateral trading facility UK UK 51.36 During the year, the Group acquired the remaining 50 per cent of the share capital of FTSE International Limited and Borsa Italiana paid 53.2m for the 13.64 per cent of Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. from Unicredit S. p. A. that it did not already own.
Under Regulation 7 of The Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008, the Group elected not to prepare partnership accounts for its indirect partnership interest in London Stock Exchange Connectivity Solutions LP, as its results are contained in the consolidated group accounts.
A full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to the next annual return of London Stock Exchange Group plc.
92 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 16.
Deferred taxation The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below.
Acquisition Provisions deferred and other Accelerated tax tax and temporary depreciation amortisation differences Total Group m m m m 1 April 2010 1.5 89.5 2.9 88.1 Tax charged credited to the income statement 0.2 6.4 6.5 12.7 Tax credited to other comprehensive income: defined benefit pension scheme actuarial loss 8.3 8.3 allowance on share options awards 0.5 0.5 foreign exchange 1.1 1.1 Transfer to held for sale 2.7 0.2 2.5 Transfer between current and deferred tax 0.5 0.5 31 March 2011 1.7 79.3 0.9 80.1 Tax credited to the income statement 3.8 5.9 1.5 11.2 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income: defined benefit pension scheme actuarial loss 12.2 12.2 allowance on share options awards 0.2 0.2 foreign exchange 0.1 4.5 4.4 Balance sheet transfer of pre-acquisition balances 48.4 48.4 31 March 2012 2.0 117.3 14.8 100.5 Assets at 31 March 2012 2.0 14.8 16.8 Liabilities at 31 March 2012 117.3 117.3 Net assets liabilities at 31 March 2012 2.0 117.3 14.8 100.5 Assets at 31 March 2011 1.1 11.1 12.2 Liabilities at 31 March 2011 2.8 79.3 10.2 92.3 Net liabilities assets at 31 March 2011 1.7 79.3 0.9 80.1 The deferred tax assets are recoverable against future taxable profits and are due after more than one year.
The purchased intangible assets of the Italian group create a deferred tax liability due to the difference between their accounting and tax treatment.
This liability is amortised at the same rate as the intangible assets.
The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses of 56m 2011: 54m within certain Group subsidiaries.
The assets would be recognised in the future only if suitable taxable income were to arise within the Group.
There was no deferred tax in the Company.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 93 17.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates separate defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
The assets of the defined benefit and defined contribution schemes in the UK are held separately from those of the Group in a separate trustee administered fund and the funds were primarily managed by Schroder Investment Management Limited, Investec Asset Management Limited, Legal & General Investment Management Limited, PIMCO Europe Limited and Aviva Investors during the year.
The Other plans relate to the severance and leaving indemnity scheme Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR operated by the Italian group in accordance with Italian law and the employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT.
The Company has no retirement benefit obligations.
On 7 April 2011 the Trustees of the Groups Defined Benefit Plan signed an agreement with Pension Insurance Corporation Limited to insure for a premium of all future payments to scheme members who were pensioners at 31 March 2011, thereby eliminating any investment, inflation and mortality risk associated with these benefits.
The actuarial liability of these benefits at 31 March 2011 was 140.5m, with the excess of the insurance premium over the liabilities being funded from the Plan surplus.
The contract includes an obligation to insure future retirements over the next five years on consistent pricing terms for a total premium currently estimated to be 45m.
The only scheme operated by FTSE International was a defined contribution scheme.
Defined benefit schemes The UK defined benefit scheme was a non-contributory scheme and closed to new members in 1999.
With effect from 31 March 2012, the scheme also closed to accrual of future years of service benefits for active members.
Pension scheme obligations and costs are determined by an independent qualified actuary on a regular basis using the projected unit credit method.
The obligations are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme and are reflected in the Group balance sheet.
The TFR operated by the Italian group is classified as an unfunded defined benefit scheme for funds accumulated prior to 1 July 2007.
The service cost, representing deferred salaries accruing to employees, was included as an operating expense and was determined by law at 6.91per cent of salary payments subject to certain adjustments.
The scheme obligation comprises accumulated service costs and is revalued by law at a rate equal to 75 per cent of national life price index 1.5 per cent by an independent qualified actuary.
Since 1 July 2007, the Group retains no obligation, as contributions are made directly into Italian state funds in the manner of a defined contribution scheme.
The employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT is classified as a defined benefit plan.
The net obligation in respect of this plan is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
Once an employee is continuously employed for more than five years, he or she is entitled to a payment equivalent to half a months gross salary multiplied by the number of years in service at MillenniumIT.
Defined contribution schemes The Groups defined contribution schemes are now the only schemes open to new employees in the UK and Italy.
For the UK pension plan, a core contribution of eight per cent of pensionable pay is provided and the Group will match employee contributions up to a maximum of six per cent of pensionable pay.
Amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2012 2011 UK Pension Other plans UK Pension Other plans Notes m m m m Defined contribution schemes 3.1 1.2 2.2 1.3 Defined benefit scheme current service cost 0.6 2.0 0.7 1.0 Total pension charge included in employee costs 6 3.7 3.2 2.9 2.3 Finance income and expense Interest expense 13.5 0.3 14.3 0.4 Expected return on assets 13.1 14.5 Net finance expense income 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.4 Total recognised in the income statement 4.1 3.5 2.7 2.7 94 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Defined benefit assets obligations for UK pension scheme 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m Fair value of assets: Equities 39.0 39.3 37.2 25.1 33.2 Bonds 67.5 219.5 218.5 202.6 190.9 Property 24.4 23.3 13.3 7.1 8.8 Pensioner buy in policy 133.5 Total fair value of assets 264.4 282.1 269.0 234.8 232.9 Present value of funded obligations 274.2 244.5 264.4 229.8 221.1 Deficit surplus 9.8 37.6 4.6 5.0 11.8 The main actuarial assumptions are set out below: 2012 2011 UK Pension Italian plan UK Pension Italian plan Inflation rate RPI 3.4% 2.0% 3.5% 2.0% Inflation rate CPI 2.4% 2.5% Rate of increase in salaries 4.4% 3.5% 5.0% 3.5% Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.6% 3.0% 3.7% 3.0% Discount rate 5.0% 4.0% 5.6% 4.1% Expected return on assets as at the start of the year: equities 7.3% 7.6% bonds 3.8% 4.8% property 6.5% 6.8% pensioner buy in policy 5.0% Life expectancy from age 60 Years : Non retired male member 27.9 27.8 Non retired female member 30.7 30.6 Retired male member 26.3 26.2 Retired female member 29.2 29.1 Expected return on equities and property are determined by applying an appropriate risk premium to the risk free rate measured with reference to the return on Government bonds.
Expected returns on bonds are derived from returns on Government and corporate bonds of an equivalent term to the investments held.
The mortality assumptions are based on the standard tables S1NA published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries adjusted to take account of projected future improvements in life expectancy from the Self Administered Pension Scheme SAPS mortality survey, which was published in 2008.
We have used an allowance for the medium cohort effect and applied a one per cent underpin in respect of future mortality improvements.
Sensitivities The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme obligations are: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme obligations Inflation rate Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 4.6m Rate of increase in pensions payment Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 18.0m Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.5% Decrease increase by 21.7m Mortality rate Increase by 1 year Increase by 8.1m Movement in defined benefit obligation during the year 2012 2011 UK Pension Other plans UK Pension Other plans m m m m 1 April 244.5 6.4 264.4 7.3 Current service cost 0.6 2.0 0.7 1.0 Interest expense 13.5 0.3 14.3 0.4 Benefits paid 8.7 1.6 8.1 1.8 Actuarial loss gain 24.3 0.1 26.8 0.3 Foreign exchange 0.3 0.2 31 March 274.2 6.7 244.5 6.4 Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 95 Movement in fair value of UK plan assets during the year 2012 2011 m m 1 April 282.1 269.0 Expected return on assets 13.1 14.5 Contributions received 1.3 1.4 Benefits paid 8.7 8.1 Actuarial loss gain 23.4 5.3 31 March 264.4 282.1 The actual loss on plan assets was 10.3m 2011 return: 19.8 million.
Defined benefit actuarial gains and losses recognised The experience adjustments and the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions of the pension scheme during the year are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income: 2012 2011 UK Pension Other plans UK Pension Other plans m m m m Recognised up to 1 April 34.8 1.0 2.7 1.3 Net actuarial loss gain recognised in the year 47.7 0.1 32.1 0.3 Cumulative amount recognised at 31 March 12.9 0.9 34.8 1.0 The actuarial loss recognised in the year includes 33.1m in relation to the buy-in of the pension payments in April 2011.
This is reflective of the excess of the premium paid over the related liabilities transferred.
The last actuarial valuation of the defined benefit scheme was carried out at 31 March 2012 by an independent qualified actuary.
The current ordinary contributions are 41 per cent of pensionable salaries.
This will be reviewed following the actuarial valuation.
The Company expects to contribute approximately 0.6million to the defined benefit scheme during the year to 31 March 2013.
The next actuarial valuation as at 31March 2015 may result in an adjustment to future contribution levels.
The Company estimates the present value of the duration of defined benefit obligations on average fall due over 20 years.
History of experience gains and losses for UK scheme 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets: Experience loss gain m 23.4 5.3 25.6 11.2 3.7 Percentage of scheme assets 8.9% 1.9% 9.5% 4.8% 1.6% Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities: Experience loss gain m 3.9 1.5 7.5 1.3 0.7 Impact of changes in assumptions m 20.4 25.3 34.9 1.1 24.8 Total m 24.3 26.8 27.4 0.2 25.5 Percentage of scheme liabilities Experience loss gain 1.4% 0.6% 2.8% 0.6% 0.3% Impact of changes in assumptions 7.4% 10.3% 13.2% 0.5% 11.2% Total 8.8% 10.9% 10.4% 0.1% 11.5% 96 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 18.
Trade and other receivables Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Trade receivables 114.7 82.4 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 7.8 7.3 Trade receivables net 106.9 75.1 Amounts due from Group undertakings 585.9 154.5 Other receivables 4.1 3.6 Prepayments and accrued income 67.3 48.1 0.3 0.5 178.3 126.8 586.2 155.0 The carrying values less impairment provision of trade and other receivables are reasonable approximations of fair values.
Trade receivables that are not past due are not considered to be impaired.
The ageing of past due debtors for the Group is as follows: 2012 2011 Impaired Not impaired Impaired Not impaired m m m m 0 to 3 months past due 0.1 47.9 24.8 Greater than 3 months past due 7.7 12.4 7.3 5.2 7.8 60.3 7.3 30.0 The carrying amount of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2012 2011 m m Sterling 98.8 58.3 Euro 57.2 61.8 Other Currencies 22.3 6.7 178.3 126.8 Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2012 2011 m m 1 April 7.3 6.8 Provision for receivables impairment 1.6 0.8 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 0.6 0.3 Provisions no longer required 0.4 0.1 Foreign exchange 0.1 0.1 31 March 7.8 7.3 The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in operating expenses in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables and the other categories of financial assets do not contain impaired assets.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 97 19.
Financial instruments by category The financial instruments of the Group and Company are categorised as follows: Group Company Assets at fair Assets at fair Loans and Available value through Loans and value through receivables for sale profit or loss Total receivables profit or loss Total 31 March 2012 m m m m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Financial assets of the CCP clearingbusiness CCP trading assets 4,167.6 4,167.6 Receivables for repurchase transactions 84,968.2 84,968.2 Other receivables from clearingmembers 4,410.5 4,410.5 Financial assets held at fair value 73.3 73.3 Cash and cash equivalents of clearingmembers 6,137.3 6,137.3 Financial assets of the CCP clearingbusiness 95,516.0 4,240.9 99,756.9 Assets held at fair value 14.6 14.6 Total financial assets for CCP clearing 95,516.0 4,255.5 99,771.5 Trade and other receivables 111.0 111.0 585.9 585.9 Cash and cash equivalents 216.0 216.0 0.2 0.2 Available for sale financial assets 0.4 0.4 Cross currency interest rate swaps 5.2 5.2 5.2 5.2 Total 95,843.0 0.4 4,260.7 100,104.1 586.1 5.2 591.3 Group Company Derivatives Other financial Derivatives Other financial used for hedging liabilities Total used for hedging liabilities Total m m m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business CCP trading liabilities 4,167.7 4,167.7 Liabilities under repurchase transactions 84,968.2 84,968.2 Other payables to clearing members 10,537.9 10,537.9 Financial liabilities held at fair value 73.4 73.4 Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business 99,747.2 99,747.2 Trade and other payables 237.5 237.5 315.7 315.7 Provisions 30.1 30.1 Borrowings 757.1 757.1 746.6 746.6 Cross currency interest rate swaps 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 Total 2.1 100,771.9 100,774.0 2.1 1,062.3 1,064.4 98 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 The valuation of CCP assets held at fair value through profit or loss is performed with reference to quoted prices from the markets to which they relate and therefore are all considered to be level 1.
The derivative financial instruments are considered to be level 2.
The cross currency interest rate swaps are used to change the currency of borrowings to reduce exposure to net assets and cash flow denominated in currencies other than sterling.
These are designated as a hedge of the Groups net investment in the Italian group and qualify for effective hedge accounting as both legs of the swap are at fixed rate.
There were no new swaps transacted during the period.
The existing cross-currency swaps, amounting to six contracts of 50m each, effectively exchange some of the proceeds of the 2016 and the 2019 250m bonds from sterling into euros.
The swaps are designated part of the Groups net investment hedge and these derivative financial instruments exactly match the terms of the underlying bonds, the sterling coupon interest rates and their timings and so these hedges are expected to be perfectly effective.
For the year ended 31 March 2012, the Group recognised the 15.6m movement in mark to market value of these derivatives in reserves 2011: 3.4m.
The effectiveness of the other hedges has been tested by means of a regression analysis and ineffectiveness was found to be negligible.
During the period, four interest rate contracts of 25m each, that swapped a proportion of the 2016 sterling bond issue obligation from fixed interest rates into floating interest rates matured.
These interest rate swaps were used to manage exposure to movements in interest rates.
The resulting increase in fixed rate liabilities has been more than compensated by floating rate drawings from the Groups revolving credit facilities to finance the 50 per cent acquisition of FTSE International Limited in December 2011.
The Groups financial assets held at fair value consist largely of Italian equities restricted in use for the operations of CC&G as manager of the clearing and guarantee system.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as trading and available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The nature and composition of the CCP clearing business assets and liabilities is explained in the accounting policies note on page 76.
As at 31 March 2012, there were no provisions for impairment in relation to any of the CCP financial assets 2011: nil and none of these assets were past due 2011: nil.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 99 The financial instruments of the Group and the Company at the previous years balance sheet date were as follows: Group Company Assets at fair Assets at fair Loans and Available value through Loans and value through receivables for sale profit or loss Total receivables profit or loss Total 31 March 2011 m m m m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Financial assets of the CCP clearingbusiness CCP trading assets 7,309.5 7,309.5 Receivables for repurchase transactions 98,863.1 98,863.1 Other receivables from clearing members 3,983.1 3,983.1 Financial assets held at fair value 22.2 22.2 Cash and cash equivalents of clearingmembers 5,929.3 5,929.3 Financial assets of the CCP clearingbusiness 108,775.5 7,331.7 116,107.2 Assets held at fair value 8.6 8.6 Total financial assets for CCP clearing 108,775.5 7,340.3 116,115.8 Trade and other receivables 78.7 78.7 154.5 154.5 Cash and cash equivalents 267.0 267.0 0.8 0.8 Available for sale financial assets 0.4 0.4 Interest rate swaps 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.3 0.3 Total 109,121.2 0.4 7,341.0 166,462.6 155.3 0.4 155.7 Group Company Derivatives Derivatives used for Other financial used for Other financial hedging liabilities Total hedging liabilities Total m m m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business CCP trading liabilities 7,309.5 7,309.5 Liabilities under repurchase transactions 98,863.1 98,863.1 Other payables to clearing members 9,910.9 9,910.9 Financial liabilities held at fair value 21.0 21.0 Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business 116,104.5 116,104.5 Trade and other payables 156.5 156.5 210.4 210.4 Provisions 31.5 31.5 Borrowings 499.1 499.1 499.0 499.0 Cross currency interest rate swaps 12.9 12.9 12.9 12.9 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.3 0.3 Total 13.2 116,791.6 116,804.8 12.9 709.4 722.3 100 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 20.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Cash at bank 116.5 152.1 0.2 0.8 Short term deposits 99.5 114.9 216.0 267.0 0.2 0.8 Cash and cash equivalents is held with authorised counterparties of a high credit standing, in interest bearing current and call accounts, short term deposits and AAA rated money market funds.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by the counterparties holding cash and cash equivalents, and there are no differences between their book and fair values.
Cash and cash equivalents does not include amounts held by CC&G on behalf of its clearing members, the use of which is restricted to the operation of CC&G as manager of the clearing and guarantee system see note 19.
Cash and cash equivalents includes amounts held by regulated entities for regulatory and operational purposes.
At 31 March 2012, the Group set aside 165.0m 2011: 125.0m for such purposes, with the amount subject to regular review with regulators in the UK and Italy.
Assets liabilities held for sale Assets classified as held for sale 2012 2011 m m Property, plant and equipment 6.4 9.6 Intangible assets 22.4 Other current assets 4.9 6.4 36.9 Liabilities classified as held for sale 2012 2011 m m Trade and other payables 1.4 Other current liabilities 3.4 4.8 The assets held at the year end relate to a freehold property.
The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are reasonable approximations of fair value.
There have been no transactions recognised during the year in the statement of comprehensive income relating to the Company classified as held for sale.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 101 22.
Borrowings Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Current Bank borrowings and trade finance loans 10.5 0.1 10.5 0.1 Noncurrent Bond 499.4 499.5 499.4 499.5 Bank borrowings 247.5 247.5 Deferred arrangement fees 0.3 0.5 0.3 0.5 746.6 499.0 746.6 499.0 The Group has the following unsecured notes and committed bank facilities: Carrying Interest rate value at percentage at Notes Facility 31 March 2012 31 March 2012 Type Expiry date m m % Drawn value of facilities Multi-currency revolving credit facility Jul 2013 250.0 236.0 LIBOR 0.8 Multi-currency revolving credit facility Dec 2014 350.0 LIBOR 1.25 Multi-currency term & revolving credit facilities Jul 2015 41.2 10.0 LIBOR 1.5 Multi-currency revolving credit facility Nov 2015 250.0 11.5 LIBOR 1.0 Total Bank facilities 891.2 257.5 Notes due July 2016 Jul 2016 250.0 251.7 6.125 Notes due October 2019 Oct 2019 250.0 247.7 9.125 Total Bonds 500.0 499.4 Total Committed Facilities 1,391.2 756.9 In addition to the committed bank facility drawings, Millennium IT and Millennium IT Software have un-committed overdraft facility drawings of 0.5m 2011: 0.1m.
CC&G has direct intra-day access to refinancing with the Bank of Italy to cover its operational liquidity requirements.
In addition, uncommitted credit lines of 1billion are available from major Italian banks in relation to support of the MTS markets.
If these are drawn they are guaranteed by CCP assets comprising Italian Government Bonds.
CC&G also has available to it 200m of committed facilities with banks, for short term CCP related activity purposes only.
102 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Non-current borrowings In July 2006, the Company issued a 250m bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in July 2016.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in January and July each year.
The issue price of the bond was 99.679 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is dependent on movements in the Companys credit rating with Moodys which was unchanged throughout the financial year.
The bond coupon remained at 6.125 per cent throughout this period.
In June 2009, the Company issued another 250m bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in October 2019.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in April and October each year.
The issue price of the bond was 99.548 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is dependent on the Companys credit ratings with Moodys and Standard & Poors which were unchanged throughout the financial year.
The bond coupon remained at 9.125 per cent throughout this period.
During the year the Company drew down on its existing credit facilities to fund the acquisition of the 50 per cent of FTSE International Limited it did not already own and signed a new 350m unsecured committed revolving credit facility expiring in December 2014 which allowed the Company to preserve comfortable facility headroom.
The facility term is subject to a one year extension option exercisable by the Company but the facility will expire one month after any formal cessation of the LCH Clearnet acquisition.
Arrangement fees associated with the new committed facility were expensed during the year.
FTSE maintains separate committed facilities comprising a $50m revolving credit facility and a Hong Kong dollar 124m term loan maturing in July 2015.
Fair values The fair values of the Groups borrowings are as follows: Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value 2012 2012 2011 2011 Group m m m m Borrowings within one year 10.5 10.5 0.1 0.1 after more than one year 746.6 832.8 499.0 573.0 757.1 843.3 499.1 573.1 The fair values of the Companys borrowings are as follows: Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value 2012 2012 2011 2011 Company m m m m Borrowings after more than one year 746.6 832.8 499.0 573.0 746.6 832.8 499.0 573.0 The fair values of borrowings are based on discounted cash flows using a rate based on borrowing cost.
Floating rate borrowings bear interest at an agreed margin over LIBOR.
The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2012 2011 Drawn Swapped Effective Drawn Swapped Effective Currency m m m m m m Sterling 735.1 250.2 484.9 499.0 265.0 234.0 Euro 250.2 250.2 265.0 265.0 Sri Lankan Rupees 0.5 0.5 0.1 0.1 Hong Kong Dollars 21.5 21.5 Total 757.1 757.1 499.1 499.1 Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 103 24.
Analysis of net debt Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Due within one year Cash and cash equivalents 216.0 267.0 0.2 0.8 Bank borrowings 10.5 0.1 Derivative financial assets 5.2 0.7 5.2 0.4 Derivative financial liabilities 0.3 210.7 267.3 5.4 1.2 Due after one year Deferred bank borrowings arrangement fees 247.2 0.5 247.2 Bonds 499.4 499.5 499.4 499.5 Derivative financial liabilities 2.1 12.9 2.1 12.9 Total net debt 538.0 244.6 743.3 511.2 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Decrease increase in cash in the year 42.9 46.7 0.6 0.7 Bank loan repayments less new drawings 224.3 104.6 247.2 103.8 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 267.2 151.3 247.8 104.5 Foreign exchange movements 7.7 0.1 2.4 Movement on derivative financial assets and liabilities 15.6 5.9 15.6 5.9 Bond valuation adjustment 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Acquired debt 34.2 Net debt at the start of the year 244.6 402.0 511.2 624.1 Net debt at the end of the year 538.0 244.6 743.3 511.2 25.
Provisions Property Group m 1 April 2010 33.9 Utilised during the year 3.9 Interest on discounted provision 1.5 31 March 2011 31.5 Utilised during the period 3.8 Interest on discounted provision 1.4 Acquired during the year 1.0 31 March 2012 30.1 Current 2.5 Non-current 27.6 31 March 2012 30.1 The property provision represents the estimated net present value of future costs for lease rentals and dilapidation costs less the expected receipts from sub-letting space which is surplus to business requirements.
The leases have between two and 16 years to expiry.
The Company has no provisions.
104 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 26.
Ordinary share capital 2012 2011 Authorised millions m millions m 79 Ordinary shares of 6 271.1 18.8 271.1 18.8 86p More information about the shares and rights attached to the ordinary shares is given in the Directors Report on pages 64 and 65.
Net cash flow generated from operations Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Profit before taxation 639.7 238.2 136.8 123.9 Depreciation and amortisation 95.3 96.7 Property impairment 2.7 2.5 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 Profit on acquisition disposal of shares in subsidiary and joint venture 323.8 Net finance expense income 42.6 44.8 187.3 140.5 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures 3.5 13.1 Increase decrease in inventories 0.9 0.7 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 13.8 5.2 1.0 3.7 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 2.9 13.9 2.1 0.4 Decrease increase in CCP financial assets 7,702.5 30,334.8 Decrease increase in CCP clearing business liabilities 7,709.8 30,325.1 Defined benefit pension obligation contributions lower than in excess of expenses charged 0.2 0.9 Provisions utilised during the year 3.8 3.9 Increase decrease in assets held at fair value from operating activities 6.7 0.7 Share scheme expense 12.1 5.0 Foreign exchange losses gains on operating activities 0.9 2.1 27.0 3.4 Cash generated from absorbed by operations 462.4 381.8 22.4 9.9 Comprising: Ongoing operating activities 483.7 394.4 4.2 7.5 Nonrecurring items 21.3 12.6 18.2 2.4 462.4 381.8 22.4 9.9 28.
Commitments and contingent liabilities Contracted capital commitments and other contracted commitments not provided for in the financial statements of the Group were 5.6m 2011: 2.5m and 13.5m 2011: 23.8m respectively.
13.5m other contracted commitments represent professional and other fees relating to the proposed transaction with LCH.
Clearnet, the majority of which are conditional on completion.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 105 29. Business combinations Acquisitions in the year to 31 March 2012 In the year to 31 March 2012 the Group made two acquisitions involving the acquisition of an additional 50 per cent of the issued share capital of FTSE International Limited and purchase of the entire business of the Transaction Reporting Service.
Contribution post-acquisition Consideration including fair value adjustment Fair value of existing of assets Operating Date acquired interest Goodwill acquired Revenue profit loss Acquisition m m m m m FTSE International Limited 16 December 2011 757.1 75.6 681.5 37.3 6.6 Transaction Reporting Service 24 October 2011 15.0 15.0 1.4 0.9 Total 772.1 75.6 696.5 38.7 7.5 If both acquisitions had occurred on 1 April 2011, estimated Group revenue for the year would have been 782.8m, with operating profit before acquisition amortisation and exceptional items of 471.2m.
These amounts have been calculated using the Groups accounting policies and based on available information.
The assets and liabilities arising out of each acquisition at the relevant acquisition date are as follows: FTSE TRS Total Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m m m Non-current assets: Intangible assets 59.6 765.4 16.2 59.6 781.6 Property, plant and equipment 5.8 5.8 5.8 5.8 Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 7.6 7.6 7.6 7.6 Other current assets 43.0 43.0 43.0 43.0 Current liabilities: Other current liabilities 59.8 59.8 59.8 59.8 Non-current liabilities: Borrowings 34.2 34.2 34.2 34.2 Other non-current liabilities 1.0 46.3 1.2 1.0 47.5 Net assets 21.0 681.5 15.0 21.0 696.5 Goodwill 75.6 75.6 Fair value adjustments to investment in original holdings 329.2 329.2 Total consideration 21.0 427.9 15.0 21.0 442.9 Satisfied by: Cash 427.9 15.0 442.9 The fair values are preliminary and will be finalised during the following financial year.
The fair value adjustments include: FTSE International Limited The 837.0m of intangible assets arising on consolidation includes 453.0m relating to the FTSE trademark and 308.4m of customer contracts and customer relationships.
The fair values of these purchased intangible assets are being amortised over their useful economic lives, which do not normally exceed 25 years.
The goodwill of 75.6m arising on consolidation represents the growth potential of FTSE through future expected income from new customers now that it is fully part of the Group and its assembled workforce.
Transaction Reporting Services The 16.2m of intangible assets arising on consolidation represents customer relationships.
The fair values of these purchased intangible assets are being amortised over their useful economic lives of 20 years.
106 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 30.
Leases The Group leases various office properties and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases.
The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are due as follows: Property Equipment 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Less than one year 24.9 21.0 3.1 3.1 More than one year and less than five years 80.3 78.4 1.6 3.4 More than five years 99.6 112.4 204.8 211.8 4.7 6.5 Operating lease payments of 21.5m 2011: 20.8m were charged to the income statement in the year in relation to property and 3.4m 2011: 3.9m in the year in relation to equipment.
The total future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases for property where the Group is lessor are due as follows: Group 2012 2011 m m Less than one year 4.6 4.4 More than one year and less than five years 17.0 18.1 More than five years 11.2 14.7 32.8 37.2 The Company has no lease commitments.
Share schemes The London Stock Exchange Group Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, approved at the 2004 AGM, has two elements, a conditional award of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked to investment by the executive of annual bonus in the Companys shares.
Vesting of these awards is dependent upon the Companys total shareholder return performance and for awards made since 2008 adjusted basic earnings per share.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 63.
Under the Groups previous share option plan approved by shareholders in 2002, the maximum value of shares placed under option to an individual was equivalent to 100 per cent of their annual salary.
No further awards will be made under this scheme.
Prior to 2002, under the previous long-term incentive scheme comprising the Initial and Annual Share Plans option grants and share awards were made based on approvals prior to the Groups listing in July 2001.
No further option grants or share awards will be made under this scheme apart from the SAYE scheme available to all staff.
Under both the Initial and Annual Share Plan, share awards have a vesting period of three years and share options become exercisable at 20 per cent per annum over five years with a contractual life of 10 years.
The SAYE scheme and International Sharesave Plan provide for grants of options to employees who enter into a SAYE savings contract and options were granted at 20 per cent below fair market value.
Share awards were granted at nil cost to employees and other share options were granted at fair market value or above.
The Group established an ESOP discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire the shares to meet commitments to Group employees.
At the year end 1,215,289 2011: 1,867,465 shares were held by the trust, funded by an interest free loan from the Group.
The Company has no employees, but in accordance with SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities has the obligation for the assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOP trust and these have been consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
The cost of the Groups shares held by the trust are deducted from retained earnings.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 107 Movements in the number of share options and awards outstanding and their weighted average exercise prices are as follows: Share options SAYE Scheme LTIP Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average Number exercise price Number exercise price Number exercise price At 1 April 2010 1,328,497 3.32 444,971 5.79 4,651,632 Granted 100,674 7.00 2,504,605 Exercised 968,863 3.22 25,194 5.69 5,676 Forfeited 14,956 5.49 87,821 6.18 1,533,627 At 31 March 2011 445,352 4.30 331,956 5.69 5,616,934 Granted 61,448 9.71 489,271 6.13 1,945,642 Exercised 100,704 3.77 313,773 5.69 234,193 Forfeited 1,856 3.45 18,183 5.69 1,235,072 At 31 March 2012 404,240 5.26 489,271 6.13 6,093,311 Exercisable at: 31 March 2012 198,718 1.74 31 March 2011 299,422 2.43 The weighted average share price of London Stock Exchange Group plc shares during the year was 8.94 2011: 7.36.
The range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life of awards and options outstanding are as follows: 2012 2011 Weighted Weighted average average Number remaining Number remaining outstanding contractual life outstanding contractual life Exercise price range Years Years Share options Up to 3 Between 3 and 4 250,686 1.8 353,246 2.6 Above 4 153,554 3.3 92,106 2.0 SAYE Between 5 and 6 331,956 0.4 Above 10 489,271 2.8 LTIP Nil 6,093,311 1.3 5,616,934 1.6 Total 6,986,822 1.7 6,394,242 1.7 The fair value of share awards and share options granted during the year was determined using a stochastic valuation model.
The key assumptions used in the valuation were as follows: Performance Related Equity Plans Matching Performance Restricted Market Value Share Save Plan Shares Shares Shares Options 13 Jan 2012 13 Jul 2011 3 Jun 2011 3 Jun 2011 3 Jun 2011 Grant date share price 8.54 10.50 9.72 9.72 9.72 Exercise price 6.13 n. a n. a n. a 9.71 Volatility 39% 50% 51% 51% 51% Expected life 3.13 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 4 years Dividend yield 3.20% 2.60% 2.80% 2.80% 2.80% Fair value 2.81 Fair value TSR 4.98 4.63 4.76 2.84 Fair value EPS 9.71 8.93 8.93 3.33 The volatility assumption is based on a statistical analysis of weekly share prices since the London Stock Exchanges flotation in July 2001.
The fair value for the Performance and Matching Shares granted during the year is based on a Total Shareholder Return TSR pricing model which takes into account of the TSR vesting condition.
The fair value of all other shares granted is based on a Black-Scholes model.
Holders of share awards and share options are not entitled to receive dividends declared during the vesting period.
108 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 32.
Transactions with related parties Key management compensation Compensation for Directors of the Company and key personnel who have authority for planning, directing and controlling the Group: 2012 2011 m m Salaries and other short term benefits 9.0 8.6 Pensions 0.4 0.4 Share based payments 0.2 0.7 9.6 9.7 Inter-company transactions with subsidiary undertakings The Company has loan agreements with some subsidiary undertakings.
Details as at 31 March 2012 are shown in the table below: Amount in millions due Interest in millions from owed to as at 31 March credit charge Interest rate as at Loan counterparty 2012 2011 Term 31 March 2012 2012 2011 London Stock 236.5 m 183.5 m 25 years from May 2006 with LIBOR plus 4.0 m 8.3 m Exchange plc five equal annual repayments 2% per annum commencing in May 2027.
London Stock Exchange 10.9m 15.6m Repayable on demand.
Non-interest nil nil Employee Benefit Trust bearing London Stock Exchange 450.0m 450.0m Five years from March 2009, EURIBOR plus 27.5m 21.8m Group Holdings Italy repayable in full on maturity 4.0%per annum Limited Italian Branch in March2014.
London Stock Exchange 122.0m 120.5m 20 years from January 2008 EURIBOR plus 3.9m 2.7m Group Holdings Italy with five equal repayments 1.2%per annum Limited Italian Branch commencing in January 2024.
London Stock Exchange 461.1m 28.6m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 6.7m 1.7m Group Holdings Limited utilisation date which was 4.0% per annum October2009.
London Stock Exchange 0.6m nil Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus nil nil Group Holdings R utilisation date which was 1.5% per annum Limited April 2011.
Cassa di Compensazione 40.0 m nil One year from initial utilisation EURIBOR plus 0.1 m nil eGaranzia S. p. A. date which was January 2012.
1.2%per annum Monte Titoli S. p. A.
18.2 m nil One year from initial utilisation EURIBOR plus nil nil date which was January 2012.
1.2%per annum Societa Mercato Titoli 5.7 m nil One year from initial utilisation EURIBOR plus nil nil diStato S. p. A. date which was January 2012.
1.2%per annum During the year the Company charged in respect of employee share schemes 8.8m 2011: 3.1m to London Stock Exchange plc, 2.8m 2011: 1.7m to London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy Ltd and 0.5m 2011: 0.3m to Millennium Information Technologies Ltd.
The Company received dividends of 121.8m 2011: 123.3m and 90.0m 2011: 55.0m respectively from its subsidiaries London Stock Exchange plc and London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy Limited.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Group financial statements Annual Report 2012 109 33.
Other statutory information Auditors remuneration payable to  LLP and its associates comprise the following: 2012 2011 m m Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.2 Audit of subsidiary companies 0.9 0.8 Other audit related 0.3 0.2 Other fees: Taxation 0.1 0.3 Corporate finance 2.8 0.3 Other assurance services 0.4 Total expenses 4.3 2.2 Further details of the services provided by  are given in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on page53.
Directors emoluments comprise the following: 2012 2011 m m Salary and fees 2.5 2.6 Performance bonus 2.6 2.2 Benefits 0.1 0.1 5.2 4.9 Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 0.3 0.1 5.5 5.0 During the year two Directors 2011: two had retirement benefits accruing under defined contribution schemes and no Director 2011: none had retirement benefits accruing under a defined benefit scheme.
Further details of Directors emoluments are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 63.
Post balance sheet events On 9 March 2012, the Company and LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited announced a recommended cash offer for the Company to take a majority stake in LCH.
On 30 March 2012, the Company and LCH.
Clearnet announced that the acceptance condition in respect of the offer had been satisfied and on 13 April 2012, the offer closed to further acceptances with final total acceptances in respect of the offer of 71.52 per cent of the LCH.
In accordance with the terms of the offer, certain accepting LCH.
Clearnet shareholders will have their acceptances scaled back so that, following completion and including the stake acquired from MF Global described below, LSEG will hold 60 per cent of the LCH.
On 13 April 2012, the Company purchased 970,656 LCH.
Clearnet Shares held by MF Global UK Limited in special administration, representing 2.39 per cent of the LCH.
Clearnet issued share capital at an initial price of 14 per LCH.
MF Global remains entitled to additional consideration that may become payable on the terms summarised in LSEGs offer announcement of 9 March 2012.
On 3 April 2012, the shareholders of both the Company and LCH.
Clearnet voted overwhelmingly in favour of the offer and completion of the transaction is expected by the fourth quarter of calendar 2012, subject to regulatory and other approvals, including competition clearance.
