105 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Shareholder information In this section we have provided somekey information to assist you in managing your shareholding in Man.
If you have a question that is not answered below, you can contact us by email: shareholder@man.
com Useful website details New Group holding company References are made throughout this section to the Shareholder On 6 November 2012 a new listed holding company was put in place for Information section of Mans corporate website and Equinitis Shareview the Group by means of a scheme of arrangement please see page 90 website.
The Shareholder Information pages can be found by visiting forfurther information.
Shareholders received, for every ordinary share www.
com and clicking on Investor Relations Shareholder they held in the former holding company, one ordinary share in the new Information.
For access to Equinitis Shareview website, please visit holding company, which has the same name as its predecessor, Man www.
co. uk shareholders Group plc.
Following this transaction, shareholders who held their shares in paper form received a new share certificate.
All old share certificates blue in colour were cancelled and should be destroyed.
The new share certificates, which are white in colour and show the new registered company number 08172396, are now the only valid share certificates for Man Group plc.
For the majority of shareholders this transaction is anticipated to have been tax neutral.
More detailed information on the tax position for UK and Dividend US based shareholders can be found in the related shareholder circular, which is available on the Shareholder Information section of Mans corporate website under General Meetings.
Shareholders are pence per recommended to contact their own tax advisor for specific advice ontheir tax position.
8.26 share Dividends Final dividend for the year Final dividend for the year-ended 31 December 2012.
The directors have recommended a final dividend of 8.26 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012.
Payment of this dividend is subject to approval at the 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Key dates relating to this dividend are given below: Ex-dividend date 24 April 2013 Record date 26 April 2013 DRIP election date 26 April 2013 AGM to approve final dividend 3 May 2013 Payment date 17 May 2013 DRIP certificates received CREST accounts credited 23 May 2013 Future dividend policy Going forward Mans dividend policy is to pay out at least 100% of adjusted management fee earnings per share in each financial year by way of ordinary dividend.
In addition, the Group expects to generate significant surplus capital over time, primarily from net performance fee earnings.
Available surpluses, after taking into account our required capital, potential strategic opportunities and a prudent buffer, will be distributed to shareholders over time, by way of higher dividend payments and or share repurchases.
Whilst the Board continues to consider dividends as the primary method of returning capital to shareholders, itwillcontinue to execute share repurchases when advantageous.
106 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Shareholder information continued Amount per Ex-dividend DRIP share DRIP purchase Dividends paid in the 2012 13 tax year Dividend no Payment date share p date Record date price p date Interim dividend for the year ended 31 Dec 2012 O 11 04 09 12 6.12 15 09 12 17 09 12 73.85 04 09 12 Final dividend for the period ended 31 Dec 2011 O 10 17 05 12 4.38 25 04 12 27 04 12 78.87 17 05 12 Dividend history Shareholder communications To help shareholders with their tax affairs, details of dividends paid in the2012 13 tax year can be found above.
Please note that the dividend Annual and Interim Reports amounts are declared in US Dollars but paid in Sterling.
For ease of Man publishes an Annual and Interim Report every year.
The reference the Sterling dividend amounts have been detailed in the table.
AnnualReport is sent to shareholders in March through the post as aprinted document unless the shareholder has chosen to receive For details of historical payments, please refer to the dividend section of our e-communications either direct to their email address see below or via a corporate website, which can be found under Shareholder Information.
letter informing them that the Annual Report is available to view on Mans corporate website.
The interim report is published on the website in July Dividend payment methods and a printed copy is available from the Company Secretary on request.
You can choose to receive your dividend in a number of ways.
Dividends will automatically be paid to you by cheque and sent to your registered address unless you have chosen one of the options below: @ E-communications The Company offers shareholders the opportunity to access 1.
Direct payment to your bank: We recommend that you apply shareholderdocuments, such as annual reports and notices of AGMs, forcash dividends to be paid directly into your UK bank or building via e-communications rather than receiving printed documents in the society account.
This is more convenient and helps reduce the risk post.
To sign up for e-communications, please register on Equinitis ofcheques becoming lost or delayed in the post.
In order to do this, you will need your shareholder reference voucher will still be sent direct to your registered address.
To switch number which can be found on your share certificate or on your dividend tothis method of payment you can download a dividend mandate tax voucher.
Once registered, you will need to change your mailing form from the Dividends section of our corporate website, under preference to e-communications and provide your email address.
We will Shareholder Information, or from our Registrars Equiniti Shareview then be able to notify you by email as soon as shareholder documents 1 website.
Alternatively, you can contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2112, are available on Mans corporate website.
who will be able to assist with any questions you may have.
Overseas payment service : If you live overseas, Equiniti offers Corporate website www.
com anOverseas Payment Service which is available in certain countries.
Shareholders are encouraged to visit Mans corporate website which This may make it possible to receive dividends direct into your bank contains a wealth of information about Man.
The website includes account in your local currency.
Further information can be found on information about the industry in which we operate, our strategy 1 the Shareview website or via the Equiniti helpline 0871 384 2112. andbusiness performance, recent news from Man and corporate responsibility initiatives.
The Investor Relations section is a key tool for 3. Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP : The Company offers a DRIP shareholders with information on the share price, our financial results, which gives shareholders the opportunity to use their dividend to shareholder meetings and dividends, as well as a Frequently asked purchase further Man shares.
Instead of receiving cash, shareholders questions section.
You can also download current and past annual and receive as many whole shares as can be bought with their dividend, interim reports.
taking into account related purchase costs.
Any residual cash will be carried forward and added to their next dividend.
Shareholder registration and enquiries Man Groups register of shareholders is maintained by Equiniti as the If you wish to join the DRIP, you can download copies of the DRIP terms Companys Registrars.
Many aspects of managing your shareholding, and conditions and the DRIP mandate form from the Dividend pages such as updating your personal details and checking your shareholding ofMans website which can be found under Shareholder Information.
and dividend payments, can be done by logging on to Equinitis website.
Simply complete the DRIP mandate form and return it to Equiniti.
Should To do this, you will need your shareholder reference number which can you have any questions on the DRIP or would like a paper mandate form be found on your share certificate or dividend tax voucher.
1 to be sent to you, please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2268.
Please note that if you wish to join the DRIP in time for the payment of the forthcoming For enquiries about your shareholding, you can also contact Equiniti in final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012, our Registrars, writing at Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex Equiniti, must have received the instruction by 26 April 2013.
Instructions 1 BN99 6DA, or by telephone on 0871 384 2112 or Text tel 0871 384 received by Equiniti after this date will be applied to the next dividend 1 2255, quoting Ref No 874.
Callers from outside the UK should telephone payment.
Notes: Share dealing service 1 Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, each business day.
Calls to this number are You can buy shares through any authorised stockbroker or bank that charged at 8 pence per minute plus network extras.
2 Please note that a payment charge will be deducted from each individual payment offers a share dealing service in the UK, or in your country of residence before conversion into your local currency.
Equiniti provides a share dealing service which is available to purchase or sell Man Group plc shares in the UK.
The service is provided by Equiniti Financial Services Limited and can be accessed via the dealing section of the Shareview website www.
To use Equinitis telephone dealing service, please call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm Monday to Friday.
107 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Shareholder alerts Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Share or investment scams are often run from boiler rooms where fraudsters cold-call investors offering them worthless, overpriced or even non-existent shares, or offer to buy their shares in a company at a higher price than the market value.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about the Company.
Even seasoned investors have been caught out by such fraudsters and it is estimated that 200 million is lost in this way in the UK each year.
The FSA have some helpful information about such scams on their website, including 10 top tips to protect your savings and how to report a suspected investment scam.
Man encourages shareholders to read the information on the site which can be accessed at www.
Registered office: Man Group plc Riverbank House 2 Swan Lane London EC4R 3AD Telephone: 020 7144 1000 Fax: 020 7144 1923 Registered in England and Wales with registered no: 08172396 Company contacts Investor relations investor@man.
com Head of Investor Relations Fiona Smart Company secretariat shareholder@man.
com Company Secretary Rachel Rowson Company advisors Auditors  LLP Corporate brokers Bank of America Merrill Lynch Credit Suisse Goldman Sachs Public relations RLM Finsbury
