104 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Independent auditors report to the members of Man Group plc on the Parent Company financial statements We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Man Group Matters on which we are required to report by exception plc for the period ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Parent We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Company Balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Accepted Accounting Practice.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility statement set out Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the on page 65, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent accounting records and returns: or Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the made: or Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law we have not received all the information and explanations we require and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Man Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2012.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into Richard Oldfield Senior Statutory Auditor whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior for and on behalf of  LLP consent in writing.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London Scope of the audit of the financial statements 28 February 2013 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Man Group plc Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31December 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors report for the financial period for which the Parent Company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
