70 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements continued Notes to the Group financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation Scheme of arrangement On 6 November 2012, under a scheme of arrangement between Man Strategic Holdings plc formally Man Group plc, the former holding company of the Group, and its shareholders under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006, and as sanctioned by the High Court, all the issued ordinary shares in that company were cancelled and the same number of new ordinary shares were issued to Man Group plc the new holding company in consideration for the allotment to shareholders of one ordinary share in Man Group plc for each ordinary share they held in Man Strategic Holdings plc.
The scheme of arrangement is treated as a capital reorganisation.
The consequence is that the Man Group has not fundamentally changed in any way, and no fair value adjustments have been made and no goodwill has been recognised.
Change in reporting period During 2011 we announced the decision to change our financial year end to a calendar year to align our financial reporting with that of our funds and the asset management industry generally.
We are therefore reporting our financial position and our results as at and for the 12 months ended 31 December 2012.
For comparative purposes we are required to disclose our results for the nine months ended 31 December 2011.
Acquisition of FRM The acquisition of FRM was completed on 17 July 2012, and therefore the results for the 12 months ended 31 December 2012 include 5.5 months of results for the acquired FRM business.
More information can be found in Note 12.
Accounting policies The audited consolidated financial information has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations IFRICs as adopted by the EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Mans principal accounting policies have been consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements.
Accounting policies are included in the relevant sections, and significant policies are provided below.
The impact of new accounting standards and amendments applicable to Mans year ended 31 December 2012 and accounting standards that are not yet effective is outlined below.
Consolidated group and reporting currency The consolidated group is Man Group plc and its subsidiaries Man.
The stand-alone parent company financial statements of Man Group plc have been included as separate financial statements, starting on page 101.
The majority of revenues, assets, liabilities and funding are denominated in US dollars USD and therefore Mans reporting currency is USD.
Judgemental areas and accounting estimates The most significant area of judgement is the allocation and evaluation of goodwill and intangible assets, in particular the goodwill in relation to the GLG acquisition Note 12 and the carrying value of capitalised product placement fees Note 13.
The valuation of the goodwill and intangibles has been an area of focus for the Group Board, and in particular the Audit and Risk Committee, during the year.
The report of the chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee discussed the involvement of the Committee in this evaluation on page 35.
Other areas of significant judgement are: the determination of fair values for investments: deferred compensation awards: and pension obligations.
Going concern Mans business activity is discussed on pages 1 to 25, together with the significant risk factors pages 22 to 25.
Mans liquidity and capital positions are set out in Note 14 and 21 respectively.
The directors monitor Mans capital and liquidity positions and forecasts throughout the year, and in addition they have approved a budget, medium term financial plan, and a capital and liquidity plan, which cover the foreseeable future and include analysis of stressed capital and liquidity scenarios.
The directors have concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that Man has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the consolidated and parent financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis using the historical cost convention, except for the measurement at fair value of certain financial instruments that are available-for-sale or held at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial reporting controls The Companys systems of internal control aim to safeguard assets, ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, and ensure that the financial information used in the business and published externally is robust and reliable.
The financial reporting controls comply with the guidance given in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The Corporate governance report is provided on pages 26 to 39.
Independent audit The independent auditors report from PwC on page 99 expresses an unqualified opinion.
