70 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements continued Notes to the Group financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation Scheme of arrangement On 6 November 2012, under a scheme of arrangement between Man Strategic Holdings plc formally Man Group plc, the former holding company of the Group, and its shareholders under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006, and as sanctioned by the High Court, all the issued ordinary shares in that company were cancelled and the same number of new ordinary shares were issued to Man Group plc the new holding company in consideration for the allotment to shareholders of one ordinary share in Man Group plc for each ordinary share they held in Man Strategic Holdings plc.
The scheme of arrangement is treated as a capital reorganisation.
The consequence is that the Man Group has not fundamentally changed in any way, and no fair value adjustments have been made and no goodwill has been recognised.
Change in reporting period During 2011 we announced the decision to change our financial year end to a calendar year to align our financial reporting with that of our funds and the asset management industry generally.
We are therefore reporting our financial position and our results as at and for the 12 months ended 31 December 2012.
For comparative purposes we are required to disclose our results for the nine months ended 31 December 2011.
Acquisition of FRM The acquisition of FRM was completed on 17 July 2012, and therefore the results for the 12 months ended 31 December 2012 include 5.5 months of results for the acquired FRM business.
More information can be found in Note 12.
Accounting policies The audited consolidated financial information has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations IFRICs as adopted by the EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Mans principal accounting policies have been consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements.
Accounting policies are included in the relevant sections, and significant policies are provided below.
The impact of new accounting standards and amendments applicable to Mans year ended 31 December 2012 and accounting standards that are not yet effective is outlined below.
Consolidated group and reporting currency The consolidated group is Man Group plc and its subsidiaries Man.
The stand-alone parent company financial statements of Man Group plc have been included as separate financial statements, starting on page 101.
The majority of revenues, assets, liabilities and funding are denominated in US dollars USD and therefore Mans reporting currency is USD.
Judgemental areas and accounting estimates The most significant area of judgement is the allocation and evaluation of goodwill and intangible assets, in particular the goodwill in relation to the GLG acquisition Note 12 and the carrying value of capitalised product placement fees Note 13.
The valuation of the goodwill and intangibles has been an area of focus for the Group Board, and in particular the Audit and Risk Committee, during the year.
The report of the chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee discussed the involvement of the Committee in this evaluation on page 35.
Other areas of significant judgement are: the determination of fair values for investments: deferred compensation awards: and pension obligations.
Going concern Mans business activity is discussed on pages 1 to 25, together with the significant risk factors pages 22 to 25.
Mans liquidity and capital positions are set out in Note 14 and 21 respectively.
The directors monitor Mans capital and liquidity positions and forecasts throughout the year, and in addition they have approved a budget, medium term financial plan, and a capital and liquidity plan, which cover the foreseeable future and include analysis of stressed capital and liquidity scenarios.
The directors have concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that Man has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the consolidated and parent financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis using the historical cost convention, except for the measurement at fair value of certain financial instruments that are available-for-sale or held at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial reporting controls The Companys systems of internal control aim to safeguard assets, ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, and ensure that the financial information used in the business and published externally is robust and reliable.
The financial reporting controls comply with the guidance given in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The Corporate governance report is provided on pages 26 to 39.
Independent audit The independent auditors report from PwC on page 99 expresses an unqualified opinion.
71 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 1.
Basis of preparation continued Mans relationship with independent fund entities Man acts as the investment manager advisor to fund entities.
Having considered all significant aspects of Mans relationships with fund entities, the directors are of the opinion that, although Man may have significant influence over the fund entities, the existence of independent boards of directors at the fund entities: termination provisions in the investment management agreements, which allow for the removal of the investment manager advisor: the influence of investors: and, the arms length nature of Mans contracts with the fund entities: Man does not control the fund entities and their associated assets, liabilities and net income should not be consolidated into Mans financial statements.
An understanding of the aggregate funds under management and the fees earned from the fund entities is relevant to an understanding of Mans results and earnings sustainability and this information is provided in the Chief Financial Officers review on page 10.
Significant accounting policies schedule Policy Note Page Goodwill 12 77 Other Intangible assets Investment management contracts, distribution channels and brand names 12 77 Placement fees 13 82 Capitalised software 13 82 Investment in fund products 15 84 Investments in associates 18 86 Revenue 3 73 Compensation share-based payments 20 87 Compensation restructuring 2 72 Pension benefits 22 92 Impact of new accounting standards A number of amendments to existing standards and interpretations have been issued, some of which were mandatory for the year beginning 1 January 2012, with the remaining becoming effective in future periods.
The relevant new standards adopted by Man in the current year, which have not had a significant impact, are: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendments enhancing disclosures about transfers of financial assets IAS 12 Income Taxes Limited scope amendment recovery of underlying assets IAS 19 Revised Employee benefits is effective from 1 January 2013.
The majority of the impact will be recorded as an adjustment to equity on transition in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors to reflect the change in accounting treatment of Mans defined benefit pension plans, of which the principal change is to cease to apply the corridor approach.
The adoption of the revised standard will have the following impact: a $71 million debit to profit and loss reserves on 1 January 2012, net of tax: an increased charge of $3 million before tax in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012: an additional charge of $13 million before tax through Other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2012: a reduction in net pension assets recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2012 of $110 million to give a net pension liability of $4 million: and a decrease of $26 million in the deferred tax liability at 31 December 2012.
Other new or revised standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective include those listed below.
None of these are expected to have a significant impact of the financial statements of Man: IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 Fair value measurement IAS 27 revised 2011 Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 revised 2011 Investments in Joint Ventures and Associates 2011 Annual Improvements Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation on asset and liability offsetting IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
