102 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Notes to the Company financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom issued by the Accounting Standards Board and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The financial statements are prepared from the date of incorporation 8 August 2012 to 31 December 2012.
As such no comparatives are provided.
The Company reviews and updates its accounting policies on a regular basis in accordance with FRS 18.
These policies have been applied consistently throughout the period.
The Company has adopted FRS 29 and has taken advantage of the exemption from providing further financial riskdisclosures.
Scheme of arrangement Man Group plc was incorporated on 8 August 2012 and became the new listed holding company of the Man Group on 6 November 2012 via a Court approved scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006, with the former holding company being renamed Man Strategic Holdings plc.
Under the scheme of arrangement, shares in the former holding company of the Group, were cancelled and the same number of new ordinary shares were issued to the new holding company in consideration for the allotment to shareholders of one ordinary share of $1.07 in the new holding company 3 for each ordinary share of 3 US cents they held in the former holding company.
7 On 8 November 2012, Man Group plc effected a reduction of its share capital to create distributable reserves, as sanctioned by the High Court.
This 3 capital reduction reduced the nominal value of ordinary shares in the new holding company from $1.07 to 3 US cents.
7 Result for the period The loss after tax for the financial period was $6 million.
In accordance with Section 408 of the Act, a separate profit and loss account has not been presented for the Company.
There are no recognised gains and losses other than the result for the period and hence no statement of recognised gains and losses for the Company has been presented.
Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction or, where it is more practical, an average rate for the week or month for all transactions in each foreign currency occurring during that week or month as long as the relevant exchange rates do not fluctuate significantly.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at period end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in other operating income and losses in the profit and loss account.
Dividends Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the financial statements, and directly in equity, in the period in which the dividend is paid or approved by the Companys shareholders, if required.
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings are recognised in the period in which they are received.
Refer to Note 11 in the consolidated financial statements for more information on dividends paid during the period.
Investments 31 December $m 2012 Investments in subsidiaries At 8 August 2012 Additions 2,439 Share-based payment 6 At 31 December 2012 2,445 The Companys shares in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the balance sheet of the Company at cost less provision for any impairment incurred.
The additions relate to the Companys investment in Man Strategic Holdings plc, when it became the new group holding company on 6 November 2012 under the scheme of arrangement, as described in Note 1.
Details of the principal Group subsidiaries are given on page 98.
