Glossary 150 Active player days aggregate number of days in the given period in which active players have contributed to rake and or placed a wager.
This can be calculated by multiplying average active players by the number of days in the period active player or active real money in relation to the Groups products, a player who has contributed to rake and or placed a wager Annual Report the Companys financial statements and accompanying reports for the year ended 31 December 2012 average active players or the daily average number of players who contributed to rake and or placed a wager in the given period.
Daily average players Thiscan be calculated by dividing active player days in the given period, by the number ofdays in that period B2B business-to-business B2C business-to-consumer Board or Directors the Directors listed on the Companys website, www.
com bwin bwin Interactive Entertainment AG, its subsidiaries and its associated companies bwin.
party digital entertainment plc, the name of the Group formed by the Merger of PartyGaming Plc and bwin Interactive Entertainment AG bwin.
party Shares the Companys existing Shares and the new shares issued to the bwin shareholders in conjunction with the completion of the merger Cashcade Cashcade Limited and its subsidiaries Clean EBITDA and Clean EPS EBITDA EPS before the provision for costs associated with the Groups Non-Prosecution Agreement, reorganisation expenses, merger and acquisition costs, share-based payments, exchange differences, retroactive tax charges, loss on disposal of assets held for sale and amortisation and impairments onacquisitions Company or PartyGaming PartyGaming Plc prior to completion of the Merger and bwin.
party digital entertainment plc bwin.
party after the merger Discontinued operations Ongames B2B business as well as operations located physically outside of the US but which relate to customers in the US and were terminated following the enactment of the UIGEA on 13 October 2006 EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Employee Trust the bwin.
party Shares Trust, a discretionary share ownership trust established by the Company in which thepotential bene ciaries include all of the current and former employees and self-employed consultants ofthe Group Foxy Bingo www.
com, one of Europes largest active bingo sites that was acquired as part of the purchase ofCashcade FTSE4good Index Series a benchmark of tradeable indices for responsible investors.
The index is derived from the globally recognised FTSE Global Equity Index Series Gioco Digitale www.
it, one of the Groups principal bingo websites gross win margin gross win as a percentage of the amount wagered gross win customer stakes less customer winning Group or bwin.
party Group the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings IAS International Accounting Standards IASB International Accounting Standards Board IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards InterTrader our financial markets service, formerly known as PartyMarkets.
com KPIs Key Performance Indicators such as active player days and yield per active player day Merger the merger of bwin Interactive Entertainment AG and PartyGaming Plc that was completed on 31March 2011, accounted for under IFRS 3 as an acquisition of bwin new player sign-ups new players who register on the Groups real money sites NPA the Non-Prosecution Agreement entered into by the Group and the US Attorneys Of ce for the Southern District of New York the USAO on 6 April 2009.
Under the terms of the agreement, theUSAO will not prosecute the Group for providing internet gambling services to customers in the US prior to the enactment of the UIGEA bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements Information General Meeting 151 PartyCasino www.
com, the Groups principal casino website PartyPoker www.
com, the Groups principal poker website player or unique active player customers who placed a wager or generated rake in the period rake the money charged by the Group for each qualifying poker hand played on its websites in accordance with the prevailing and applicable rake structure real money sign-ups or sign-ups new players who have registered and deposited funds into an account with real money gambling where money is wagered, as opposed to play money where no money is wagered Regulatory Process Agreement the Regulatory Process Agreement dated 29 July 2010, as amended, the primary purpose of which istofacilitate the exploitation of certain newly by licensed business opportunities for bwin.
party sports betting placing bets on sporting events UIGEA the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act that was enacted in the US on 13 October 2006 wager a bet on a game or sporting event WIN the Groups Social Gaming business unit established in May 2012 WPT the business and substantially all of the assets of The World Poker Tour acquired by the Group on9November2009 yield per active player day net revenue in the period divided by the number of active player days in that period 152 Design and production by Radley Yeldar www.
com Photography by Michael Harvey Printed by Boss Print bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 For more information visit us online at www.
