Share information 142 Depositary interests bwin.
party has entered into depositary interest arrangements to enable investors to settle and pay for interests in the Companys shares through theCREST system.
CREST is a paperless settlement system allowing securities to be transferred from one persons CREST account to another without the need to use share certi cates or written instruments of transfer.
Securities issued by non-UK companies, such as bwin.
party, cannot be held or transferred in the CREST system.
Under arrangements put in place by the Company, a depositary holds the shares and has issued dematerialised depositary interests representing the underlying shares which are held on trust for the holders of the depositary interests.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited the Depositary, is part of the same group of companies as bwin.
partys registrars, Capita Registrars Jersey Limited the Registrar, and has issued the dematerialised depositary interests.
The depositary interests are independent securities constituted under English law which may be held and transferred through the CREST system.
The depositary interests have been created pursuant to and issued on the terms of a deed poll executed by the Depositary in favour of the holders ofthe depositary interests from time to time the Deed Poll.
As at 31 December 2012, 695,149,755 shares were held by the Depositary in respect of a total 695,149,755 depositary interests.
There were 961 depositary interest holders on the depositary interest register as at that date.
Each depositary interest is treated as one share.
The Depositary will pass on to holders of depositary interests any stock or cash bene ts received byitas the holder of shares on trust.
Depositary interest holders will also be able to receive notices of shareholder meetings and other documents issued by bwin.
The Depositary must pass on to depositary interest holders and, so far as they are reasonably able, exercise on behalf of depositary interest holdersall rights and entitlements received, or to which they are entitled in respect of the underlying shares which are capable of being passed onorexercised.
Rights and entitlements to cash distributions, to information, to make choices and elections and to call for, attend and vote atmeetings shall, subject to the Deed Poll, be passed on in the form in which they are received together with amendments and additional documentation necessary to effect such passing-on, or, as the case may be, exercised in accordance with the Deed Poll.
The depositary interestshavethe same ISIN and SEDOL numbers as the underlying shares and do not have a separate listing on the Of cial List.
Registrar UK Transfer Agents Depositary Capita Registrars Jersey Limited Capita Registrars Capita IRG Trustees Limited 12 Castle Street The Registry The Registry St. Helier 34 Beckenham Road 34 Beckenham Road Jersey JE2 3RT Beckenham Beckenham Channel Islands Kent BR3 4TU Kent BR3 4TU United Kingdom United Kingdom Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Telephone: 44 0 1534 847000 Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Telephone: 0871 664 0300 from UK Fax: 44 0 1534 847001 Telephone: 0871 664 0300 from UK 44 0 208 639 3399 from overseas 44 0 208 639 3399 from overseas Fax: 44 0 208 639 2342 Fax: 44 0 208 639 2342 Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras Dividends Following the announcement on 31 August 2012 in respect of the Companys distribution policy and the disclosure in the Companys half-year results, theBoard declared an interim dividend for the period ended 30 June 2012 of 1.72 pence per share which was distributed to shareholders on 9October 2012.
The Company intends paying a final dividend of 1.72 pence per share, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 19 June 2013.
This final dividend will be paid to shareholders and depositary interest holders on 24 June 2013.
The record date for the final dividend is 24 May 2013 and the shares start trading ex-dividend on 22 May 2013.
In order to assist shareholders and depositary interest holders, the cash dividend may be paid either in pound sterling or euros and should you wish to receive the dividend, and all future dividends, in euros you can elect to do so by following the instructions below.
Dividends paid in euros will be paid at the euro to pound sterling exchange rate prevailing shortly prior to payment, subject to receipt of a currency election card or electronic noti cation via CREST.
If you make no election you will continue to receive your dividend in pound sterling.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements Information General Meeting 143 i Procedure for depositary interest holders If you hold your shares in depositary interest form in CREST and will continue to do so at 5.00 p. m. on the dividend record date and whether or not you have validly elected to receive your dividends in CREST, you may elect to receive your dividend in euro by means of the CREST procedures to effect such an election referred to below.
If you are a CREST Personal Member, or other CREST Sponsored Member, you should consult your CREST sponsor, who will be able to take the appropriate action on your behalf.
The CREST procedures require the use of the Dividend Election Input Message in accordance with the CREST manual.
The message includes the following elds which, for a valid election to be made, must be correctly input as indicated below by close of business on the euro election deadline: i Dividend Election Reference you must indicate here a reference for the dividend election which is unique to your CREST participant I. D. : ii Account I. D. If you have more than one member account, you must indicate the member account I. D. to which the election relates: the relevantaccount must be enabled a at the time your Dividend Election Input Message is entered into CREST, and b on the relevant dividend payment date: iii ISIN This is GI000A0MV757 iv Evergreen This eld must be entered with its ag set to yes.
This requests the Company to apply your election to the current dividend and to all future dividends in respect of your entire depositary interest holding in CREST at each relevant record date until a you delete your Dividend Election Input Message and that deletion is accepted in accordance with the CREST procedures on behalf of the Company, b you transfer your depositary interest holding in CREST, or c the facility is withdrawn by the Directors: v Corporate Action Number This is not to be input: vi Distribution type You must enter currency here: vii Currency code This is GBP: viii Number of shares This eld should be left blank.
If this eld is completed, the message will be rejected: ix Contact details this eld is optional, although you are asked to include details of whom to contact in the event of a query relating to yourelection.
A valid election made by means of Dividend Election Input Message will, to the extent it relates to shares held in depositary interests at the relevant record date, supersede all previous written elections made in respect of holdings in the same member account.
You may only revoke an election which has been made by Dividend Election Input Message by utilising the CREST procedures for deletions described inthe CREST manual.
The deletion will be valid in relation to the then current dividend only if the deletion is accepted, in accordance with the CREST procedures, by or on behalf of the Company prior to close of business on the euro election deadline 31 May 2013 for the final dividend payable on 24June 2013.
With respect to subsequent dividend payments, the valid revocation must be received by the record date for the relevant dividend payment.
It is recommended that you input any deletion message 48 hours in advance of this deadline 31 May 2013 to give the Company or its agentsuf cient time to accept the deletion.
There is no facility to amend an election which has been made by Dividend Election Input Message.
If you wish to change your election details, youmust first delete the existing election as described above and then input a Dividend Election Input Message with the required new details.
Any attempts to send a new Dividend Election Input Message, where an existing Dividend Election Message is present and has not been deleted, willberejected.
Dividend payments will be paid electronically into CREST accounts where possible.
Otherwise where not paid electronically into CREST they willbepaid by cheque, if dividend payments are being paid in pound sterling the enclosed bank mandate form will need to be completed.
If you have any problems making an election through CREST then le a bwin.
party currency election card and send it back to Capita Registrars, tobereceived no later than 31 May 2013.
These documents are also posted on bwin.
Share information 144 ii Procedure for registered shareholders Shareholders wishing to make a euro election should complete and submit a currency election card to the Registrar no later than 31 May 2013. iii General notes Shareholders or depositary interest holders who submit their currency elections after the deadline 31 May 2013 for submission will receive their dividends in pound sterling.
Incorrectly completed currency election cards will be rejected.
Elections may not be split in respect of one share or depositary interest holding and elections are enduring for future dividends unless a subsequent election is submitted to the Registrar or Depositary.
Depositary interest holders who hold their depositary interests through CREST will receive their dividend payments through CREST irrespective ofwhether they elect to have the dividend paid in euro.
Shareholders receiving the dividend in pound sterling are advised to complete a BACS instruction so that their dividend can be paid electronically directly into their bank account.
For the final dividend payable on 24 June 2013 a BACS instruction form should be submitted to the registrar no later than 28 May 2013.
If a BACS instruction is not validly submitted then dividends will be paid by cheque.
iv Final Dividend calendar Final Dividend Ex-dividend date 22 May 2013 Record date 24 May 2013 Euro election deadline 31 May 2013 foreign exchange 4 June 2013 Payable 24 June 2013 Annual General Meeting Date and time: Wednesday, 19 June 2013 at 11.00 a. m. Central European Time.
Venue: The Caleta Hotel, Catalan Bay, Gibraltar.
The Notice of AGM is contained within the Annual Report, setting out the resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
Corporate calendar 31 December 2012 Year-end 15 March 2013 Announcement of 2012 annual results 21 May 2013 Annual Report posted available on the www.
com website Deadline for submitting AGM forms of direction or submitting voting instructions 16 June 2013 via CREST  17 June 2013 Deadline for submitting AGM proxy forms shareholders only 19 June 2013 Annual General Meeting 30 June 2013 Half year-end 31 December 2013 Year-end bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements Information General Meeting 145 Receiving Company documents electronically All shareholder documents can be found on the Companys website, www.
com, together with previous announcements to the London Stock Exchange, share price information and general information about bwin.
partys articles of association allow the Company to provide all shareholder and depositary interest holder documents via its website, except where shareholders and depositary interest holders have requested to receive a hard copy of such documents.
party to limit the environmental impact of our business and to manage our costs more effectively.
If you are currently receiving hard copies of bwin.
partys documents through the post and would like to be kinder to the environment and help reducebwin.
partys costs, you are encouraged to register to receive Company documents via the Companys website.
You can do this by going to the registrars website, www.
com and registering for electronic communications.
You will be noti ed that Company documents are on the corporate website by written noti cation which will be mailed to you unless when registering to receive documents electronically you request to be noti ed by email rather than post.
Company announcements Copies of announcements made by the Company are available on the Companys website, www.
Taxation The following statements are intended to apply only as a general guide to current tax law for an individual shareholder who holds shares as an investment and who is the bene cial owner of the shares.
Shareholders should consult their own tax advisers in connection with their potential liability to pay tax in the country of their nationality or the country where they live on disposal, gift or bequest of their shares or on the receipt ofdividends.
i Taxation of capital gains There is no capital gains tax in Gibraltar on a disposal of shares, but shareholders may be liable to pay tax in the country of their nationality or the country where they live.
ii Stamp duty No stamp duty is chargeable in Gibraltar on the transfer of shares and there is no stamp duty reserve tax in Gibraltar.
partys shares are not registered in any register kept in the UK by or on behalf of the Company, an agreement to transfer the shares would not be expected to be subject to UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax.
party share register is not kept in the UK and it isnot intended that any such register will be kept in the UK.
A transfer on sale of bwin.
party shares would not be expected to be subject to UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax provided that the instrument of transfer is not executed in the UK and does not relate to any property situated or toany matter or thing to be done in the UK.
No UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is expected to be payable on an agreement to transfer bwin.
party depositary interests within CREST provided that relevant conditions are met including in particular that a no register of shares is kept in the UK by or on behalf of the Company: and b the central management and control of the Company is not exercised in the UK.
It is intended that these conditions will be met.
It is not expected that an instrument subject to UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax would be created in respect of such a transfer.
