56 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Glossary of Terms and Definitions Return on Net Assets Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value NAV Total return on net asset value NAV per share, per share on a bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all If the share price of an investment trust is lower than dividends paid out by the Company were reinvested the NAV per share, the shares are said to be trading into the shares of the Company at the NAV per share at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment In accordance with industry practice, dividends trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a payable which have been declared but which are premium.
unpaid at the balance sheet date are deducted from the NAV per share when calculating the return on net Performance Attribution assets.
Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
Return to Shareholders Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to Performance Attribution Definitions: mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends Asset Allocation received were reinvested, without transaction costs, Measures the impact of allocating assets differently into the shares of the Company at the time the to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios shares were quoted ex-dividend.
weighting in different countries, sectors or asset types.
Benchmark Return Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market Stock Selection value to mid-market value basis, assuming that all Measures the effect of investing in securities to a dividends received were reinvested, without greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the transaction costs, into the shares of the underlying benchmark, or of investing in securities which are companies at time the shares were quoted not included in the benchmark.
Cash Effect The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which Measures the impact on relative performance arising should not be taken as wholly representative of the from holding cash balances.
The Companys investment strategy does not track this index and Effect of Management Fee Other Expenses consequently, there may be some divergence The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level between the Companys performance and that of the of total assets, and therefore has a negative effect on benchmark.
Total Expense Ratio TER Interest Expense Management fee and all other operating expenses The payment of interest has a negative effect on excluding finance costs, expressed as a percentage of relative performance.
the average of the month end net assets during the year.
2008 and prior years: the average of the Proposed Dividend Use of Prior Year Revenue Reserve opening and closing net assets.
Measures the negative effect on relative performance of making dividend distributions in excess of the Actual Gearing Factor revenue return after taxation for the year.
Investments expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect of gearing Gearing Effect on the net asset value if the market value of the Measures the impact on relative performance arising portfolio were to increase by 100%.
