ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Investor Information The Companys The Manager Market and Portfolio Information RCM UK Limited, which is authorised and The Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on Ordinary Shares are regulated by the Financial Services Authority, is the London Stock Exchange.
The market price, listed on the London part of Allianz Global Investors, one of the largest price range, gross yield and net asset value are fund managers in the world.
As at 31 December shown daily in The Financial Times and The Daily Stock Exchange.
The 2011, Allianz Global Investors had combined Telegraph.
The net asset value of the Ordinary market price range, assets under management of 1,499 billion.
RCM Shares is calculated daily and published through UK, through its predecessors, has a heritage of the London Stock Exchange Regulatory News gross yield and net investment trust management expertise in the UK Service.
The geographical spread of investments stretching back to the nineteenth century and at and ten largest holdings are also published asset value are shown 31 March 2012 it had 1.07 billion assets under monthly by the London Stock Exchange Regulatory daily in the Financial management in a range of investment trusts.
They are also available from the Investment Managers Investors Helpline on Times and The Daily Website: www.
co. uk 0800 389 4696 or via the Managers website: Telegraph under the www.
Registered Number headings Investment 28276 Share Price Companies and The share price for 31 January 2012 was 363.0p.
Financial Calendar Investment Trusts, Year end 31 January.
Full year results announced and Annual Financial Further information about the The Merchants Trust Report posted to Shareholders in April.
PLC, including monthly fact sheets, daily share prices and performance, is available on the Annual General Meeting held in May.
com, which can also Interim Management Statements announced be reached via www.
Full year results announced and Half-Yearly How to invest Financial Report posted to Shareholders in Alliance Trust Savings Limited ATS is one of a September.
number of providers offering a range of products and services, including Share Plans, ISAs and Ordinary Dividends pension products.
ATS also maintains services It is anticipated that dividends will be paid as including online and telephone-based dealing follows: facilities and online valuations.
More information is available from Allianz Global Investors either 1st Quarterly August via Investor Services on 0800 389 4696 or 2nd Quarterly November on the Managers website: www.
com 3rd Quarterly February investmenttrusts, or from Alliance Trust Savings Final May Customer Services Department on 01382 573737 or by e-mail: contact@alliancetrust.
co. uk Preference Dividends A list of other providers can be found on the Payable half-yearly 30 June and 31 December.
RCM Investment Trusts website: www.
com investmenttrusts 66 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Investor Information continued Capita Registrars also offers shareholders an Capita Registrars Payment of Dividends Direct to Bank on-line service called The Share Portal, enabling Accounts offer shareholders a shareholders to access a comprehensive range Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to firstof shareholder related information.
Through The free online service named shareholders at their registered address Share Portal, shareholders can: view their current together with a tax voucher.
Dividends may be called The Share and historical shareholding details: obtain an paid directly into shareholders bank accounts.
indicative share price and valuation: register for Portal, enabling Details of how this may be arranged can be e-comms, amend address details: view details of obtained from the Registrars, Capita Registrars.
shareholders to access dividend payments: and apply for dividends to be Dividends mandated in this way are paid via paid directly to a bank or to change existing bank a comprehensive BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Service.
vouchers will then be sent directly to shareholders range of shareholder Shareholders can access these services at www.
at their registered address unless other instructions capitashareportal.
com and selecting Share Portal have been given.
Shareholders from the drop down menu, or alternatively via the Portals: Quick Links, and Dividend Reinvestment Plan for selecting Share Portal.
Shareholders will need to Ordinary Shareholders register for a Share Portal Account by completing A Dividend Reinvestment Plan is operated by the an on-screen registration form.
An email address Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars.
offers Ordinary Shareholders the opportunity to use their cash dividend to buy further shares in the Registrars and Shareholders Enquiries Company under a low-cost dealing arrangement.
Capita Registrars The Registry, 34 Beckenham Capita enclose a copy of the Terms and Conditions Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU are the and a personalised application form with each Companys registrars and maintain the share dividend payment.
In the event of queries regarding their holdings of shares, lost certificates, dividend Share Dealing Services and Share Portal cheques, registered details, etc.
shareholders Capita Registrars, the Companys Registrars, should contact the registrars on 0871 664 0300 operate both on-line and telephone dealing or 44 20 8639 3399 if calling from overseas.
facilities for UK resident shareholders with share Lines are open 8.30 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. London certificates.
Calls to the 0871 664 For further information on these services please 0300 number are charged at 10 pence per contact: www.
com for on-line dealing minute plus any of your service providers network or 0871 664 0454 for telephone dealing.
Calls to the helpline number from outside are open 8.00 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. Monday to Friday.
the UK are charged at applicable international Calls to the 0871 664 0454 number are charged rates.
Different charges may apply to calls made at 10 pence per minute plus any of your service from mobile telephones and calls may be providers network extras.
Different charges may recorded and monitored randomly for security and apply to calls made from mobile telephones and training purposes.
Capita Registrars can also be calls may be recorded and monitored randomly for contacted by email: ssd.
or by security and training purposes.
67 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Investor Information continued Changes of name and address must be notified to General enquiries CREST Proxy Voting the registrars in writing.
Shares held in uncertificated form i. e. in CREST about the Company Any general enquiries about the Company should may be voted through the CREST Proxy Voting should be directed be directed to the Company Secretary, The Service in accordance with the procedures set out Merchants Trust PLC, 155 Bishopsgate, London, in the CREST manual.
com Association of Investment Companies AIC Merchants Trust International Payment Services The Company is a member of the AIC, the trade PLC, 155 Bishopsgate, body of the investment trust industry, which Capita Registrars, the Companys registrars, operate provides a range of literature including fact sheets an international payment service for shareholders, London, EC2M 3AD.
Copies of these whereby they can elect either for their dividend publications can be obtained from the AIC, 9th to be paid by foreign currency draft or they can Floor, 24 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4YY, or at request an international bank mandate.
service is only available for dividend payments of 10 or more.
AIC Category: UK Growth and Income.
The International Payment Service will generally Warning to Shareholders cost less than the fees charged by your local bank to convert your sterling dividend into your local We are aware that some shareholders may currency.
A 5 administration fee per dividend have received unsolicited telephone calls payment applies.
Your dividends are paid as or correspondence concerning investment cleared funds directly into your bank or sent to you matters.
These are typically from overseas based as a draft.
organisations who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or Capita Registrars, working in partnership with high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can Travelex, will arrange for your dividend to be be extremely persistent and extremely persuasive.
exchanged into your local currency at competitive Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary rates based on actual market rates.
of any unsolicited advice or offers to buy shares at To use this service you will need to register online a discount.
com international or by Please note that it is most unlikely that either contacting Capita Registrars as detailed below.
the Company or the Companys Registrar, Capita For further information on these services please Registrars, would make unsolicited telephone calls contact: 44 20 8639 3405 from outside of the to shareholders.
Any such calls would only ever UK or 0871 664 0385 in the UK Calls cost relate to official documentation already circulated 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are to shareholders and never in respect of investment open between 9.00am and 5.30pm, Monday to advice.
Friday or email IPS@capitaregistrars.
If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited telephone call, please call either the Company Secretary or the Registrar on the numbers provided above.
