ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Statement of Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 January 1 The financial statements have been principal risks and uncertainties it faces, generally recognised within the Income prepared under the historical cost together with the factors likely to affect Statement as revenue.
Where, however, basis, except for the measurement at its future development, performance the Company is required to take up a fair value of investments and derivative and position are set out in the Directors proportion of the shares underwritten, financial instruments, and in accordance Report, Business Review section on the same proportion of the commission pages 23 to 34. with the United Kingdom Law and received is recognised as capital, with the United Kingdom Generally Accepted balance recognised as revenue.
FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Accounting Practice UK GAAP and the Disclosures introduces additional 3 Investment management fees Statement of Recommended Practice - disclosures relating to financial and administration expenses Financial Statements of Investment Trust instruments.
This standard does not have The investment management fee is Companies and Venture Capital Trusts any impact on the classification and calculated on the basis set out in Note SORP issued in January 2009 by the or valuation of the Companys financial 2 to the financial statements and is Association of Investment Companies instruments.
The additional disclosures charged to capital and revenue in AIC.
provided in accordance with the the ratio 65:35 to reflect the Boards requirements of the standard are set out In order to better reflect the activities investment policy and prospective split in Note 18 of the financial statements.
of an investment trust company and of capital and income returns.
The split is Comparatives are not required.
in accordance with guidance issued reviewed annually.
Other administration by the AIC, supplementary information expenses are charged in full to revenue, 2 Revenue Franked, unfranked and which analyses the Income Statement except custodian handling charges overseas dividends received on equity between items of a revenue and capital on investment transactions which are shares are accounted for on an exnature has been presented alongside the charged to capital.
All expenses are dividend basis.
UK dividends are shown Income Statement.
In accordance with recognised on an accrual basis.
the Companys status as a UK investment trust company under Sections 833 and Special dividends are recognised on an 4 Valuation - As the Companys business 834 of the Companies Act 2006, net ex-dividend basis and treated as a capital is investing in financial assets with a view capital returns may not be distributed by or revenue item depending on the facts to profiting from their total return in the way of a dividend.
and circumstances of each dividend.
The form of increases in fair value, financial Board review special dividends and their assets are designated as held at fair The accounting policies adopted in treatment at each meeting.
value through profit or loss in accordance preparing the current years financial with FRS 26 Financial Instruments: statements are consistent with those of Where the Company has elected to Recognition and Measurement.
receive its dividends in the form of Company manages and evaluates the additional shares rather than in cash, The Directors believe that it is appropriate performance of these investments on the equivalent of the cash dividend is to continue to adopt the going a fair value basis in accordance with its recognised as income.
Any excess in concern basis in preparing the financial investment strategy, and information the value of the shares received over statements as the assets of the Company about the investments is provided on this the amount of the cash dividend is consist mainly of securities which are basis to the Board of Directors.
readily realisable and significantly exceed liabilities.
Accordingly, the Directors Deposit interest receivable and Investments held at fair value through believe that the Company has adequate stocklending fees are accounted for on profit or loss are initially recognised at financial resources to continue in an accruals basis.
Commissions in respect fair value.
After initial recognition, these operational existence for the foreseeable of underwriting are recognised when continue to be measured at fair value, future.
The Companys business, the the underwritten issue closes and are which for quoted investments is either 46 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Statement of Accounting Policies continued for the year ended 31 January the bid price or the last traded price accrued finance costs to date.
Finance 8 Foreign currency In accordance depending on the convention of the costs are calculated over the term of the with FRS 23 The Effect of changes in exchange on which the investment is debt on the effective interest rate basis.
Foreign Currency Exchanges Rates, the listed.
Gains or losses on investments are Company is required to nominate a Where debt is issued at a premium, the recognised in the capital column of the functional currency, being the currency premium is amortised over the term of Income Statement.
Purchases and sales in which the Company predominately the debt on the effective interest rate of financial assets are recognised on the operates.
The functional and reporting basis.
trade date, being the date which the currency is sterling, reflecting the primary Finance costs net of amortised premiums Company commits to purchase or sell economic environment in which the are charged to capital and revenue in the assets.
Transactions in the ratio 65:35 to reflect the Boards foreign currencies are translated into 5 Derivatives Options may be investment policy and prospective split of sterling at the rates of exchange ruling purchased or written over securities capital and revenue returns.
on the date of the transaction.
Foreign held in the portfolio for generating currency monetary assets and liabilities Dividends payable on the 3.65% or protecting capital returns, or for are translated into sterling at the rates Cumulative Preference Stock are generating or maintaining revenue of exchange ruling at the balance sheet classified as an interest expense and are returns.
Where the purpose of the date.
Profits and losses thereon are charged in full to revenue.
option is the maintenance of capital the recognised in the capital column of the premium is treated as a capital item.
7 Taxation Where expenses are Income Statement and taken to the The value of the option is subsequently allocated between capital and revenue, Capital Reserve.
marked to market to reflect the fair any tax relief obtained in respect of those value of the option based on traded 9 Dividends In accordance with FRS 21 expenses is allocated between capital prices.
When an option is closed out or Events After the Balance Sheet Date, and revenue on the marginal basis exercised the gain or loss is accounted the final dividend proposed on Ordinary using the Companys effective rate of for as capital.
Shares is recognised as a liability when Corporation tax for the accounting period.
Interim Where the purpose of the option is the Deferred taxation is recognised in dividends are recognised only when paid.
generation of income, the premium is respect of all timing differences that treated as a revenue item.
The value have originated but not reversed at the 10 Shares repurchased and of the option is subsequently marked balance sheet date, where transactions or subsequently cancelled Share to market to reflect the fair value of the events that result in an obligation to pay Capital is reduced by the nominal option based on traded prices.
Premiums more tax or a right to pay less tax in the value of the shares repurchased, and received on written options are amortised future have occurred.
Timing differences the Capital Redemption Reserve is to revenue over the period to expiry.
are differences between the Companys correspondingly increased in accordance Unamortised premiums on exercise date taxable profits and its results as stated in with Section 733 Companies Act 2006. are taken to capital.
The full cost of the repurchase is charged to the Capital Reserve within Gains A deferred tax asset is recognised when it 6 Finance costs In accordance with Losses on Sales of Investments.
is more likely than not that the asset will the FRS 25 Financial Instruments: be recoverable.
Deferred tax is measured Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 11.
Shares issued Share Capital is on a non-discounted basis at the rate of Financial Instruments: Recognition and increased by the nominal value of shares Corporation tax that is expected to apply Measurement, long term borrowings are issued.
The proceeds net of expenses are when the timing differences are expected stated at the amortised cost being the allocated to the Share Premium Account.
amount of net proceeds on issue plus 47
