ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Statement of Directors Responsibilities he Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors confirm that they have Statement under DTR 4.1.
12 T the Annual Financial Report, the Directors complied with the above requirements in The Directors at the date of approval of this Remuneration Report and the financial preparing the financial statements.
Report, each confirm to the best of their statements in accordance with applicable law knowledge that: The Directors are responsible for keeping and regulations.
adequate accounting records that are the financial statements, which have Company law requires the directors to sufficient to show and explain the companys been prepared in accordance with United prepare financial statements for each financial transactions and disclose with reasonable Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting year.
Under that law the Directors have accuracy at any time the financial position Practice United Kingdom Accounting elected to prepare the financial statements of the company and enable them to ensure Standards and applicable law, give a in accordance with United Kingdom that the financial statements and the true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Directors Remuneration Report comply with financial position and net return of the United Kingdom Accounting Standards and the Companies Act 2006.
They are also company: and applicable law.
Company law also requires responsible for safeguarding the assets of the the Annual Financial Report includes that the directors must not approve the company and hence for taking reasonable a fair review of the development and financial statements unless they are satisfied steps for the prevention and detection of performance of the Company and the that they give a true and fair view of the fraud and other irregularities.
position of the Company, together with state of affairs of the company and of the The financial statements are published on a description of the principal risks and net return of the company for that period.
co. uk, which is a website uncertainties that it faces.
In preparing these financial statements, the maintained by the Companys investment directors are required to: manager, RCM UK Limited.
The Directors select suitable accounting policies and then are responsible for the maintenance and apply them consistently: integrity of the companys website.
The For and on behalf of the Board work undertaken by the Auditor does not Simon Fraser make judgements and accounting involve consideration of the maintenance Chairman estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and integrity of the website and, accordingly, 29 March 2012 state whether applicable UK Accounting the Auditor accepts no responsibility for any Standards have been followed, subject changes that have occurred to the financial to any material departures disclosed and statements since they were initially presented explained in the financial statements.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United prepare the financial statements on Kingdom governing the preparation and the going concern basis unless it is dissemination of financial statements may inappropriate to presume that the differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
company will continue in business.
