ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual the Company to allot relevant securities before the expiry of that power which General Meeting of The Merchants Trust PLC within the meaning of the said would or might require equity securities will be held at Holborn Bars, 138-142 Holborn, Section up to a maximum number of to be allotted after such expiry and the London EC1N 2NQ on Wednesday 9 May 34,401,047 Ordinary Shares provided Directors may allot equity securities in 2012 at 12 noon to transact the following that: pursuance of such offer or agreement as business.
if that power had not expired.
i the authority granted shall expire one year from the date upon which this 12 That the Company be and is hereby Routine Business Resolution is passed but may be revoked generally and unconditionally authorised 1 To receive and adopt the Report of the or varied by the Company in general in accordance with Section 701 of the Directors and the Financial Statements meeting and may be renewed by the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make for the year ended 31 January 2012 Company in general meeting for a further market purchases within the meaning of together with the Auditors Report period not exceeding one year: and Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary thereon.
Shares of 25p each in the capital of the ii the authority shall allow and enable the Company Ordinary Shares, provided 2 To declare a final dividend of 5.8p per Directors to make an offer or agreement that: Ordinary Share.
before the expiry of that authority which would or might require relevant securities i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares 3 To re-elect Simon Fraser as a Director.
to be allotted after such expiry and the hereby authorised to be purchased shall 4 To re-elect Mike McKeon as a Director.
Directors may allot relevant securities be 15,471,698: 5 To re-elect Henry Staunton as a Director.
in pursuance of any such offer or ii the minimum price which may be paid agreement as if that authority had not 6 To re-elect Paul Yates as a Director.
for an Ordinary Share is 25p: expired.
7 To approve the Directors Remuneration iii the maximum price which may be paid 11 That the Directors be empowered in Report.
for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal accordance with Section 570 of the to 105% of the average of the middle- 8 To re-appoint  Companies Act 2006 to allot equity market quotations for an Ordinary Share LLP as Auditors of the Company, to securities within the meaning of Section taken from the London Stock Exchange hold office until the conclusion of the 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the Official List for the five business days next general meeting at which financial authority conferred by Resolution 10 as immediately preceding the day on which statements are laid before the Company.
if sub-section 1 of Section 561 of the the Ordinary Share is purchased or such Act did not apply to any such allotment 9 To authorise the Directors to determine other amount as may be specified by provided that: the remuneration of the Auditors.
the London Stock Exchange from time to i the power granted shall be limited to time: Special Business the allotment of equity securities wholly iv the authority hereby conferred shall To consider and if thought fit to pass the for cash up to a maximum number of expire at the conclusion of the Annual following resolutions.
Resolution 10 will 10,321,346 Ordinary Shares: General Meeting of the Company in be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution ii the power granted shall unless 2013 or, if earlier, on the expiry of and Resolutions 11 and 12 as Special previously revoked or renewed expire 18 months from the passing of this Resolutions: at the conclusion of the next Annual resolution, unless such authority is 10 That for the purposes of Section 551 of General Meeting of the Company after renewed prior to such time: and the Companies Act 2006 the Directors the passing of this resolution: and v the Company may make a contract to be generally and unconditionally iii the said power shall allow and enable the purchase Ordinary Shares under the authorised to exercise all the powers of Directors to make an offer or agreement authority hereby conferred prior to the 70 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Notice of Meeting continued expiry of such authority which will or 5.
Duly completed forms of proxy must Companies Act 2006 nominated may be executed wholly or partly after reach the office of the Registrars at least persons.
Nominated persons may have the expiration of such authority and may 48 hours excluding non-business days a right under an agreement with the make a purchase of Ordinary Shares before the Meeting.
registered shareholder who holds the pursuant to any such contract.
shares on their behalf to be appointed 6.
Shares held in uncertificated form i. e. in or to have someone else appointed CREST may be voted through the CREST as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated Proxy Voting Service in accordance with 155 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 3AD persons do not have such a right, or do the procedures set out in the CREST 29 March 2012 not wish to exercise it, they may have a manual on the Euroclear website www.
right under such an agreement to give By Order of the Board euroclear.
instructions to the person holding the Kirsten Salt 7.
To be entitled to attend and vote at shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
Secretary the Meeting and for the purpose of Nominated persons should contact determination by the Company of the registered member by whom they the number of votes they may cast, were nominated in respect of these Notes: Members must be entered on the arrangements.
Members entitled to attend and vote at Companys Register of Members by close 10.
Corporate representatives are entitled this Meeting may appoint one or more of business on Friday 4 May 2012 the to attend and vote on behalf of the proxies to attend, speak and vote in their record date.
corporate member in accordance with stead by completion of a personalised 8.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not Section 323 of the Companies Act form of proxy.
Full details on how to more than 48 hours after the record date 2006.
Pursuant to the Companies complete the form of proxy are set out applicable to the original Meeting, that Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 on the form of proxy.
The proxy need not time will also apply for the purpose of SI 2009 1632, multiple corporate be a Member of the Company.
determining the entitlement of Members representatives appointed by the same 2.
A proxy must vote in accordance with to attend and vote and for the purpose corporate member can vote in different any instructions given by the member by of determining the number of votes they ways provided they are voting in respect whom the proxy is appointed.
A proxy may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
has one vote on a show of hands in all however, the Meeting is adjourned for 11.
Members have a right under Section cases including where one member a longer period then, to be so entitled, 319A of the Companies Act 2006 to has appointed multiple proxies, except Members must be entered on the require the Company to answer any where he is appointed by multiple Companys Register of Members at the question raised by a member at the members who instruct him to vote in time which is 48 hours before the time AGM, which relates to the business different ways, in which case he only has fixed for the adjourned Meeting or, if being dealt with at the meeting, although one vote for and one vote against the the Company gives new notice of the no answer need be given a if to do resolution.
adjourned Meeting, at the record date so would interfere unduly with the specified in that notice.
A personalised form of proxy is provided preparation of the meeting or involve with the Annual Financial Report.
The right to appoint a proxy does not disclosure of confidential information: replacement forms must be requested apply to persons whose shares are held b if the answer has already been direct from the Registrar.
on their behalf by another person and given on the Companys website: or c who have been nominated to receive it is undesirable in the best interests of 4.
Completion of the form of proxy does communications from the Company the Company or the good order of the not exclude a Member from attending in accordance with Section 146 of the meeting.
the Meeting and voting in person.
71 Hatton Garden Chancery Lane Holborn ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Notice of Meeting continued 12.
Members satisfying the thresholds in 13.
Further information regarding the Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 practicable date before this Notice is meeting which the Company is required can require the Company, at its expense, given, the total number of Ordinary by Section 311A of the Companies Act to publish a statement on the Company Shares and Preference Stock in the 2006 to publish on a website in advance website setting out any matter which Company in respect of which members of the meeting including this Notice, relates to the audit of the Companys are entitled to exercise voting rights was can be accessed at www.
com accounts that are to be laid before the 103,213,464 Ordinary Shares of 25p investmenttrusts.
Any such statement must also each and 1,178,000 3.65% Cumulative 15.
Contracts of service are not entered be sent to the Companys auditors no Preference Stock of 1 each.
Each carries into with the Directors, who hold office later than the time it is made available on the right to one vote and therefore, in accordance with the Articles of the website and must be included in the the total number of voting rights in the Association.
Annual General Meeting venue Holborn Bars Chancery Lane Holborn 72 High Holborn Clerkenwell Rd Theobalds Rd RCM UK Limited, 155 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AD T: 44 0 20 7859 9000 F: 44 0 20 7859 3507 www.
com RCM UK Limited is a company of Allianz Global Investors
