Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 1 General information Cable & Wireless Communications Plc the Company or the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together Cable & Wireless Communications Group or the Group is an international telecommunications company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It operates through four business units being the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2012.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars US$ and rounded to the nearest million.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments held at fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis see page 40 of the Directors report for further detail.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is significant are discussed in note 3.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the Groups share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures and associates.
The accounts of the Groups main trading subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates have been prepared to align with the Groups reporting date.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by and forming part of the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benets from its activities.
In assessing control, the existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are considered.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures and associates are entities over which the Group exercises joint control.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised through profit or loss.
Its share of postacquisition movements in reserves is recognised in equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture and or associate exceeds its investment including any other unsecured long-term receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
Group reorganisation and demerger in the year ended 31 March 2010 During 2009 10, the Cable & Wireless Group effected a Group reorganisation whereby Cable & Wireless Communications Plc was inserted as the new holding company, replacing Cable and Wireless plc now Cable & Wireless Ltd.
The Group was renamed the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
Subsequently the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business was demerged from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group demerger.
Cable & Wireless Communications 67 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The Group considered the implications of the following amendments to IFRS during the year ended 31 March 2012: R evised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Improvements to IFRS 2010 IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments The above were first effective for the Group in the year beginning 1 April 2011 and have been adopted by the Group for 2011 12.
They did not have a material impact on the Group.
New and amended standards and interpretations not yet endorsed by the EU, not yet effective and not adopted by the Group: Title Effective date not EU endorsed Description and impact on the Group Amendment to IAS 19 Annual periods beginning on or after There will be an impact on the Group results due to the Employee benets 1 January 2013 change in calculating finance costs.
Interest cost and expected return on plan assets will be replaced with a net interest amount calculated by applying the discount rate to the net dened benefit liability.
IFRS 9 Financial Annual periods beginning on or after IFRS 9 replaces parts of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: instruments 1 January 2015 Recognition and Measurement that relate to the classication and measurement of financial instruments.
There will be an impact on the Group results due to revised classication categories.
The Group is currently considering the effect of the revised standard.
In addition, a number of new standards have been released but are not yet endorsed by the EU.
The Group is currently considering the effect of these revised standards but they are not expected to have a material impact.
2.3 Foreign currencies a Functional currency Amounts included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
b Foreign currency translation Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised through profit or loss.
c Foreign operations The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the Groups presentation currency of US dollars are translated as follows: i Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date ii Income and expenses are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions iii Resulting exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to shareholders equity.
Where investments are matched in whole or in part by foreign currency loans, the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of such loans are also recorded as movements in the Groups translation reserves and any excess taken to profit or loss.
There are no Group entities operating in a hyperinationary economy.
68 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of these accounts are as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 : US$ Average 0.6260 0.6473 Year end 0.6263 0.6246 : US$ Average 0.7225 0.7601 Year end 0.7506 0.7089 Maldivian ruyaa : US$ Average 15.29 12.80 Year end 15.36 12.80 2.4 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing assets, typically cell sites and network equipment, and restoring land on which they are located are included in the cost of property, plant and equipment.
The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the future economic benets will ow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
All other subsequent costs primarily repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss as incurred.
Depreciation is not recognised on freehold land or assets under construction.
Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost of property, plant and equipment, on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Lives Cables up to 20 years Network equipment 3 to 25 years Ducting 40 years Freehold buildings 40 years Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less Asset useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date.
An assets carrying amount is written down to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount through sale or use.
2.5 Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the future economic benets that arise from acquired assets that are not capable of being individually identied and separately recognised.
The goodwill recorded in the Groups statement of financial position is calculated using two different methods, depending on the acquisition date, as a result of changes in accounting standards.
All business combinations that occurred since 31 March 2010 are accounted for using the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets acquired.
All transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
All other business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2004.
Costs attributable to these combinations are included in the cost of acquisition.
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Cable & Wireless Communications 69 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 2.5 Intangible assets continued b Other intangible assets Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identiable and unique software products by the Group are recognised as intangible assets.
Expenditures that enhance and extend the benets of computer software programs beyond their original specications and lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Intangible assets relating to customer contracts, customer relationships and licences obtained as part of the Groups business combinations are recorded initially at their fair values.
Other intangible assets that do not have indefinite useful lives are amortised on a straight line basis over their respective lives which are usually based on contractual terms.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation.
Lives Software 3 to 5 years Licences 25 years or less if the licence term is shorter Customer contracts and relationships 4 to 10 years 2.6 Financial instruments Financial assets The Group classies its financial assets into the following categories: cash and cash equivalents: trade and other receivables: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: available-for-sale financial assets: and held-to-maturity investments.
The classication depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
The Group does not currently classify any assets as held-to-maturity investments.
Management determines the classication of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through profit or loss.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank, short-term deposits, money market funds and Government securities.
They are highly liquid monetary investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignicant risk of changes in value.
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position is considered to approximate fair value.
Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings and classied in current liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable.
Trade and other receivables are presented in current assets in the statement of financial position, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the reporting date.
Receivables are recognised initially at the value of the invoice sent to the customer and subsequently at the amounts considered recoverable amortised cost.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets that are either held for trading or those designated upon initial recognition.
A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management.
Included in this category are shares held by the Group in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc which were retained on demerger together with derivative financial instruments.
These financial assets are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised through profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments that are not designated as hedge instruments are recognised immediately through profit or loss.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category upon initial recognition or not classied in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within one year of the reporting date and such assets recognised in this category by the Group include UK and Bahamian Government gilts and cash held as collateral.
Purchases and disposals of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value, other than impairment losses and foreign currency differences, are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the fair value reserve within Capital and other reserves in equity.
When an asset is derecognised the gain or loss accumulated in equity is reclassied through profit or loss.
70 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements Financial liabilities The Group classies its financial liabilities into the following categories: trade and other payables: borrowings: and financial liabilities at fair value.
Management determines the classication of its financial liabilities at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial liabilities other than those held at fair value.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds received net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised through profit or loss over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
The financial liabilities recognised in this category include secured and unsecured bonds and facilities and other loans held by the Group and are presented in borrowings in current liabilities in the statement of financial position unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year after the reporting date.
Financial liabilities at fair value This category includes puttable instruments on non-controlling interests relating to the acquisition of Monaco Telecom, derivative financial instruments and the Groups obligation to transfer Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares.
These financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised through profit or loss except for changes in the fair value of the Monaco Telecom put option.
The fair value of the Monaco Telecom put option is based on the present value of the redemption amount, calculated using discounted cash ow techniques, as if the puttable instrument had been exercised at the reporting date.
Movements in the fair value of the liability, together with dividends paid to non-controlling interests, are recognised as adjustments to goodwill in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2004, with the unwind of the discount on the fair value calculation being recognised through profit or loss in finance expenses.
2.7 Impairment of assets Financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss or a group of those financial assets is impaired.
An impairment allowance is established for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Non-financial assets Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
All other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identiable cash ows cashgenerating units.
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Groups assets or the cash-generating unit to which it belongs to their recoverable amounts, which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Fair value represents market value in an active market.
Value in use is determined by discounting future cash ows arising from the asset.
Future cash ows are determined with reference to the Groups own projections using pre-tax discount rates.
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgemental and susceptible to change.
2.8 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is the price paid less any rebates, trade discounts or subsidies.
It also includes delivery charges and import duties, but does not include value added taxes or advertising and administration costs.
Cost is based on the first-in, first-out FIFO principle.
For inventories held for resale, net realisable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less costs to sell.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving inventories as required.
2.9 Share capital Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares, stand-alone options or the repurchase of shares are recognised in equity.
2.10 Leases All Group leases are operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are charged through profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Cable & Wireless Communications 71 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 2.11 Employee benets Dened contribution pensions A dened contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays xed contributions to a third party.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as operating costs as they are incurred through profit or loss.
Dened benefit obligations A dened benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
These schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of each dened benefit pension plan represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the dened benefit obligations at the reporting date.
Assets are only recognised to the extent that the present value of the economic benets available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan exceed the fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the dened benefit obligations.
Dened benefit obligations for each scheme are calculated annually by independent actuaries.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, in the period in which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately through profit or loss unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employee remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In these cases, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities less the expected return on plan assets, are included within operating costs through profit or loss.
Share-based compensation The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of options over shares in the Company is recognised as an operating cost through profit or loss over the vesting period.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example service, profitability and cash ow targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
Termination benets Termination benets are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The Group recognises termination benets within other provisions when it is demonstrably committed to the action leading to the employees termination.
Bonus plans The Group recognises a liability in the statement of financial position in relation to bonuses payable to employees where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The plan rewarded Executive Directors and certain senior employees of the Group.
The plan is accounted for as an other long-term employee benefit in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benets.
The amount recognised as a liability represents the estimated present value of the obligation at the reporting date.
The last year of the scheme was 2010 11.
The LTIP created a reward pool over a five year period from 1 April 2006 depending on the extent to which the business has grown in value from its base valuation at the start of the period.
72 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements 2.12 Tax Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised through profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from: The initial recognition of goodwill or The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
2.13 Provisions Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are presented in the statement of financial position at the present value of the estimated future outows expected to be required to settle the obligation.
Provision charges and reversals are recognised through profit or loss.
Discount unwinding is recognised as a finance expense.
2.14 Revenue recognition Group revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services and goods provided to customers.
It includes sales to joint ventures and associates but does not include sales by joint ventures and associates or sales between Group companies.
Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided.
In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as the services are provided.
Charges are negotiated separately and are subject to continual review.
Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any amounts payable to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Revenue from mobile, broadband, TV and xed line products comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime and usage, messaging and other telecommunications services.
This includes data services and information provision and revenue from the sale of equipment, including handsets.
Monthly access charges from mobile, broadband, TV and xed line products are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle.
Airtime, either from contract customers as part of the invoiced amount or from prepaid customers through the sale of prepaid cards, is recorded in the period in which the customer uses the service.
Unbilled revenue resulting from services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle date to the end of each period is accrued.
Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred.
Cable & Wireless Communications 73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 2.14 Revenue recognition continued The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content and traffic on its network originated by third party providers.
Third party dealers and partners are also used to facilitate the sale and provision of some services and equipment sold by the Group.
We assess whether revenue should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following factors: Whether the Group holds itself out as an agent Whether the Group has latitude for establishing the price, either directly or indirectly, for example by providing additional services Provision of customer remedies Whether the Group has the primary responsibility for providing the services to the customer or for fullling the order and Assumption of credit risk Revenue from sales of telecommunications equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue generating activities generally the sale of telecoms equipment and ongoing service is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently, based on the estimated fair value of the components.
The fair value of each component is determined by amounts charged when sold separately and by reference to sales of equivalent products and services by third parties.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised over the periods in which the service is provided.
Customer acquisition costs including dealer commissions and similar payments are expensed as incurred.
2.15 Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items within profit or loss that derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identied as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
2.16 Transactions with holders of non-controlling interests Transactions to acquire or dispose of ownership interests in the Groups subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
In these cases, the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reect the changes in the Groups relative interest in the subsidiary.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity attributable to the owners of the Parent Company.
3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements A number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the reporting of results of operations and the financial condition of the Group.
Results may differ signicantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Groups most critical accounting estimates.
These particular policies require subjective and complex assessments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are uncertain.
3.1 Valuation of assets for purchase accounting Where the Group undertakes business combinations, the cost of acquisition is allocated to identiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired and assumed by reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition.
The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill.
Any value assigned to the identiable assets is determined by reference to an active market, independent appraisal or estimate by management based on cash ow projections.
The latter situation includes estimates regarding expectations of the economic useful lives of the products and technology acquired.
3.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment The Group assigns useful lives and residual values to property, plant and equipment based on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the intended use for those assets.
Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives differing from initial estimates.
Where the Group determines that the useful life of property, plant and equipment should be shortened, it depreciates the net book value in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense.
Any change in an assets life is reected in the Groups financial statements when the change in estimate is determined.
74 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements 3.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets The Directors assess property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value is less than its recoverable amount.
Factors that are considered important and that could trigger an impairment review include the following: Obsolescence or physical damage significant changes in technology and regulatory environments significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results significant changes in the use of the assets or the strategy of the overall business significant negative industry or economic trends significant decline in the market capitalisation relative to net book value for a sustained period In addition, the Directors test goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life at least annually for impairment.
The identication of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash ows and the determination of the recoverable amount for assets or cash-generating units requires significant consideration.
Note 11 sets out the assumptions and estimates used during these assessments.
3.4 Receivables allowance The impairment allowance for trade receivables reects the Groups estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Groups customers to make required payments.
The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer creditworthiness and the Groups historical write-off experience.
Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of the Groups customers improves or deteriorates.
An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs.
Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have not been material to the Groups financial position and results.
3.5 Tax The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves a degree of estimation in respect of certain items where the tax treatment cannot be nally determined until a resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, if necessary, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash ow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrative and legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be substantial differences between the tax charge through profit or loss and tax payments made.
3.6 Provisions Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash outows by a rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the liability.
These provisions are estimates for which the amount and timing of actual cash ows are dependent on future events.
3.7 Pensions The Group provides several dened benefit pension schemes for its employees.
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of dened benefit pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the dened benefit obligations at the reporting date.
The expected cost of providing these dened benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as: The life expectancy of the members The length of service The rate of salary progression The rate of return earned on assets in the future The rate used to discount future pension liabilities Future ination rates The assumptions used by the Group are set out in note 26 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not necessarily be borne out in practice but are comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by FTSE 250 companies.
Changes to these assumptions could materially affect the dened benefit schemes liabilities and assets.
Cable & Wireless Communications 75 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 3.8 Fair value estimation The fair value of non-derivative financial instruments traded in active markets such as available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the reporting date.
The quoted market price used for traded financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
The appropriate quoted market price for traded financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the reporting date.
The fair value of non-derivative financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods which include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash ow analysis and option pricing models which reect the specic instrument.
The nominal value of receivables less estimated impairments and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash ows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Discounted cash ows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the reporting date.
3.9 Revenue recognition Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue recognition principles and the specic guidance in respect of Group revenue.
This includes the allocation of revenue between multiple deliverables, such as the sale value of telecommunications equipment and on-going service, where such items are sold as part of a bundled package.
4 Revenue Accounting policy detailed in note 2.14.
2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m Sales of telecommunications services and related operations 2,577 2,289 Sales of telecoms equipment and accessories 298 151 Total revenue 2,875 2,440 5 Segment information Cable & Wireless Communications Group is an international telecommunications service provider.
It operates integrated telecommunications companies offering mobile, broadband, TV, xed line and enterprise services to residential and business customers.
It has four principal operations which have been identied as the Groups reportable segments, being the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
The Group also has a London corporate centre London that does not meet the denition of an operating segment as it does not earn revenue from its activities.
This function primarily acts as a portfolio manager and operational support provider for the reportable segments.
The operating segment results for the two years ended 31 March 2012 are presented below.
The non-operating London corporate centre is also disclosed within other and eliminations in order to reconcile the reportable segment results to the Group results.
The Board the chief operating decision maker of the Group considers the performance of each of these operations in assessing the performance of the Group and making decisions about the allocation of resources.
Accordingly, these are the operating segments disclosed.
There are no other operating segments identied by the Board.
The operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board.
76 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements The Bahamas Telecommunications Company, following its acquisition in April 2011 note 30, is included within the Caribbean reportable segment.
Monaco Other and 1 Caribbean Panama Macau & Islands eliminations Total Year ended 31 March 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 1,172 601 524 586 8 2,875 Cost of sales 277 199 301 185 4 958 Gross margin 895 402 223 401 4 1,917 Pre-exceptional operating costs 611 146 58 215 14 1,016 2 EBITDA 284 256 165 186 10 901 Depreciation and amortisation 170 71 33 76 8 358 Net other operating expense 11 1 12 Exceptional operating costs 283 9 18 310 Group operating loss profit 180 176 132 91 2 221 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 81826 Total operating loss profit 180 176 132 99 20 247 Net other non-operating income 13 Net finance expense 156 profit before income tax 104 Income tax 78 profit for the year 26 1 Other and eliminations includes London expenses, eliminations for inter-segment transactions and the results of our joint ventures and associates with the exception of our joint venture in Afghanistan, which is managed and reported within Monaco & Islands.
2 EBITDA is used in management reporting as it is considered by management to be a key financial metric.
It is dened as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, net other operating and non-operating income expense and exceptional items note 36.
Monaco & Other and 1 Caribbean Panama Macau Islands eliminations Total Year ended 31 March 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 850 623 377 605 15 2,440 Cost of sales 236 202 171 180 7 782 Gross margin 614 421 206 425 8 1,658 Pre-exceptional operating costs 385 145 53 218 15 786 2 EBITDA 229 276 153 207 7 872 LTIP charge 24 24 Depreciation and amortisation 125 78 33 78 7 321 Net other operating expense income 3 1 26 28 Exceptional operating costs income 5 2 13 6 Group operating profit loss 96 198 120 128 37 505 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 3 28 31 Total operating profit loss 96 198 120 131 9 536 Net other non-operating income 34 Net finance expense 108 profit before income tax 462 Income tax 118 profit for the year 344 1 Other and eliminations includes London expenses, eliminations for inter-segment transactions and the results of our joint ventures with the exception of our joint venture in Afghanistan, which is managed and reported within Monaco & Islands.
2 EBITDA is used in management reporting as it is considered to be a key financial metric.
It is dened as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP charge, net other operating and non-operating income expense and exceptional items note 36.
Cable & Wireless Communications 77 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 5 Segment information continued There are no differences in the measurement of the reportable segments results and the Groups results.
There is no significant trading between the segments.
Transactions between the segments are on commercial terms similar to those offered to external customers.
There are no differences in the measurement of the reportable segments assets and liabilities and the Groups assets and liabilities.
Furthermore, there are no asymmetrical allocations to reportable segments.
Entity-wide disclosures The revenue from external customers are analysed by product below.
2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m Mobile 1,402 1,027 Broadband and TV 286 262 Fixed voice 609 600 Enterprise, data and other 578 551 Total 2,875 2,440 Revenue from external customers can be classied by country as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m United Kingdom country of domicile Bahamas 352 Jamaica 236 239 Panama 601 623 Macau 524 377 Monaco 268 236 All other countries and eliminations 894 965 Total 2,875 2,440 Revenue has been allocated to a country based on the location in which the telecommunications services were provided.
The Group does not have any customers from which revenue exceeds 10% of Group revenue.
Non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and dened benefit pension assets are classied by country as follows: At 31 March At 31 March 2012 2011 US$m US$m United Kingdom country of domicile 16 15 Bahamas 361 Jamaica 111 306 Panama 539 483 Macau 109 103 Monaco 382 374 1 All other countries and eliminations 1,104 1,200 Total 2,622 2,481 1 Other countries and eliminations includes non-operating assets and liabilities.
78 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements 6 Operating costs and other operating income and expenses 6a Operating costs An analysis of the operating costs incurred by the Group is presented below, classied by the nature of the cost: 2011 12 2010 11 PreExceptional PreExceptional exceptional items Total exceptional items Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Outpayments and direct costs 958 958 782 782 Employee and other staff expenses 437 66 503 365 5 370 Operating lease rentals: Networks 25 25 31 31 Property 33 33 14 14 Other administrative expenses 267 267 202 11 191 Network costs 159 159 116 116 Property and utility costs 95 95 82 82 Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 1,974 66 2,040 1,592 6 1,586 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 300 232 532 271 271 Amortisation of intangible assets 58 12 70 50 50 Operating costs 2,332 310 2,642 1,913 6 1,907 Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the release or establishment of accruals.
6b Exceptional items Accounting policy detailed in note 2.15.
Exceptional losses totalled US$310 million comprising restructuring costs, asset impairment and accelerated depreciation charges in the Caribbean and asset impairment charges relating to the Anis business within Monaco & Islands.
Exceptional items within operating costs before depreciation and amortisation are disclosed below while further information in respect of exceptional impairment charges can be found in note 11.
The exceptional accelerated depreciation charge of US$30 million was recorded in respect of a change in equipment vendor and the re-evaluation of the useful lives of legacy 2G mobile assets as part of the ongoing roll out of 4G HSPA networks in a number of Caribbean islands.
2011 12 2010 11 Note US$m US$m Exceptional items within operating costs before depreciation and amortisation: Staff costs i 66 5 Other income ii 11 Total exceptional operating costs income before depreciation and amortisation 66 6 i In 2011 12, exceptional staff costs include US$9 million in relation to a restructuring programme in Panama and US$57 million in the Caribbean which predominantly relates to the post acquisition restructuring plan in The Bahamas Telecommunications Company BTC.
In 2010 11, exceptional staff costs of US$5 million arose from restructuring of the Groups Caribbean operations.
ii In 2010 11, exceptional other costs included US$4 million professional fees as a result of the demerger, and US$2 million relating to the restructuring of our Anis business within Monaco & Islands.
In addition, US$17 million of exceptional income arose after successfully defending claims brought by a Caribbean competitor.
Cable & Wireless Communications 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 6c Employee and other staff expenses Accounting policy detailed in note 2.11.
The pre-exceptional employee and other staff expenses are set out below: 2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 424 333 Social security costs 12 7 Share-based payments 4 3 Long-Term Incentive Plan 24 Pension costs: dened benefit plans 8 dened contribution plans 12 7 Temporary labour and recruitment 33 18 485 400 Less: Staff costs capitalised 48 35 Staff costs 437 365 Exceptional employee and other staff expenses note 6b 66 5 Total staff costs 503 370 The average number of persons, including Executive Directors, employed by the Group during the year was: 2011 12 2010 11 London 146 153 Caribbean 3,948 2,855 Panama 1,598 1,737 Macau 882 844 Monaco & Islands 1,641 1,624 Total 8,215 7,213 Directors and key management remuneration Key management are represented by Directors only as those that have authority and responsibility for managerial decisions affecting the future development and business prospects of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
Included within employee costs is key management remuneration as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m Salaries and other short-term employment benets 6.5 4.8 Post-employment benets 0.5 0.5 Long-Term Incentive Plan 5.8 1 Total Directors remuneration 7.0 11.1 Share-based payments 1.0 1.7 Total key management remuneration 8.0 12.8 1 Please refer to the Directors remuneration report on pages 44 to 57 for further information on aggregate Directors emoluments of US$7.0 million 4.4 million 2010 11 US$11.1 million 7.1 million.
The Directors remuneration report is presented in sterling as salaries, benets and bonuses are paid in sterling.
80 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements 6d Other operating income and expense In 2011 12 and 2010 11, other operating income primarily included gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
In 2011 12, other operating expenses of US$15 million include US$7 million of stamp duty on The Bahamas acquisition, US$5 million of costs incurred following Hurricane Irene and US$3 million of losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
In 2010 11, other operating expenses of US$33 million related to US$17 million of foreign exchange translation movements on our UK dened benefit pension schemes, US$5 million of costs incurred following Hurricane Tomas in the Caribbean and US$11 million of transaction costs incurred relating to acquisition and other corporate finance activity.
6e Auditors remuneration 2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m Audit services: Statutory audit services in respect of the Groups accounts 2.4 2.2 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 2.4 2.2 Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates: Statutory audit services in respect of other statutory accounts 1.5 1.2 Audit related regulatory reporting 0.6 0.4 4.5 3.8 Tax services compliance 0.1 0.2 Tax services advisory 0.1 Services related to corporate finance activities 0.2 0.7 Other services including other assurance services 0.2 0.7 5.0 5.5 Fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc for audit and other services to the Company are included in the table above and are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
7 Finance income expense and other non-operating expenses 7a Gains on sale of businesses During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Telecom Vanuatu Limited, which was classied within the other reportable segment.
The disposal took place on 12 October 2011 for total consideration of US$5 million excluding transaction costs resulting in a gain on disposal of US$3 million.
The Group also disposed of its 49% interest in Fi International Telecoms Limited, which was classied within the other reportable segment.
The disposal took place on 15 March 2012 for total consideration of US$10 million excluding transaction costs resulting in a gain on disposal of US$3 million.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Group disposed of Cable & Wireless Bermuda Holdings and its subsidiaries, which were classied within the Monaco & Islands reportable segment.
The disposal took place on 10 March 2011 for total consideration of US$70 million excluding transaction costs resulting in a gain on disposal of US$36 million.
A further gain of US$7m was recognised in the year ended 31 March 2012 in relation to adjustments to the working capital consideration and additional contingent consideration relating to the sale.
None of the disposed businesses constitute a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations due to their size.
7b Losses on termination of operations In the year ended 31 March 2011, the loss of US$2 million was the result of the run off activities of the Groups former insurance operation, Pender Insurance Limited.
Cable & Wireless Communications 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 7 Finance income expense and other non-operating expenses continued 7c Finance income and expense Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6.
2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m Finance income Interest on cash and deposits 7 6 Investment income 1 1 Foreign exchange gains 3 Gains on derivative contracts 3 22 Total finance income 11 32 Finance expense Interest on bank loans 46 42 Interest on bonds 93 86 Unwinding of discounts on provisions 1 2 Unwinding of discount on Monaco put option liability 19 13 Unwinding of discount on Monaco 6% put option liability 1 Foreign exchange losses 7 Capitalised finance transaction costs written off 6 172 144 Less: Interest capitalised 5 4 Total finance expense 167 140 Tax relief of US$2 million is available on interest capitalised in the year ended 31 March 2012 2010 11 US$1 million.
Interest has been capitalised within property, plant and equipment at a rate of 4% 2010 11 6% on qualifying capital expenditure.
8 Income tax expense Accounting policy detailed in note 2.12.
2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m Current tax charge UK tax at 26% 2010 11 28% 6 6 Double tax relief 6 6 Overseas tax 110 117 Adjustments relating to prior years 24 8 Total current tax charge 86 109 Deferred tax credit charge Origination and reversal of temporary differences 6 30 Adjustments relating to prior years 2 21 Total deferred tax credit charge 8 9 Total income tax charge 78 118 82 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements The Groups effective tax rate differs from the UK statutory tax rate as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m profit before income tax 104 462 Income tax charge at UK statutory tax rate: 26% 2010 11 28% 27 129 Effect of overseas tax rates 34 42 Effect of accounting for joint ventures and associates 6 Effect of withholding tax and intra-Group dividends 27 27 Net effect of income not taxable 42 30 Effect of changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 126 69 Adjustments relating to prior years 26 29 Total income tax charge 78 118 Income tax credit on exceptional items 10 1 Pre-exceptional income tax charge 88 119 Pre-exceptional effective tax rate on profit 21.3% 26.1% Effective tax rate on profit 75.0% 25.5% For the analysis of the Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities at the reporting date, including factors affecting the future tax rates see note 24.
9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per ordinary share is based on the loss profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding.
2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m Loss profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent Company 77 197 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue millions 2,506 2,607 Dilutive effect of share options millions 22 Total weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue used to calculate diluted earnings per share millions 2,506 2,629 Basic loss earnings per share cents per share 3.1 7.6 Diluted loss earnings per share cents per share 3.1 7.5 Cable & Wireless Communications 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 10 Dividends declared and paid 2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m Final dividend in respect of the prior year 136 135 Interim dividend in respect of the current year 66 70 Total dividend paid 202 205 During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Group declared and paid a final dividend of US5.33 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2011 2010 11 3.34 pence per share US4.97 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010.
Beginning with the interim dividend in respect of 2010 11, the Group declares dividends in cents per share.
The Group declared and paid an interim dividend of US2.67 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2012 2010 11 US2.67 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2011.
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2012, the Directors have proposed a final dividend of US5.33 cents per share US$133 million 2010 11 US5.33 cents per share, for approval by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 20 July 2012.
These financial statements do not reect the proposed dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2013.
The Group previously offered a scrip dividend as an alternative to the cash dividend.
Under the scrip scheme in 2010 11, 13,443 shareholders owning 701 million shares elected to take the 2009 10 final dividend wholly or partly in shares.
Consequently, 41,039,703 total shares were issued with a value of US$37 million.
The scrip scheme is no longer offered and has been replaced with a dividend reinvestment plan DRIP.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust the Trust waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the Trust, with the exception of those shares held for Directors under the deferred annual bonus plan.
11 Impairment review Accounting policy detailed in note 2.7.
Goodwill A review of the carrying value of goodwill has been performed as at 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011.
In performing this review, the recoverable amount has been determined by reference to the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of the related businesses.
The key assumptions used by the Group in the calculation of value in use for its goodwill balances are the discount rate, revenue growth, operating cost margin and the level of capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level.
The Groups significant goodwill balances are discussed below.
Monaco Telecom Monaco & Islands reporting segment Goodwill of US$205 million was allocated in aggregate to the Monaco Telecom group of cash-generating units CGUs at 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 US$172 million.
Three relevant CGUs were identied for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of Monaco Telecom domestic including the cable television business, international business and other services.
The value in use was determined for each CGU by discounting future cash ows based on the approved five year business plan extrapolated at long-term growth rates of between 0% and 2.5% 2010 11 0% and 2% at pre-tax discount rates of between 9% and 24% 2010 11 9% and 22% dependent on the risk-adjusted cost of capital of the different parts of the business.
The value in use was higher than the fair value less costs to sell and no impairment was required in either period.
Monaco Telecom operates under an exclusive operating agreement in Monaco and managements forecasts were based on historical experience for the business.
The value in use of the three CGUs in aggregate would not support the carrying value of the goodwill if cash ows decreased by more than US$20 million per year or the discount rate increased by more than 7% above the pre-tax discount rates.
84 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements The Bahamas Telecommunications Company BTC Caribbean reporting segment Goodwill of US$63 million was allocated to BTC at 31 March 2012.
One relevant CGU has been identied for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the BTC business.
The value in use was determined by discounting future cash ows based on the approved five year business plan extrapolated at a long-term growth rate of nil at a pre-tax discount rate of 9.4%.
The value in use was higher than the fair value less costs to sell and no impairment was required.
The CGU value in use would not support the carrying value of the goodwill if cash ows decreased by more than US$48 million per year or the discount rate increased by more than 14% above the pre-tax discount rate.
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC Dhiraagu Monaco & Islands reporting segment Goodwill of US$21 million was allocated to Dhiraagu at 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 US$25 million.
One relevant CGU has been identied for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the Dhiraagu business.
The value in use was determined by discounting future cash ows based on the approved five year business plan extrapolated at a long-term growth rate of 2.5% 2010 11 2.5% at a pre-tax discount rate of 11.0% 2010 11 14.3%.
Anis Monaco & Islands reporting segment Anis has one relevant CGU that has been identied for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the business.
The recoverable amount was assessed based upon the value in use which was determined by discounting future cash ows based on the approved five year business plan at a pre-tax discount rate of 17.1% 2010 11 20%.
At 31 March 2012, the goodwill was fully impaired resulting in a charge of US$9 million.
This was due to a decrease in the value in use, triggered by a change in the strategic direction of the business.
Property, plant and equipment and other intangibles Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd Caribbean reporting segment As indicated in the previous years Annual report, there were a number of risks identied for our Jamaica business, including the need for change in the regulatory environment and the importance of business improvement strategies such as our Jamaica win back activity.
Progress in these areas has not been as anticipated.
In light of this, a review of the carrying value of the xed assets was conducted at year end.
One relevant CGU has been identied for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the business.
The recoverable amount was assessed based upon value in use which was determined by discounting future cash ows based on the approved five year business plan at a pre-tax discount rate of 11.0% 2010 11 11.1%.
The calculation is sensitive to changes in the discount rate, terminal growth rate and underlying trading.
Impairment charges of US$32 million, US$151 million and US$1 million have been applied to land and buildings, plant and equipment and intangible assets respectively.
Other Caribbean Caribbean reporting segment An impairment charge of US$12 million was recorded against the carrying value of plant and equipment in one other Caribbean business in light of the trading performance during the year.
The recoverable amount was assessed based upon the value in use determined by discounting future cash ows based on the approved five year business plan at a pre-tax discount rate of 11.4%.
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC Dhiraagu Monaco & Islands reporting segment Trade mark assets of US$18 million, with an indefinite useful life, were allocated to Dhiraagu at 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 US$18 million.
One relevant CGU has been identied for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the Dhiraagu business and the key assumptions used are disclosed above.
Anis Monaco & Islands reporting segment At 31 March 2012, in addition to the goodwill impairment disclosed above, other intangible assets of US$2 million and plant and equipment of US$7 million were impaired.
Other There were no other events or changes in circumstances during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets had been impaired.
Cable & Wireless Communications 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 12 Intangible assets Accounting policy detailed in note 2.5.
Licences and Customer operating contracts and Goodwill Software agreements relationships Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2010 196 151 145 51 91 634 Business combinations 11 11 Additions 36 6 42 Transfer between categories 1 29 28 Disposals 3 1 4 Exchange differences 1148 3 26 At 31 March 2011 218 187 181 51 72 709 Business combinations 107 31 1 139 Additions 49 1 3 53 Transfer between categories 1 1 Disposals 1 3 3 7 Exchange differences 17 4 8 8 6 35 At 31 March 2012 308 240 173 71 67 859 Amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2010 10 114 48 5 43 220 Charge for the year 23 11 7 9 50 Disposals 3 3 Transfer between categories 6 6 Exchange differences 233 2 39 At 31 March 2011 12 137 68 10 49 276 Charge for the year 32 11 6 9 58 Impairment 9 1 1 1 12 Disposals 1 3 3 7 Transfer between categories 2 2 Exchange differences 2 3 2 1 8 At 31 March 2012 19 171 75 11 55 331 Net book value At 31 March 2012 289 69 98 60 12 528 At 31 March 2011 206 50 113 41 23 433 86 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements Goodwill balances are allocated to the following cash-generating units: Dhivehi Raajjeyge Monaco Gulhun PLC 1 2 2 2 BTC Telecom Anis Dhiraagu Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2010 153 8 25 186 Business combinations note 30 11 11 Exchange differences 8 1 9 At 31 March 2011 172 9 25 206 Business combinations note 30 63 44 107 Exchange differences 11 4 15 Impairment 9 9 At 31 March 2012 63 205 21 289 1 Reporting segment: Caribbean 2 Reporting segment: Monaco & Islands 13 Property, plant and equipment Accounting policy detailed in note 2.4.
Refer to note 6b for further information.
The Group held no assets under finance leases at 31 March 2012 or 31 March 2011.
Additions during the year include interest and own work capitalised during the construction of certain assets of US$5 million 2010 11 US$4 million and US$48 million 2010 11 US$35 million respectively.
Cable & Wireless Communications 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates Accounting policy detailed in note 2.1.
2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m Gross carrying amount At 1 April Cost 78 78 Share of post-acquisition reserves 224 212 302 290 Share of profit after tax 26 31 Dividends paid to Group companies 4 9 Additions 5 Disposals 22 Loan from Group companies 4 1 Other movements 2 11 At 31 March 301 302 Impairment allowance At 1 April 59 59 Disposals 11 At 31 March 48 59 Net carrying amount at 31 March 253 243 The Groups total interest in its joint ventures and associates is presented below: 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 US$m US$m Non-current assets 309 343 Current assets 120 125 Current liabilities 79 120 Non-current liabilities 97 105 Share of net assets 253 243 2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m Revenue 370 381 Operating costs 338 351 Operating profit 32 30 Net nancing costs 3 Share of profit before tax 29 30 Income tax expense credit 3 1 Dividends paid to Group companies 4 9 Share of retained profit 22 22 88 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements On 12 October 2011, the Group sold its 50% interest in Telecom Vanuatu Limited and on 15 March 2012, the Group sold its 49% interest in Fi International Telecoms Limited.
See note 7a for more information.
There are no significant restrictions on joint ventures and associates ability to transfer funds to the Group.
The joint ventures and associates have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interests in joint ventures and associates.
The Groups joint ventures and associates have not discontinued any operations during the year ended 31 March 2012 2010 11 none.
15 Available-for-sale financial assets Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6.
2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m At 1 April 31 29 Business combinations 20 Fair value gain recorded in other comprehensive income 5 2 Released to cash and cash equivalents 2 Exchange differences 1 2 At 31 March 55 31 At 31 March 2012 available-for-sale financial assets consist of UK and Bahamian Government bonds 31 March 2011 UK Government bonds.
These assets were measured at fair value based on observable market data.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for available-for-sale financial assets is equal to their carrying value.
16 Trade and other receivables Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6.
31 March 31 March 2012 2011 US$m US$m Gross trade receivables 387 312 Impairment allowance 91 67 Net trade receivables 296 245 Other receivables 66 81 Prepayments and accrued income 236 263 Taxation and social security receivables 2 2 Amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates 2 1 Trade and other receivables current 602 592 Other receivables 34 41 Prepayments and accrued income 21 7 Other receivables non-current 55 48 Total trade and other receivables 657 640 The maximum exposure to credit risk for receivables is equal to their carrying value.
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other receivables presented.
Cable & Wireless Communications 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 16 Trade and other receivables continued Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Groups customer base is large and unrelated.
Receivables predominantly relate to retail customers, governments and corporate entities as well as other telecommunications operators.
Credit risk procedures vary depending on the size or type of customer.
These procedures include such activities as credit checks, payment history analysis and credit approval limits.
Based on these procedures, management assessed the credit quality of those receivables that are neither past due nor impaired as low risk.
There have been no significant changes to the composition of receivables counterparties within the Group that indicate this would change in the future.
During the periods presented there was a continued economic weakness in many of the markets in which the Group operated.
This would indicate an increased credit risk on receivables that are neither past due nor impaired.
However, management assessed this risk and, after providing valuation allowance where necessary, continued to support the assessment of credit quality as low risk.
An ageing analysis of the current trade receivables and current other receivables that are not impaired is as follows excludes prepayments and accrued income, taxation and social security and amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates : 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 US$m US$m Not yet due 145 165 Overdue 30 days or less 100 79 Overdue 31 to 60 days 40 30 Overdue 61 to 90 days 32 26 Overdue 91 days to 180 days 27 17 Overdue 181 days or more 18 9 Current trade receivables and current other receivables 362 326 Based on historic default rates, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade and other receivables not past due or past due by up to 30 days.
Due to the nature of the telecommunications industry, balances relating to interconnection with other carriers often have lengthy settlement periods.
Generally, interconnection agreements with major carriers result in both receivables and payables balances with the same counterparty.
Industry practice is that receivable and payable amounts relating to interconnection revenue and costs for a dened period are agreed between counterparties and settled on a net basis.
An analysis of movements in the trade receivables impairment allowance during the year is as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m At 1 April 67 62 Bad debts written off 32 20 Increase in allowance 39 24 Business combinations 20 Exchange differences 3 1 At 31 March 91 67 In a small number of the Groups operations it is customary and practice to collect security deposits from customers as collateral.
These are recorded as liabilities within other payables.
17 Inventories Accounting policy detailed in note 2.8.
Inventories represent equipment, cable capacity, consumables and accessories held-for-sale.
Inventories of US$103 million 31 March 2011 US$84 million are presented net of an allowance of US$14 million 31 March 2011 US$5 million made against slow moving or obsolete items.
The cost of equipment, cable capacity, consumables and accessories held-for-sale that were expensed within operating costs in 2011 12 was US$359 million 2010 11 US$214 million.
Inventories of the Group are not pledged as security or collateral against any of the Groups borrowings.
90 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements 18 Cash and cash equivalents Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6.
31 March 31 March 2012 2011 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 188 230 Short-term bank deposits 124 149 Cash and cash equivalents 312 379 Short-term bank deposits consist primarily of money market deposits, which can be readily converted to cash at short notice.
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits at 31 March 2012 was 1.39% 31 March 2011 0.91%.
At 31 March 2012, these deposits had an average maturity of nine days 31 March 2011 27 days.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value of those financial instruments.
19 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6.
2011 12 2010 11 Derivative Derivative CWW financial CWW financial shares instruments Total shares instruments Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 20 13 33 64 1 65 Delivery of shares to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc 30 30 Delivery of shares to employees 1 1 2 2 Shares sold 2 2 Fair value movement 7 7 15 15 Exchange differences 3 3 Movement in derivative financial assets 5 5 1212 At 31 March 10 8 18 20 13 33 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss current 10 8 18 20 7 27 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss non-current 66 On demerger, shares in the Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust the Trust were converted from 43 million Cable and Wireless plc shares to 43 million Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shares and 43 million Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares.
The Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares held by the Trust were reclassied at demerger as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss as they represent shares in an unrelated listed company.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, 22 million Cable & Wireless Worldwide shares with a market value of US$30 million were delivered to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc as part of the demerger agreement.
The remaining shares are held for use in satisfying employee share-based awards note 28.
The majority of shares no longer required due to the expiry of awards were sold in the year.
Derivative financial instruments At 31 March 2012, the Group had foreign exchange swap contracts to sell US$324 million 31 March 2011 US$260 million in hedging future sterling obligations regarding the coupon and redemption of the 2012 bond.
The Group did not apply hedge accounting to these contracts and as such they were revalued to fair value through profit or loss.
At 31 March 2012, the fair value of these contracts was an asset of US$8 million 31 March 2011 asset of US$13 million.
Cable & Wireless Communications 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 20 Trade and other payables 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 US$m US$m Trade payables 190 205 Other tax and social security costs 21 21 Accruals 428 384 Deferred income 88 67 Other payables 105 76 Trade and other payables current 832 753 Accruals 4 4 Deferred income 26 16 Other payables 1 Trade and other payables non-current 31 20 Total trade and other payables 863 773 There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other payables presented.
For liquidity risk exposure analysis purposes, the carrying amount of trade and other payables is the same as the contractual cash ows, with the contractual maturities of these financial liabilities all due in less than one year.
21 Borrowings Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6.
31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Interest Carrying Interest Carrying rate value Fair value rate value Fair value Type Security % US$m US$m % US$m US$m 1 2 2020 US$400 million secured bond Fixed Share pledges 8.750 390 425 over Group assets 2 2 2019 200 million bond Fixed Unsecured 8.625 234 234 8.625 235 245 2 2 2017 US$500 million secured bond Fixed Share pledges 7.750 492 523 7.750 490 527 over Group assets 2 2 2012 200 million bond Fixed Unsecured 8.750 317 325 8.750 317 337 3 3 US dollar and currencies linked to Fixed and Unsecured 3.898 269 269 5.420 283 285 the US dollar loans and facilities oating various dates to 2038 3 3 Overdrafts Floating Unsecured 5 5 2 2 3 2012 29 million loan Floating 2019 bonds 5.890 46 46 Total borrowings 1,707 1,373 Borrowings current 460 116 Borrowings non-current 1,247 1,257 1 As part of renancing activities during the year, the Group issued a new US$400 million secured bond in January 2012, to replace the 200 million bond that is due to mature in August 2012.
2 This value was determined by reference to market values obtained from third parties.
3 The carrying amount approximates to fair value.
On 19 October 2011, the Group entered into new five-year borrowing arrangements for US$600 million of revolving credit facilities with a maturity date of October 2016.
The facilities replace the Groups US$500 million revolving credit facility and the US$100 million term loan which were due to expire in March 2013.
These facilities were undrawn as at 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011.
92 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements The agreements for the facilities entered into during the year contain financial and other covenants which are standard to these types of arrangements.
For liquidity risk exposure analysis purposes, the following are the contractual maturities of loans including the expected interest payable at rates prevailing at the reporting date : 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 US$m US$m Borrowings Due in less than one year 593 220 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 140 497 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 872 304 Due in more than five years 787 874 2,392 1,895 Less: future finance charges on loans 685 522 Total borrowings 1,707 1,373 It is not expected that the cash ows included in the maturity analysis above could occur signicantly earlier or at signicantly different amounts.
Interest was payable on borrowings falling due after more than five years at rates of between 0.0% and 8.8% 2010 11 0.0% and 8.6% respectively.
Reconciliation of net funds Funds are dened as cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits.
Debt is dened as bonds, loans and overdrafts.
Analysis of changes in net funds: At At 1 April Business Bond Exchange 31 March 2011 combination Cash ow amortisation Transfers differences 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 230 56 89 9 188 Short-term deposits 149 17 8 124 Total funds 379 56 106 17 312 Debt due within one year 116 9 81 2 415 1 460 Debt due after more than one year 1,257 25 378 2 415 1,247 Total debt 1,373 34 297 4 1 1,707 Total net debt funds 994 22 403 4 16 1,395 22 Financial liabilities at fair value Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6.
At 31 March 2012 At 31 March 2011 Current Non-c urrent Total Current Non-current Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Put option relating to Monaco Telecom 250 250 96 120 216 Interest rate swap 1 1 Total financial liabilities at fair value 251 251 96 120 216 Interest rate swap At acquisition on 6 April 2011, The Bahamas Telecommunications Company held an interest rate swap to economically hedge the interest rate risks associated with a loan from a consortium of banks led by Citibank N. A.
The effect of the swap is to convert the oating rate loan at US three months LIBOR plus 1.35% into a xed rate loan at 4.59% per annum.
Cable & Wireless Communications 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 22 Financial liabilities at fair value continued As at 31 March 2012, the interest rate swap had a negative fair value of US$1 million.
The hedge did not qualify for hedge accounting, therefore the decrease in negative fair value of US$1 million since acquisition is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The interest rate swap matures on 15 February 2013.
Monaco Telecom put option A put option is held by the non-controlling shareholder of Monaco Telecom, the Principality of Monaco the Principality.
This put option is measured at fair value and is calculated using discounted cash ow techniques, using inputs that are not based on publicly observable market data.
The liability for the put option represents 45% of the market value of Monaco Telecom.
Although the Group considers there to be only a remote likelihood of this put option being exercised, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation requires the present value of the amount payable to be recognised as a liability regardless of the probability of exercise, as this is not within the Groups control.
As this put option was issued as part of a business combination, accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2004, any change in remeasuring the derivative to fair value is recorded as an adjustment to goodwill note 30.
Until 21 March 2012, the put option held by the Principality was exercisable in two tranches.
The first tranche enabled the Principality to put 20% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Group from six months post 18 June 2014 and 2017.
The second tranche enabled the Principality to put 25% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Group three years after the first has been exercised.
On 21 March 2012, the put option agreement was revised.
The revised agreement enables the Principality to put up to 45% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Group in one or several instalments until 30 April 2019.
Accordingly the put option is recognised as a current liability at 31 March 2012.
A reconciliation of the movements in the value of the Monaco Telecom put option is as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m At 1 April 216 189 Changes in fair value recognised as an adjustment to goodwill 27 4 Increase in fair value of put option due to discount unwinding recognised as a finance expense 19 13 Foreign exchange movements recognised in the foreign currency reserve in equity 12 10 At 31 March 250 216 23 Financial instruments at fair value The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method.
The different levels are dened as follows: Level 1 Fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly from prices or indirectly derived from prices.
Level 3 Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
At 31 March 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets measured at fair value: UK and Bahamian Government bonds 15 55 55 Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares at fair value through profit or loss 19 10 10 Derivative instruments 19 8 8 Total financial assets at fair value 65 8 73 Financial liabilities measured at fair value: Interest rate swap 22 1 1 Put option relating to Monaco Telecom 22 250 250 Total financial liabilities at fair value 1 250 251 94 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements At 31 March 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets measured at fair value: UK Government bonds 15 31 31 Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares at fair value through profit or loss 19 20 20 Derivative instruments 19 13 13 Total financial assets at fair value 51 13 64 Financial liabilities measured at fair value: Put option relating to Monaco Telecom 22 216 216 Total financial liabilities at fair value 216 216 24 Deferred tax Accounting policy detailed in note 2.12.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are as follows: Capital allowances on Financial non-current position assets Tax losses Pensions Other offset Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax assets 13 62 6 7 69 19 Deferred tax liabilities 84 11 16 69 42 At 1 April 2010 71 62 5 9 23 Credit charge to profit or loss 14 22 1 9 Tax charged to other comprehensive income 3 3 Exchange differences 2 3 1 1 1 At 31 March 2011 59 43 10 8 34 Deferred tax assets 19 43 3 15 76 4 Deferred tax liabilities 78 13 23 76 38 At 1 April 2011 59 43 10 8 34 Credit charge to profit or loss 65 41 2 14 8 Tax credit to other comprehensive income 2 2 Exchange differences 1 2 1 1 1 At 31 March 2012 7 9 23 25 Deferred tax assets 33 4 2 34 5 Deferred tax liabilities 26 13 25 34 30 At 31 March 2012 7 9 23 25 Cable & Wireless Communications 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 24 Deferred tax continued Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences: Capital allowances available on non-current assets Tax losses Pensions Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2012 207 6,169 171 83 6,630 At 31 March 2011 295 5,653 118 158 6,224 Tax losses recognised and unrecognised expire as follows: 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 US$m US$m Within 1 year Within 3 years Within 5 years Within 10 years 38 35 After more than 10 years 245 Other tax losses are not subject to expiry.
Tax losses of US$6,169 million 31 March 2011 US$5,653 million include UK capital losses of US$5,248 million 31 March 2011 US$5,264 million.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures and associates where the Group controls the timing of remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures and associates for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is US$296 million 31 March 2011 US$316 million.
These temporary differences relate to unremitted earnings.
The Budget on 21 March 2012 announced a change to the UK corporation tax rate to 24%.
This was substantively enacted on 26 March 2012 and is effective from 1 April 2012.
This reduction replaces the decrease to 25% previously enacted in the Finance Act 2011.
Further reductions to the UK corporation tax rate were announced in the March 2012 Budget.
The changes, which are expected to be enacted separately each year, will reduce the rate by 1% per annum, to 22% by 1 April 2014.
These changes had not been substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and therefore are not recognised in these financial statements.
25 Provisions Accounting policy detailed in note 2.13.
Network and asset Redundancy retirement Legal and Property costs obligations other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2011 7 6 28 53 94 Business combinations 10 10 Additional provisions 56 1 14 71 Amounts used 2 55 3 12 72 Unused amounts released 1 3 4 Effect of discounting 2 2 Exchange differences 2 1 3 At 31 March 2012 5 7 35 51 98 Provisions current 5 7 5 44 61 Provisions non-current 30 7 37 96 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements Network and asset Redundancy retirement Legal and Property costs obligations Demerger other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2010 610253456 131 Additional provisions 5147 17 Amounts used 9 38 1 48 Unused amounts released 8 8 Effect of discounting 2 2 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 March 2011 76 28 53 94 Provisions current 7 6 4 4562 Provisions non-current 24 8 32 Property Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties.
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sublet.
The provision is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Redundancy Provision has been made for the total employee related costs of redundancies announced prior to the reporting date.
Amounts provided for and spent during the periods presented primarily relate to regional transformation activities.
The provision is expected to be used within one year.
Network and asset retirement obligations Provision has been made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant leased network capacity.
Provision has also been made for the best estimate of the asset retirement obligation associated with office sites, technical sites, mobile cell sites, domestic and subsea cabling.
This provision is expected to be used at the end of the life of the related asset on which the obligation arises.
Legal and other Legal and other provisions include amounts relating to specic legal claims against the Group together with amounts in respect of certain employee benets and sales taxes.
Demerger The provision comprised costs related to the demerger such as professional fees, redundancy costs and closure costs.
26 Retirement benets obligations Accounting policy detailed in note 2.11.
The Group operates pension schemes for its current and former UK and overseas employees.
These schemes include both dened benefit schemes, where retirement benets are based on employees remuneration and length of service, and dened contribution schemes, where retirement benets reect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid by, and in respect of, employees.
Contributions to the dened benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of independent actuaries who value the schemes.
Dened benefit schemes Cable & Wireless Communications operates the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund CWSF.
This plan provides dened benefit and dened contribution arrangements for current and former employees of the Group.
The CWSF has been closed to new dened benefit members since 1998.
Additionally, the Group operates unfunded dened benefit arrangements in the UK.
These primarily relate to pension provisions for former Directors and other senior employees in respect of their earnings in excess of the previous Inland Revenue salary cap.
The Group operates other dened benefit pension schemes in Macau, Jamaica, Barbados and Guernsey.
Cable & Wireless Communications 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 26 Retirement benets obligations continued Funding valuation Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund The latest triennial actuarial valuation of the CWSF was carried out by independent actuaries Towers Watson Limited as at 31 March 2010.
The March 2010 actuarial valuation showed that based on long-term financial assumptions the contribution rate required to meet the future benefit accrual was 38.4% of pensionable earnings 33.4% employers and 5.0% employees.
This contribution rate will be reviewed when the next triennial valuation is carried out, at 31 March 2013.
The terms of the CWSF Trust Deed also allow the Trustee or the Company to call for a valuation at any time.
Cable & Wireless Communications paid a total contribution of US$2 million in 2011 12 2010 11 US$157 million, comprising deficit funding of US$nil and normal contributions of US$2 million 2010 11 US$149 million and US$8 million respectively, to the CWSF.
A deficit recovery funding plan was also agreed with the Trustees during March 2011 as part of the March 2010 actuarial valuation with the aim that the deficit would be eliminated by April 2016.
The payments under this agreement will fall within the following ranges: July 2014 - 20.5 million to 30.4 million: July 2015 - 21.1 million to 31.3 million: and April 2016 - 21.9 million to 32.5 million.
These contributions are based on best estimated investment returns and are subject to the outcome of the next full valuation due in March 2013.
During 2008, the CWSF Trustee agreed an insurance buy-in of the UK pensioner liabilities with Prudential Insurance.
The buy-in involved the purchase of a bulk annuity policy by the CWSF under which Prudential Insurance assumed responsibility for the benets payable to the CWSFs UK pensioners.
These pensioner liabilities and the matching annuity policy remain within the CWSF.
On 19 December 2011, a further 233 pensioners, those having commenced with pensions in payment since the original annuity, were brought within the bulk annuity policy for a net cost of 57 million, which was funded from gilts held by the CWSF.
Contingent funding agreement The Group is party to a contingent funding agreement with the CWSF Trustee, under which the Trustee can call for a letter of credit or cash escrow in certain circumstances, such as the breach by the Group of certain financial covenants, the incurrence by the Group of secured debt above an agreed level or the failure to maintain available commitments under the revolving credit facilities of at least US$150 million.
Following the Groups issue of the 2020 bonds in January 2012 note 27, and the consequential increase in the Groups available secured borrowings, letters of credit totalling 100 million 2010 11 nil as of 31 March 2012 have been issued in favour of the CWSF Trustee under the Contingent Funding Agreement.
The letters of credit will remain in place pursuant to the terms of the Contingent Funding Agreement which may be until the deficit of the CWSF is fully funded.
IAS 19 Employee Benets valuation Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund and other schemes The IAS 19 valuations of the major dened benefit pension schemes operated by the Group have been updated to 31 March 2012 by qualied independent actuaries.
Lane, Clark & Peacock LLP prepared the valuation for the CWSF and the UK unfunded arrangements.
Towers Watson Limited reviewed the IAS 19 valuations prepared for all remaining schemes.
The main financial assumptions applied in the valuations and an analysis of schemes assets are as follows: 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 CWSF Other schemes CWSF Other schemes Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption US$m % US$m % US$m % US$m % RPI ination assumption 3.2 4.3 3.4 4.3 CPI ination assumption 2.2 Salary increases 3.7 4.9 3.9 4.9 Pension increases 2.0-3.1 3.2 2.2-3.3 3.1 Discount rate 4.9 7.2 5.6 7.4 Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets: Annuity policies 1,225 4.9 1,093 5.6 74 8.0 Equities 323 7.8 98 7.9 251 8.1 96 8.2 Bonds and gilts 101 3.2 166 5.0 85 4.2 87 6.1 Property 40 7.6 6 6.7 43 8.9 Cash and swaps 14 3.3 36 5.3 163 4.3 28 5.7 1,663 340 1,598 328 98 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements Assumptions used are best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The assumptions shown above for other schemes represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the individual schemes.
The assumptions regarding current mortality rates in retirement were set having regard to the actual experience of the CWSFs pensioners and dependants over the three years ended 31 March 2010.
In addition, allowance was made for future mortality improvements in line with medium cohort projections of the 1992 mortality series tables published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, subject to a minimum annual rate of improvement of 1.5%.
These are the mortality rates used for calculating the statement of financial position for the year ended 31 March 2012.
The mortality rates used for the gure in the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2012 are the same as those which were used for calculating the statement of financial position for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Based on these assumptions, the life expectancies of pensioners aged 60 are as follows: On On On 31 March 31 March 31 March 2012 2022 2032 years years years Male pensioners and dependants 27.8 29.4 31.0 Female pensioners 26.6 28.1 29.6 Female dependants 32.5 34.1 35.7 A one year increase in the life expectancy assumptions would have increased the CWSF liabilities by approximately US$44 million as at 31 March 2012.
The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy would be US$31 million.
A 0.25% pa decrease in the discount rate used to value the scheme liabilities would have increased the liabilities by around US$67 million.
The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy would be US$39 million.
A 0.25% pa change in the assumed rate of salary increases would have changed the liabilities by a negligible amount.
Excluding the annuities, which are measured at the value of the obligation to which they relate, the overall expected rate of return for each pension scheme is a weighted average of the expected asset return for each asset class.
The expected asset return for each asset class has been set as a best estimate of the long-term return that will be achieved for the particular asset class in the country in question having regard to investment yields on the measurement date.
Using the projected unit method for the valuation of liabilities, the current service cost is expected to increase when expressed as a percentage of pensionable payroll as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
The assets and liabilities of the dened benefit pension schemes and post-retirement medical plans operated by the Group were as follows: 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Other Other CWSF schemes Total CWSF schemes Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total fair value of plan assets 1,663 340 2,003 1,598 328 1,926 Present value of funded obligations 1,766 306 2,072 1,619 281 1,900 Excess of liabilities assets of funded obligations 103 34 69 21 47 26 Present value of unfunded obligations 45 45 41 41 Impact of the minimum funding requirement 26 26 57 57 Effect of asset ceiling 9 9 14 14 Exchange differences 3 1 4 Net deficit 129 20 149 81 9 90 Dened benefit pension plans in deficit 129 60 189 81 52 133 Dened benefit pension plans in surplus 4040 4343 Net deficit 129 20 149 81 9 90 Included within these liabilities is an amount of US$29 million 2010 11 US$26 million to cover the cost of former Directors pension entitlements.
Cable & Wireless Communications 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 26 Retirement benets obligations continued The deficit recovery funding plan agreed with the Trustees of the CWSF during 2010 11 constitutes a minimum funding requirement.
An adjustment to the deficit in the CWSF to account for the minimum funding requirement has been calculated in accordance with IFRIC 14 The limits on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The adjustment to the deficit, which is recorded in other comprehensive income, was US$26 million as at 31 March 2012 2010 11 US$57 million.
When dened benefit funds have an IAS 19 surplus, they are recorded at the lower of that surplus and the future economic benets available in the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions.
Any adjustment to the surplus is recorded in other comprehensive income.
The effect of these adjustments, described as asset ceiling adjustments, were US$9 million as at 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 US$14 million.
The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 Other Other CWSF schemes Total CWSF schemes Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Current service cost 2 8 10 2 6 8 Past service credit 4 4 Interest cost 88 20 108 82 20 102 Expected return on plan assets 92 22 114 78 22 100 Gains on curtailment or settlement 22 Total net credit charge 6 6 6 2 8 The actual return on plan assets was a gain of US$162 million 2010 11 gain of US$120 million.
The total amount recognised in other comprehensive income cumulatively to 31 March 2012 is a loss of US$667 million 2010 11 loss of US$595 million.
In 2011 12, net actuarial losses amounting to US$113 million 2010 11 gains of US$16 million have been recognised in other comprehensive income.
No further gains were recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of contributions from Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc 2010 11 US$2 million.
Gains of US$7 million were recognised due to changes in asset ceilings 2010 11 loss of US$3 million.
A gain of US$34 million was recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of minimum funding requirements 2010 11 loss of US$57 million.
Changes in the present value of the dened benefit pension obligations are as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 Other Other CWSF schemes Total CWSF schemes Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 1,619 322 1,941 1,477 317 1,794 Current service cost 2 8 10 2 6 8 Past service credit 4 4 Interest cost 88 20 108 82 20 102 Actuarial losses gains recognised in other comprehensive income 148 13 161 23 18 5 Employee contributions 5 5 5 5 Gains on curtailment or settlement 22 Benets paid 84 13 97 78 17 95 Exchange differences 347 113 11 124 At 31 March 1,766 351 2,117 1,619 322 1,941 100 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements Changes in the fair value of dened benefit assets are as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 Other Other CWSF schemes Total CWSF schemes Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 1,598 328 1,926 1,312 307 1,619 Expected return 92 22 114 78 22 100 Actuarial gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income 58 10 48 28 7 21 Contributions by employer 21214 157 7 164 Employee contributions 55 55 Assets acquired 2 2 Benets paid 84 13 97 78 17 95 Exchange differences 3 4 7 99 11 110 At 31 March 1,663 340 2,003 1,598 328 1,926 Experience gains on plan assets and liabilities at the end of the periods presented were as follows: 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Other Other Other CWSF schemes CWSF schemes CWSF schemes US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Plan assets 1,663 340 1,598 328 1,312 307 Dened benefit obligations 1,766 351 1,619 322 1,477 317 Effect of minimum funding requirement 26 57 Exchange differences 3 deficit surplus excluding the effects of the asset ceiling 129 11 81 6 165 10 Experience gains losses on plan assets 58 10 27 7 521 24 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 22 4 23 5 27 4 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 Other Other CWSF schemes CWSF schemes US$m US$m US$m US$m Plan assets 2,407 403 4,229 454 Dened benefit obligations 2,453 428 3,479 422 deficit surplus excluding the effects of the asset ceiling 46 25 750 32 Experience losses gains on plan assets 946 81 126 2 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities 35 2 28 16 The best estimate of contributions to the dened benefit schemes for 2012 13 is: Other CWSF schemes Total US$m US$m US$m Employer contributions 29 11 Employee contributions 5 5 Based on an employer contribution rate of 33.4% of pensionable earnings plus contributions due under the agreed recovery plan and the estimated PPF levy payable in the year ended 31 March 2012.
Cable & Wireless Communications 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 27 Equity.
5 Accounting policy detailed in note 2.9.
Share capital Number of shares 000 US$m Issued, called-up and fully paid shares of US5 cents each At 1 April 2010 2,624,572 131 Allotted under scrip dividends 41,040 2 At 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2012 2,665,612 133 The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was US$nil 2010 11 US$2 million.
Included within the number of shares disclosed in the table above are treasury shares and shares held by The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust the Trust.
No treasury shares of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were cancelled during the periods presented.
Share buy-back On 21 July 2010, the Groups shareholders approved a resolution at the AGM for the Group to purchase up to 262 million ordinary shares.
This authority to buy-back these shares expired at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 22 July 2011.
Under the resolution, during the year ended 31 March 2012, the Company purchased 94,726,873 ordinary shares 2010 11 42,762,000 ordinary shares at an average price of 43 pence per share US70 cents per share 2010 11 49 pence per share US80 cents per share, with a nominal value of US$5 million 2010 11 US$2 million, for consideration of US$66 million 2010 11 US$34 million.
Consideration included stamp duty and commission of US$0.4 million 2010 11 US$0.2 million.
On 22 July 2011, the Groups shareholders approved a resolution at the AGM for the Group to purchase up to 257 million ordinary shares.
This authority to buy-back these shares expires at the conclusion of the Companys AGM in 2012 or 30 September 2012, whichever is the earlier.
Under the resolution, no shares have been purchased since the AGM on 22 July 2011.
At 31 March 2012, a total of 137,488,873 shares were classied as treasury shares 31 March 2011 42,762,000.
This represented 5% of called-up share capital at the beginning of the year 2010 11 2%.
The nominal value and market value of treasury shares held at 31 March 2012 was US$7 million 2010 11 US$2 million and US$71 million 2010 11 US$31 million respectively.
Disclosures in respect of the shares held by the Trust are included in note 28.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, each share other than those held in treasury entitles the holder to one vote at General Meetings of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc.
The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but the payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
There are no restrictions on the repayment of capital other than those imposed by law.
For further information refer to pages 39 to 40 of the Directors report.
There were no allotments of ordinary shares of US5 cents made during the year.
In 2010 11, 41 million shares with a cash equivalent value of US$37 million were issued as payment for dividends by scrip.
Capital management The Group defines capital as equity, borrowings note 21 and cash and cash equivalents note 18.
The Group does not have any externally imposed requirements for managing capital, other than those imposed by Company Law.
The Boards objective is to maintain a capital structure that supports the Groups strategic objectives, including but not limited to reshaping the portfolio through mergers and acquisitions.
In doing so the Board seeks to: Manage funding and liquidity risk Optimise shareholder return Maintain credit ratings This strategy is unchanged from the prior year.
The Group has taken initial steps to reshape the portfolio by disposing of its interests in Telecom Vanuatu Limited and Fi International Telecoms Limited during the year and Cable & Wireless Bermuda Holdings and its subsidiaries during the prior year note 7a and by acquiring The Bahamas Telecommunications Company completed on 6 April 2011 note 30.
102 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements Funding and liquidity risk are reviewed regularly by the Board and managed in accordance with the policies described in note 35.
The Articles of Association of the Company permit aggregate borrowing up to the higher of three times the adjusted capital and reserves of the Group or US$3 billion.
The Group ensures that sufficient funds and distributable reserves are held to allow payments of projected dividends to shareholders and it intends to target a sustainable and progressive dividend that reects the underlying cash generation and growth outlook of the business.
This process is managed through the Groups budget and longer-term forecasting process.
During the year the Group replaced the US$500 million revolving credit facility and US$100 million term loan facility originally due to be repaid in 2013 with US$600 million revolving credit facilities due 2016.
The Group also issued US$400 million of Senior Secured Notes with a coupon of 8.75% due in 2020 to replace the 200 million bonds maturing in August 2012.
The notes were credit rated by Moodys at Ba2 and by Standard and Poors at BB and during the year the Group has maintained the same credit rating on the US$500 million secured bonds due in 2017.
The sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 maintained a rating with Standard and Poors of B.
Foreign currency translation and hedging reserve The foreign currency translation and hedging reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency different to the presentation currency of the Group.
It also includes cumulative exchange differences arising on the translation of hedging instruments.
Capital and other reserves In 2011 12, other reserves included a capital redemption reserve of US$152 million 2010 11 US$152 million, a revaluation reserve of US$30 million 2010 11 US$30 million, a fair value reserve of US$16 million 2010 11 US$11 million, a special reserve of US$2,137 million 2010 11 US$2,137 million and a capital reserve of US$987 million 2010 11 US$1,187 million, less a reserve relating to transactions with non-controlling interests of US$1 million 2010 11 US$1 million.
The special reserve relates to the cancellation of the share premium account of Cable & Wireless Limited formerly Cable and Wireless plc in February 2004.
It will reduce from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid-up share capital and share premium account of Cable & Wireless Limited after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new consideration or upon a capitalisation of distributable reserves.
On 26 March 2010, a court-approved capital reduction became effective which had the effect of creating a capital reserve of US$1,931 million which may be released, in whole or in part, to distributable reserves of the Company at the discretion and upon the resolution of the Board of Directors or a duly constituted committee of the Board of Directors.
During 2011 12, the Board approved the release of US$200 million from the capital reserve to distributable reserves 2010 11 US$742 million.
28 Share-based payments Accounting policy detailed in note 2.11.
Share option schemes The Group does not currently have any outstanding share option awards over its own shares 2010 11 nil.
There are 7,710,684 outstanding share option awards relating to options granted by Cable and Wireless plc to senior employees 2010 11 13,705,773 outstanding options.
These options were originally granted over Cable and Wireless plc shares at exercise prices between 101 to 154 pence.
All options have vested in full.
Subsequent to the demerger, these options have been redesignated as an option over a stapled unit of one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc an unrelated company.
The share prices of the two companies at 31 March 2012 were such that the obligation for these stapled unit options was US$nil at 31 March 2011 US$nil.
During the year, no options were exercised 2010 11 575,000 options at an average share price of 104 pence.
425,000 of these were exercised by senior employees of the Group.
The remainder were exercised by senior employees of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc.
5,995,089 options lapsed during the year 2010 11 nil.
Cable & Wireless Communications 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 28 Share-based payments continued Other equity instrument awards Performance shares Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The vesting of outstanding performance shares is subject to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc absolute TSR performance conditions see performance conditions for share-based award on page 51.
A dividend award supplement operates on these awards.
Dividends that would have been paid on the performance shares which vest will be regarded as having been reinvested in additional shares at the notional date of distribution.
Prior to the demerger, performance share awards made by Cable and Wireless plc were subject either to relative or to absolute TSR performance of Cable and Wireless plc or the Cable & Wireless Communications business.
Subsequent to the demerger, some individuals awards were adjusted into an award over shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and some individuals retained their right to an award over one Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc share for every Cable and Wireless plc share they previously held.
Restricted Share Plan Restricted shares are awarded to senior management and selected other employees, primarily as a retention or a recruitment tool.
Generally, restricted shares vest over periods of one to three years from grant date.
Cable & Wireless Communications Share Purchase Plan The Company also offered its employees, who are chargeable to income tax under Section 15 Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003, the opportunity to participate in the Cable & Wireless Communications Share Purchase Plan which is a HMRC-approved share incentive plan.
Under the Share Purchase Plan, employees can contribute up to 1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year whichever is the lower, to buy partnership shares in the Company, and the Company offered a matching award of one share for each partnership share purchased.
From 13 April 2012, the Share Purchase Plan is no longer offered.
The existing shares will remain in the plan until such time as they would ordinarily vest in accordance with plan rules.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust the Trust is a discretionary trust, which was funded by loans from Cable and Wireless plc now Cable & Wireless Limited to acquire shares in Cable and Wireless plc.
Subsequent to the demerger, the shares held by the Trust were converted into one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc for every share in Cable and Wireless plc held.
At 31 March 2012, the Trust held 37,524,230 shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc of which 1,325,300 are shares awarded to the Executive Directors under the Deferred Bonus Plan and which carry dividend rights and 15,398,747 shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc 2010 11 40,054,310 shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and 19,798,744 shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc with a market value of US$28 million 2010 11 US$46 million.
Share awards The equity instruments granted during the year can be summarised as follows: Awards granted during 2011 12 and 2010 11 Awards of Awards of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shares granted during 2011 12 shares granted during 2010 11 Weighted Weighted average Features average Features fair value incorporated fair value incorporated Award Shares p ence share in schemes Shares pence share in schemes Restricted shares 577,621 45 1 Restricted shares LTIP 9,108,032 44 Share purchase plan scheme matching shares 129,822 41 147,264 57 TSR TSR Performance shares 9,237,768 17 conditions 7,645,106 30 conditions 1 Restricted shares LTIP represents the cash LTIP amount recognised through profit or loss in prior periods, which have been converted into restricted shares during the year in respect of senior employees.
104 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements Only the performance share grants made during 2011 12 and 2010 11 have performance criteria attached.
A fair value exercise was completed at 31 March 2012 for grants made during 2011 12 using the Monte Carlo method.
The remaining awards had no performance conditions attached.
The Monte Carlo pricing model assumptions used in the pricing of the performance share grants in 2011 12 and 2010 11 were: 2011 12 2010 11 Weighted average share price pence per share 43.29 62.85 Dividend yield 5.0% 6.0% Expected volatility 34.0% 36.0% Risk-free interest rates 1.26% 1.35% Expected life in years 3.0 3.0 The total expense during the year relating to share-based payments which are equity settled transactions was US$4 million 2010 11 US$3 million.
A summary of the outstanding share awards at 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011 are as follows: 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Weighted Weighted average average Number of remaining life Number of remaining life shares rounded to shares rounded to Award outstanding nearest year outstanding nearest year Restricted shares 739,176 1 1,964,956 1 Restricted shares LTIP 8,165,822 1 Restricted shares subject to TSR condition 5,500,000 Share purchase plan scheme matching shares 3,385,093 3,432,034 1 Performance shares 24,901,564 1 18,032,481 2 29 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities Commitments The Group had capital commitments at the end of the financial year relating to the purchase of plant and equipment of US$93 million 2010 11 US$64 million.
No provision has been made for these commitments.
US$9 million 31 March 2011 US$12 million of these commitments relate to the Groups share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures and associates.
In addition, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Groups business.
The most significant of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs.
In the event of default of another party, the Group may be liable to additional contributions under the terms of the agreements.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses and renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2012 is disclosed in note 6a.
The aggregate future minimum lease payments under operating leases are: 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 US$m US$m No later than one year 39 41 Later than one year but not later than five years 92 88 Later than five years 39 37 Total minimum operating lease payments 170 166 Cable & Wireless Communications 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 29 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities continued Guarantees and contingent liabilities Guarantees at the end of the year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 US$m US$m Trading guarantees 47 38 Other guarantees 39 286 Total guarantees 86 324 Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that the Group will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions.
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials.
The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Other guarantees include guarantees for financial obligations principally in respect of property, other leases and letters of credit, and include guarantees in respect of the demerged business of Cable & Wireless Worldwide.
The Group has provided guarantees of US$2 million 2010 11 US$17 million to third parties in respect of trading contracts between third parties and the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group.
The Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group has agreed a fee schedule for the benefit of these guarantees.
To date, the Group has not been required to make any payments in respect of its obligations under these trading guarantees.
Under the Separation Agreement, Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide agree to provide each other with certain customary indemnities on a reciprocal basis in respect of liabilities which the Group may incur but which relate exclusively to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group and vice versa and in respect of an agreed proportion of liabilities which do not relate exclusively to one Group or the other.
Whilst Pender, the Groups former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003, it has in the past written policies in favour of the Group and third parties.
Potentially significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers.
significant progress has been made in resolving these claims.
Details of these insurance claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial to the outcome of such claims note 33.
In addition, the Group, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, has given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years.
Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some uncapped indemnities have been given.
The Group also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements.
Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
Whilst the Group has ceased participation in the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund MNOPF, it may be liable for contributions to fund a portion of any funding deficits which may occur in the future.
The Group has made arrangements with MNOPF to pay invoices totalling 1.7 million, plus interest, relating to the actuarial valuations made by the MNOPF trustee as at 31 March 2003, 2006 and 2009, by instalments over the next nine years.
It is possible that the MNOPF trustee may invoice us in the future for additional amounts to the extent that there is an actuarially determined funding deficit.
It is not possible to quantify the amount of any potential additional funding liability at this time.
30 Business combinations and acquisitions of non-controlling interests Accounting policy detailed in note 2.5a.
The Bahamas Telecommunications Company On 6 April 2011, the Group acquired 51% of the share capital of The Bahamas Telecommunications Company BTC from the Government of the Commonwealth of The Bahamas.
BTC is the exclusive mobile operator in The Bahamas as well as a leading provider of xed line and broadband services.
It is complementary to the Groups Caribbean business, LIME, which is the leading full service telecommunications provider in the region.
The cash consideration paid by the Group was US$204 million.
Goodwill of US$63 million was recognised on acquisition.
The net cash outow on acquisition was US$148 million.
106 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements The Directors have made an assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities as at the acquisition date: Provisional Final fair fair value at value at Fair value 30 September 31 March Book value adjustments 2011 Adjustments 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Property, plant and equipment 384 129 255 3 252 Customer contracts and relationships 31 31 31 Trademarks 11 1 Available-for-sale financial assets 20 20 20 Trade and other receivables 56 9 47 10 57 Inventories 13 5 8 8 Cash and cash equivalents 59 59 3 56 Trade and other payables 93 10 103 103 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 2 2 2 Provisions 5 5 5 10 Borrowings 34 34 34 Total 403 126 277 1 276 Goodwill arising on the acquisition of BTC included the value of expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing business and other intangible assets that did not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets as they were unable to be separately identied.
Acquisition costs related to BTC of US$7 million were recorded in other operating expenses in 2011 12 2010 11 US$7 million.
A non-controlling interest of US$135 million has been recognised in the 2011 12 accounts as at acquisition date measured at cost.
In 2011 12, from the date of its acquisition on 6 April 2011, BTC contributed US$352 million to Group revenue, US$91 million to Group EBITDA and US$13 million to Group profit after tax.
There is no material difference in the results of BTC included in these accounts since acquisition on 6 April 2011 and the results of BTC for the full year from 1 April 2011.
Monaco Telecom Goodwill in connection with the Groups investment in Monaco Telecom SAM increased by US$33 million during the year 2010 11 US$19 million increase.
The goodwill balance increased as a result of the payment of dividends to the Principality of Monaco, exchange differences and changes in the fair value of the put option.
As part of the acquisition of Monaco Telecom a put option was issued note 22.
Changes in the fair value of this put option are treated as contingent consideration and adjusted against goodwill.
Cash dividends paid to the Principality of Monaco reected an increase in the Groups investment in Monaco Telecom and therefore an increase to goodwill.
Goodwill 2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m At 1 April 172 153 Increase as a result of changes in the fair value of Monaco put option 27 4 Dividends paid to the Principality 17 7 Decrease increase due to exchange differences 11 8 At 31 March 205 172 Cable & Wireless Communications 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 31 Related party transactions Transactions with joint ventures and associates All trade transactions with joint ventures and associates arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of the Groups products and services, network and access charges.
Group subsidiaries had transactions with Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd during the year.
The transactions were in relation to the sale and purchase of mobile services.
In respect of these transactions, US$3 million has been reported within revenue and US$1 million in cost of sales.
During the year, the Group invested US$5 million in Seychelles Cable System Limited which is classied as an associate.
The Group received dividends of US$4 million from joint ventures and associates 2010 11 US$9 million.
At 31 March 2012, joint ventures and associates owed US$2 million 31 March 2011 US$1 million in respect of trading balances.
There were no other material trade transactions with joint ventures and associates during the year.
Transactions with key management personnel At 31 March 2011, two Directors held bonds issued by Cable & Wireless Limited and Cable and Wireless International Finance B. V. with a nominal value of US$4,211,156 2,630,000 purchased in prior periods.
Both Directors sold their entire holding during the year ended 31 March 2012.
The interest earned on these bonds prior to disposal during the year ended 31 March 2012 was US$55,426 of which US$nil remains unpaid at 31 March 2012 2010 11 US$354,033 of which US$154,103 remained unpaid at 31 March 2011.
A profit of US$790,719 was realised upon the sale of the bonds.
Two Directors spouses hold bonds issued by Cable & Wireless Limited and Cable and Wireless International Finance BV.
The interest earned on those bonds during the year was US$67,530 of which US$1,804 remained unpaid at 31 March 2012 2010 11 US$65,378 of which US$2,000 remained unpaid at 31 March 2011.
During the year, two children of a Director purchased bonds issued by Cable and Wireless International Finance BV.
These bonds had a nominal value at 31 March 2012 of US$798,350 500,000.
The interest earned on those bonds during the year was US$25,410 of which US$940 remained unpaid at 31 March 2012.
Director and key management remuneration is disclosed in note 6c.
Transactions with other related parties There are no controlling shareholders of the Group.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Group.
Pensions contributions to Group schemes are disclosed in note 26.
Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no other material related parties.
32 Licences and operating agreements In all countries in which it operates, the Group holds licences to operate or operating agreements.
These licences and operating agreements take a variety of forms and their terms, rights and obligations vary signicantly.
The Group assumes that it will renew these licences and operating agreements as they expire.
Previous history indicates this is the most likely outcome.
The Group is currently in the process of renewing its licences and operating agreements in St Helena, Ascension Islands, Antigua & Barbuda and Montserrat.
Whilst the operating agreements between Monaco Telecom and the Principality of Monaco were not due to expire until 2023, during the last year they were consolidated into a single operating agreement, whose terms took effect from 1 April 2011.
The consolidation does not materially affect the terms under which Monaco Telecom operates its business.
Additionally, effective from 1 September 2011, Guernseys 2G and 3G mobile licences were consolidated into a single mobile licence.
The consolidation does not materially affect the terms under which the Group operates its Guernsey business.
The Group does not have any concession agreements with Governments that fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements.
On demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture entity owned by, and for the continuing use of, the Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide Groups.
As part of this transfer, Cable & Wireless Communications received a royalty-free licence, granting rights to use the Cable & Wireless brand in all of the Groups jurisdictions with the exception of Macau and North and West Africa, which are branded differently.
Further, the Group retains a licence to use the Cable & Wireless logo globally.
There were no other significant changes to the terms of the licences held by the Groups subsidiaries or operating agreements with Governments during the periods presented.
108 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements 33 Legal proceedings In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews.
The facts and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated in determining whether it is more likely than not that there will be a future outow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specic case is necessary or sufficient.
Accordingly, significant management judgement relating to provisions and contingent liabilities is required since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict.
The Group does not expect the ultimate resolution of the actions to which it is a party to have a significant adverse impact on the financial position of the Group.
34 Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Accounting policy detailed in note 2.1.
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the financial statements.
Issued share capital Ownership Class of Country of million % shares incorporation Area of operation Subsidiaries 5 The Bahamas Telecommunications Company Ltd 255 51 Ordinary The Bahamas The Bahamas Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd 16,817 82 Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica 1 Cable & Wireless Panama, SA 316 49 Ordinary Panama Panama 2 Companhia fide Telecomunicacoes fide Macau, SARL 150 51 Ordinary Macau Macau and China Cable & Wireless Barbados Ltd 72 81 Ordinary Barbados Barbados Cable and Wireless West Indies Ltd 5 100 Ordinary England Caribbean Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC Dhiraagu 190 52 Ordinary Maldives Maldives 4 Monaco Telecom SAM 2 49 Ordinary Monaco Monaco Cable & Wireless Ltd 656 100 Ordinary England England Sable International Finance Ltd 100 Ordinary Cayman England Cable and Wireless International Finance BV 1 100 Ordinary Netherlands England Joint ventures and associates Cable & Wireless Trademark Management Ltd 50 Ordinary England N A 3 Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd 283 49 Ordinary Trinidad and Tobago Trinidad and Tobago 1 The Cable & Wireless Communications Group regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders agreement.
2 This company has a financial year end of 31 December due to the requirements of the shareholders agreement.
3 This company is audited by a rm other than KPMG Audit Plc and its international member rms.
4 The Cable & Wireless Communications Group holds an economic interest of 55% in Monaco Telecom SAM via a contractual arrangement.
See below for further discussion.
On 18 June 2004, the Group acquired 55% of Monaco Telecom, a Monaco-based telecommunications service provider, from Vivendi Universal.
Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless Communications transferred legal ownership of 6% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to an unrelated third party.
The Group contractually retained voting and economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement.
In addition, the 6% interest is subject to certain put and call options that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide full management control of Monaco Telecom to the Group.
The Group has also entered into a shareholders agreement with the Principality of Monaco Principality that contains, among other provisions, mutual pre-emption rights on transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the Principality.
The Principality has a put option entitling it to put its 45% shareholding in Monaco Telecom to the Group in one or several instalments until 30 April 2019.
The exercise price under the put option is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the minority stake in Monaco Telecom note 22.
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates and trade investments will be attached to the Companys next Annual Return, to be led with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
Cable & Wireless Communications 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 35 Financial risk management Treasury policy The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Day to day management of treasury activities is delegated to the Groups treasury function Treasury, within specified financial limits for each type of transaction and counterparty.
To the extent that subsidiaries undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities.
Material subsidiary positions are monitored by Treasury.
Where appropriate, transactions are reported to the Board.
All subsidiaries are required to report details of their cash and debt positions to Treasury on a monthly basis.
The key responsibilities of Treasury include funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency risk.
The majority of the Groups cash resources including facilities and borrowings are managed centrally by Treasury.
The Group may use derivatives including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and options, where appropriate, in the management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures.
The use of these instruments is in accordance with strategies agreed from time to time by Treasury and subject to policies approved by the Board.
Derivatives are not used for trading or speculative purposes and derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported by Treasury on a regular basis and are subject to policies adopted by the Board.
Exchange rate risk The Group trades in many countries and a proportion of its revenue is generated in currencies other than US dollars, notably in euros, Maldivian ruyaa, sterling and Jamaican dollars.
The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to non-US dollar currency payments including external dividends, the London corporate centre costs, pension and share buy-back costs, dividend income from foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of non-US dollar investments.
Exchange risk is managed centrally by the London corporate centre on a matching cash ow basis including forecast foreign currency cash repatriation inows from subsidiaries and forecast foreign currency payments.
See note 2.3 for key exchange rates used.
Where appropriate, the Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in the short term.
The Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create significant foreign exchange exposures for the Group where appropriate.
Where cost-effective and possible, foreign subsidiaries are nanced in their domestic currency to minimise the impact of translation of foreign currency denominated borrowings.
As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value of overseas investments, the Group may, from time to time, elect to match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value of foreign investments.
The reported profits of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.
Overseas earnings are predominately in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar.
However, the Group also has overseas earnings in other currencies.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in relation to financial instruments which are not in the functional currency of the entity that holds them.
In broad terms, based on financial assets and liabilities as at 31 March 2012 the impact of a unilateral 10% weakening of the US dollar would have been to decrease profit by approximately US$30 million at 31 March 2011 US$23 million.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on its surplus cash balances and variable rate loans although there is a degree of offset between the two.
Treasury may seek to reduce volatility by xing a proportion of this interest rate exposure whilst taking account of prevailing market conditions as appropriate.
At 31 March 2012, 86% 31 March 2011 81% of the Groups loans were at a xed rate.
A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable impact upon the fair value of the Groups xed rate loans.
However, no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place until maturity.
As a result, there is no exposure to fair value loss on xed rate borrowings and, as such, its effect has not been modelled.
A one percentage point increase in interest rates will have a US$3 million 2010 11 US$3 million impact on the income received from the surplus cash balances of the Group and a US$2 million 2010 11 US$3 million impact on the oating rate loans of the Group.
The impact on equity is limited to the impact on profit or loss.
Credit risk Cash deposits and similar financial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty failed to perform as contracted.
The carrying amount of the financial assets of the Group represents the maximum credit exposure of the Group.
Management seeks to reduce this credit risk by ensuring the counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Groups financial instruments are the core relationship banks.
These banks are awarded a maximum credit limit based on ratings by Standard & Poors and Moodys, the level of the banks credit default swap CDS and its associated level of tier one capital.
The credit limit assigned to counterparties is monitored on a continuing basis.
These limits reect exposure for the Group as a whole to any one counterparty in a range of US$25 million to US$100 million.
110 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Financial statements The Group Treasury policy approved by the Board contains limits on exposure and prescribes the types of instrument used for investment of funds.
Credit risk on receivables is discussed in note 16.
Liquidity risk The Group ensures that the operating units manage their own operational liquidity supported by the London corporate centre, which manages its own liquidity to meet its financial obligations of servicing and repaying external debt, external dividends, London costs and strategic initiatives.
The principal source of liquidity for the London corporate centre is repatriation cash inows from the operating units supported by bank finance, bond issuances and asset disposals.
At 31 March 2012, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of US$312 million.
These amounts are highly liquid and are a significant component of the Groups overall liquidity and capital resources, which also includes the undrawn revolving credit facilities of US$600 million.
During the year, the Group entered into a new high yield bond for US$400 million, secured until 2020.
Liquidity forecasts are produced on a regular basis to ensure the utilisation of current facilities is optimised, to ensure covenant compliance and that medium-term liquidity is maintained and for the purpose of identifying long-term strategic funding requirements.
The Directors also regularly assess the balance of capital and debt funding of the Group.
Approximately 40% of the Groups cash is invested in short-term bank deposits and money market funds 2010 11 39%.
Certain foreign subsidiaries operate in jurisdictions which may restrict the ability to repatriate cash to the Group from time to time.
Where restrictions are severe, local cash balances are excluded from cash and cash equivalents.
36 Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures Reconciliation of operating profit to EBITDA 2011 12 2010 11 US$m US$m Total operating profit 247 536 Depreciation and amortisation 358 321 LTIP charge 24 Net other operating expense 12 28 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 26 31 Exceptional items 310 6 EBITDA 901 872 The Group uses EBITDA as a key performance measure as it reects the underlying operational performance of the businesses.
EBITDA is not a measure dened under IFRS.
It is calculated as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP charge, net other operating and non-operating income and expense and exceptional items.
Reconciliation of basic Earnings Per Share EPS to Adjusted EPS 2011 12 2010 11 US cents US cents Loss earnings per share attributable to owners of the Parent Company 3.1 7.6 LTIP charge 0.9 1 Exceptional items 9.4 0.3 1 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 0.5 0.4 Transaction costs and gain on disposal of businesses 0.3 1.4 Adjusted EPS attributable to owners of the Parent Company 6.5 7.2 Weighted average number of shares million 2,506 2,607 1 Excluding amounts attributable to non-controlling interests.
Adjusted EPS is before exceptional items, LTIP charge, transaction costs, gain loss on disposal of businesses and amortisation of acquired intangibles.
37 Events after the reporting period Accounts approval These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2012 and authorised for issue.
