NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Principal Accounting Policies A summary of the principal accounting policies, which are unchanged e Income from the prior year and have been applied consistently, are set out below.
i Income from equity investments, is brought into account on the date on which the investments are quoted ex-dividend or, where a Basis of Accounting no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under receive payment is established.
Equity investment income includes the historical cost convention, modied to include the revaluation of xed distributions from Collective Investment Schemes, other than those asset investments and derivatives which are recorded at fair value that relate to equalisation which are treated as capital items.
through profit or loss, and on the assumption that approval as an ii Interest from xed interest securities including the zero coupon investment trust will continue to be granted.
The financial statements have element of the swap rate linked note is recognised on an effective been prepared in accordance with The Companies Act 2006, yield basis.
applicable UK accounting standards and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust iii Unfranked investment income and overseas dividends include the Companies issued in January 2009. taxes deducted at source.
In order to better reect the activities of the Company and in accordance iv Franked investment income is stated net of tax credits.
with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which v Underwriting commission and interest receivable on deposits are analyses the Income Statement between items of a revenue and capital recognised on an accruals basis.
vi If scrip is taken in lieu of dividends in cash, the net amount of the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Companys cash dividend declared is credited to the revenue account.
Any balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the the instrument.
cash dividend foregone is recognised as capital.
The Directors consider the Companys functional currency to be sterling f Expenses as the Companys shareholders are predominantly based in the UK and All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis and are charged the Company is subject to the UKs regulatory environment.
through the revenue column of the Income Statement except where they b Investments relate directly to the acquisition or disposal of an investment, in which Investment purchases and sales are recognised on a trade date basis.
case they are added to the cost of the investment or deducted from the Expenses incidental to acquisition are included in purchase cost and sale proceeds.
expenses incidental to sale are deducted from proceeds of sale.
Gains g Long Term Borrowings and Finance Costs and losses on investments are recognised in the Income Statement as Long term borrowings are carried in the balance sheet at amortised cost, capital items.
representing the cumulative amount of net proceeds after issue, plus Investments are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss on accrued finance costs.
The finance costs of such borrowings are initial recognition and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair allocated to the revenue column of the Income Statement at a constant value.
The fair value of listed investments is bid value, or in the case of rate on the carrying amount.
Issue costs are written off at a constant rate FTSE 100 constituents, at last traded prices issued by the London Stock over the life of the borrowings.
Gains and losses on the repurchase or Exchange.
Listed investments include Open Ended Investment Companies early settlement of debt is wholly charged to capital.
OEICs authorised in the UK: these are valued at closing prices and are classied in the list of investments according to the principal h Deferred Taxation geographical area of the underlying holdings.
The fair value of unlisted Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences which have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date, calculated on a investments uses valuation techniques, determined by the Directors, based upon latest dealing prices, stockbroker valuations, net asset values non-discounted basis at the tax rates expected to apply when the timing and other information, as appropriate.
differences reverse, based on what has been enacted or substantively enacted, relevant to the benefit or liability.
Deferred tax assets are c Derivatives recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that there will The Company may use derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio be taxable profits from which underlying timing differences can be management including reducing, transferring or eliminating risk in its deducted.
investments and protection against currency risk and to achieve capital growth.
Such instruments are recognised on the date of the contract that i Dividend Distributions creates the Companys obligation to pay or receive cash ows and are Interim dividends are recognised in the period in which they are paid and final dividends are recognised in the period in which the dividends measured as financial assets or liabilities at fair value at subsequent reporting dates, while the relevant contracts remain open.
The fair value are approved by the Companys shareholders.
is determined by reference to the open market value of the contract.
j Foreign Currencies Where the investment rationale for the use of derivatives is to hedge Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling specic risks pertaining to the Companys portfolio composition, hedge at the time of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities and xed accounting will only be adopted where the derivative instrument relates asset investment in foreign currencies are translated at the closing rates specically to a single item, or group of items, of equal and opposite of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Forward foreign exchange financial exposure, and where the derivative instrument has been contracts are valued at the forward rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
explicitly designated as a hedge of such item s at the date of initial Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rate subsequent to recognition.
In all other circumstances changes in the fair value of the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the derivative instruments are recognised immediately in the Income Income Statement as capital or revenue as appropriate.
Statement as capital or revenue as appropriate.
k Capital Reserve d Cash and Liquid Resources Gains and losses on realisation of investments, changes in the fair value Cash and liquid resources includes cash in hand, deposits held at call of investments held, exchange differences of a capital nature and the with banks and other short term highly liquid investments with original amount by which the market value of assets and liabilities differs from maturities of three months or less.
their book value are dealt with in this reserve.
Purchases of the Companys own shares for cancellation are also funded from this reserve.
