Kingsway Judd Street Hunter Street Grays Inn Road Grays Inn Road Tottenham Court Road Wolburn Place Southampton Row Russell Square NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Kings Cross St. Pancras Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the eighty-third Annual General Meeting of The Monks Investment Trust PLC will be held at the Hotel Russell, 18 Russell Square, Bloomsbury, London WC1B 5BE on Tuesday, 7 August 2012, at 11.00 am for the following purposes: Euston Euston Ordinary Business Square To consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions as ordinary resolutions.
To receive and adopt the Financial Statements of the Company Square Warren Street for the year to 30 April 2012 with the Reports of the Directors P and of the Independent Auditors thereon.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to Hotel Russell 30 April 2012.
To re-elect Mr JGD Ferguson as a Director.
To re-elect Ms CC Ferguson as a Director.
To re-elect Mr EM Harley as a Director.
To re-elect Mr DCP McDougall as a Director.
To reappoint  LLP as Independent Charing Cross Road Auditors.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Hotel 9.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Russell, 18 Russell Square, Bloomsbury, London WC1B 5BE on Independent Auditors.
To consider and, if thought t, pass resolution 10 as a special If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, resolution: please call us on 0800 027 0133.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, but without Baillie Gifford may record your call.
prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Company be authorised, in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to make market d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act Company in general meeting, the authority hereby conferred of ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the Company shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting Shares, provided that: of the Company to be held in respect of the financial year ending 30 April 2013, save that the Company may, prior a the maximum aggregate number of Shares hereby to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares authorised to be purchased shall be 38,338,252, being under such authority which will or might be completed approximately 14.99% of the issued share capital on the or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such date on which this resolution is passed: authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be any such contract.
5p exclusive of expenses : c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be By order of the Board paid for a Share shall not be more than the higher of: BAILLIE GIFFORD & CO i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the Managers and Secretaries London Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the 28 June 2012 five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange: and THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 49 High Holborn Oxford Street Theobalds Road t. S Giles Hig Guildford Street Euston Road Bernard Street h Street NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 7.
The return of a completed proxy form or other instrument of proxy will Notes 1.
As a member you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to not prevent you attending the AGM and voting in person if you wish.
exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at the 8.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust AGM.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must Share Plan, Childrens Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford Investment attend the AGM to represent you.
You may appoint more than Trust ISA who wish to vote and or attend the meeting must complete one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights and return the enclosed reply-paid Form of Direction.
You can only appoint a proxy using 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations the procedure set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
2001 and Section 311 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice species that to be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General or any related documents including the circular and proxy form to Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in expressly stated.
the Register of Members of the Company no later than 48 hours 2.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy, excluding non-working days prior to the commencement of the AGM together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is or any adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after signed or a certied copy thereof, must be received by post or during the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of normal business hours only by hand at the Registrars of the Company any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
at Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater 10.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY or www.
co. uk eproxy no under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time of rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, 3.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person the procedures described in the CREST Manual and or by logging has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise on to the website www.
CREST personal it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should 11.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will appointment of proxies in notes 1 and 2 above does not apply to be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
The rights described in those notes can only be 4.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST exercised by shareholders of the Company.
service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST 12.
The members of the Company may require the Company to publish, Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with on its website, without payment a statement which is also passed Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specications, and must contain to the auditors setting out any matter relating to the audit of the the information required for such instruction, as described in the Companys financial statements, including the auditors report and CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the conduct of the audit.
The Company will be required to do so the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction once it has received such requests from either members representing given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company or at least 100 be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrar ID members who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the 3RA50 no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before Company on which there has been paid up an average sum per the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in writing time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the and must state your full name and address and be sent to the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host Company at Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh, from which the Companys registrar is able to retrieve the message EH1 3AN.
by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST 13.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is available from the Companys page of the Managers website at 5.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or www.
voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for 14.
Members have the right to ask questions at the meeting in any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, accordance with Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006. therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
As at 13 June 2012 being the last practicable date prior to the It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored consisted of 255,758,859 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
member, or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 13 June 2012 that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such were 255,758,859 votes.
action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman of the sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to meeting as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and his proxy those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the UK of the CREST system and timings.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
