COMMUNICATING WITH SHAREHOLDERS Communicating with Shareholders Trust Magazine Literature in Alternative Formats Trust is the Baillie Gifford investment trust magazine which is It is possible to provide copies of the literature in alternative formats, published three times a year.
It provides an insight to our investment such as large print or on audio tape.
Please contact the Baillie approach by including interviews with our fund managers, as well Gifford Client Relations Team for more information.
as containing investment trust news, investment features and articles Client Relations Team Contact Details about the trusts managed by Baillie Gifford, including Monks.
Trust You can contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team by plays an important role in helping to explain our products so that telephone, email, fax or post: readers can really understand them.
For a copy of Trust, please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team see contact details Telephone: 0800 027 0133 opposite.
Your call may be recorded for training or monitoring purposes.
An online version of Trust can be found at www.
com Guides to Investment Trusts Fax: 0131 275 3955 Baillie Gifford has produced a number of educational guides on Client Relations Team investment trusts.
These are designed to explain how investment trusts Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited work and to explain the various ways you can invest in them.
If you Calton Square would like copies of any of these guides, please contact the Baillie 1 Greenside Row Gifford Client Relations Team see contact details opposite.
Edinburgh EH1 3AN Monks on the Web Please note that Baillie Gifford is not permitted to give financial Up-to-date information about Monks can be found on the Companys advice.
If you would like advice or if you have any questions page of the Managers website at www.
about the suitability of any of these plans for you, please ask an authorised intermediary.
In the Investment Trust section you will nd full monthly details on Monks, including a monthly commentary, recent portfolio information and performance targets.
You can also nd a brief history of Monks, an explanation of the effects of gearing and a exible performance reporting tool.
Suggestions and Questions Any suggestions on how communications with shareholders can be improved are welcome.
Please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team see contact details opposite and give them your suggestions.
They will also be very happy to answer questions that you may have, either about Monks or the plans described on page 52.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 53 Directors Registered Ofce Registrar Independent Auditors Chairman: Computershare Computershare  LLP JGD Ferguson Investor Services PLC Investor Services PLC Chartered Accountants and 2nd Floor The Pavilions Statutory Auditors CC Ferguson Vintners Place Bridgwater Road Erskine House EM Harley 68 Upper Thames Street Bristol BS99 6ZZ PO Box 90 DCP McDougall London EC4V 3BJ Tel: 0870 707 1170 6873 Queen Street Edinburgh EH2 4NH Company registration No.
236964 Managers and Secretaries Baillie Gifford & Co Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Tel: 0131 275 2000 Website: http: www.
