Glossary of Terms and Definitions Premium B Ordinary Shares B Ordinary shares carry the same rights as the Ordinary The amount by which the market price per share of an shares.
The difference is that B Ordinary shareholders receive investment trust exceeds the net asset value per share.
The their dividends by means of a capitalisation issue as opposed premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the net to a cash dividend.
With effect from the payment of the final asset value per share.
dividend in 2007, the capitalisation issue received by B Ordinary shareholders has been made every time a dividend Prior Charges is paid on the Ordinary shares.
B Ordinary shareholders also The name given to all borrowings including debentures, long have the right to convert their shares into Ordinary shares term loans and short term loans and overdrafts that are to be once a year.
More details regarding this are shown on page used for investment purposes, reciprocal foreign currency 72. loans, currency facilities to the extent that they are drawn down, index-linked securities, and all types of preference or Discount preferred capital and the income shares of split capital trusts, irrespective of the time until repayment.
The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust is lower than the net asset value per share.
The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the Total Assets net asset value per share.
The total assets less current liabilities as shown on the Balance Sheet with the addition of Prior Charges as defined Dividend Cover above.
Revenue return per share divided by dividends per share expressed as a ratio.
Total Return Total Return involves reinvesting the net dividend in the Dividend Entitlements month that the share price goes xd.
The NAV Total Return The Ordinary Shares carry the right to receive the revenue involves investing the same net dividend in the NAV of the profits including accumulated revenue reserves of the Company on the date to which that dividend was earned, eg Company available for distribution as dividend and quarter end, half year or year end date.
determined to be distributed by way of interim and or final dividend and at such times as the Directors may determine.
Voting Rights At the same time as any interim or final dividend is declared In accordance with the Articles of Association of the on the Ordinary Shares the Directors shall resolve to Company, on a show of hands, every member or duly capitalise an aggregate sum which shall be applied in paying appointed proxy present at a general meeting of the up in full at par unissued B Ordinary Shares in the Company Company has one vote: and, on a poll, every member present and that such B Ordinary Shares shall be allotted and in person or by proxy shall have 89 votes for every 25p distributed credited as fully paid up.
nominal amount of Ordinary or B Ordinary shares held.
Net Asset Value Winding-Up Entitlements The value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this On a winding up of the Company, any surplus assets purpose included current and long-term liabilities.
The net available after payment of all debts and satisfaction of all asset value divided by the number of shares in issue produces liabilities of the Company shall be applied in repaying the the net asset value per share.
Ordinary and B Ordinary shareholders the amounts paid up on such shares.
Any surplus shall be divided among the Net Gearing Cash holders of Ordinary and B Ordinary shares pari passu Net gearing cash is calculated by dividing total assets as according to the amount paid up on such shares respectively.
defined below less cash or cash equivalents by shareholders funds expressed as a percentage.
Ongoing Charges Ratio of expenses as percentage of average daily shareholders funds calculated as per the AICs industry standard method 64 Murray International Trust PLC
