Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the one hundred and fifth Annual General Meeting of Murray International Trust PLC registered in Scotland under company number SC006705 will be held at 12.30 pm on 11 April 2013 at the Radisson Blu Hotel, 301 Argyle Street, Glasgow, G2 8DL for the following purposes:- Ordinary Business As ordinary business to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:- 1.
To receive the Directors' Report, the Auditors Report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012.
To approve the Directors' Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2012.
To re-elect Lady Balfour of Burleigh as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr J D Best as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr P W Dunscombe as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr A C Shedden as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Ms M Campbell as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Dr K J Carter as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the auditor.
THAT i a final dividend of 13.5p per Ordinary share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012 be paid on 16 May 2013 to holders of the Ordinary shares in the capital of the Company on the register at close of business on 5 April 2013: ii the Directors be authorised, in substitution for the similar authority granted at last year's Annual General Meeting, to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot B Ordinary shares of 25p up to an aggregate nominal amount of 100,000 pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 provided that this authority shall expire on 10 April 2018.
Special Business As special business to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions in the case of resolution 12 as an Ordinary Resolution and in the case of resolutions 13 and 14 as Special Resolutions.
"THAT the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the ""Act"" to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company ""Rights"" up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,102,599 representing 10% of the total Ordinary and B Ordinary share capital of the Company in issue on 26 February 2013 during the period expiring on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or on 30 June 2014, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed, shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the Directors may allot shares and grant Rights in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired."
"THAT the Directors be and they are hereby empowered, pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Act, to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given in accordance with Section 551 of the Act by Resolution Number 12 as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities:- i during the period expiring on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or on 30 June 2014, whichever is earlier, but so that this power shall, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed, enable the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the expiry of this power and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such power had not expired: Murray International Trust PLC 65 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued ii up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,102,599 representing 10% of the total Ordinary and B Ordinary share capital of the Company in issue on 26 February 2013 : and iii in the circumstances detailed in the section headed ""Issue of Shares"" on pages 26 and 27 of the Annual Report and at a price not less than 0.5% above the net asset value per share from time to time as determined by the Directors and excluding treasury shares."
"This power applies to a sale of treasury shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of Section 560 3 of the Act as if in the first paragraph of this Resolution the words ""pursuant to the authority given in accordance with Section 551 of the Act by Resolution Number 12"" were omitted."
Authority to Make Market Purchases of Shares 14.
THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of fully paid Ordinary shares and B Ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company on such terms and in such manner as the Directors from time to time determine, PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT: i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be an aggregate of 18,466,967 Ordinary shares and 136,216 B Ordinary shares or, if less, the number representing 14.99% of the respective classes of shares in issue excluding shares already held in treasury as at the date of the passing of this Resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 25p: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share shall be the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a share taken from, and calculated by reference to, the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid at the time the purchase is carried out: iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per share as determined by the Directors : v the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or on 30 June 2014, whichever is earlier, unless such authority is previously revoked, varied or renewed prior to such time: vi the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts notwithstanding such expiry above: and vii any shares so purchased shall be cancelled or, if the Directors so determine and subject to the provisions of the Act and any applicable regulations of the United Kingdom Listing Authority, be held or otherwise dealt with as permitted by the Act as treasury shares.
The biographies of the Directors are detailed on pages 23 and 24 of this Annual Report.
40 Princes Street By order of the Board Edinburgh Aberdeen Asset Management PLC EH2 2BY Secretary 8 March 2013 NOTES: i Only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company at 6.00 pm on 9 April 2013 shall be entitled to attend and or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of shareholders to attend and or vote at the adjourned meeting.
If the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period, the time by which a person must be entered on the register of members of the Company in order to have the right to attend and or vote at the 66 Murray International Trust PLC adjourned meeting is 6.00 pm two days excluding non working days prior to the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the Annual General Meeting.
ii Holders of Ordinary shares and B Ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting or any adjournment thereof.
If you wish to attend, there will be a members register to sign on arrival.
iii As at 26 February 2013 being the last practicable day prior to the publication of this Notice, the Company's issued share capital consisted of 123,195,242 Ordinary shares and 908,713 B Ordinary shares, carrying 89 votes each on a poll.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 26 February 2013 are 11,045,251,995. iv A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him or her, provided that if two or more proxies are appointed, each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed with this Notice.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending or voting at the Annual General Meeting, if they so wish.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or another person as your proxy using the Form of Proxy are set out in the note to the Form of Proxy.
If you wish your proxy to speak on your behalf at the Meeting you will need to appoint your own choice of proxy not the Chairman and give your instructions directly to the proxy.
In the event that a Form of Proxy is returned without an indication as to how the proxy shall vote on the resolutions, the proxy will exercise his or her discretion as to whether, and if so how, he or she votes.
v To be valid, the Form of Proxy, together with the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is executed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority must be deposited with the Company's Registrar, for this purpose being PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham BR3 4TU, as soon as possible, but in any event not later than 12.30 pm on 9 April 2013.
If you have any queries relating to the completion of the Form of Proxy, please contact Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p a minute plus network extras, lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30pm Mon-Fri.
Capita Registrars cannot provide advice on the merits of the business to be considered nor give any financial, legal or tax advice.
Alternatively, if the shareholder holds his or her shares in uncertificated form i. e. in CREST they may vote using the CREST System see note xi below.
vi A vote given in accordance with the terms of an instrument of proxy shall be valid notwithstanding the previous death or insanity of the principal or revocation of the proxy or of the authority under which the proxy was executed, or the transfer of the share in respect of which the proxy is given, provided that no intimation in writing of such death, insanity, revocation or transfer as aforesaid shall have been received by the Company at its registered office or the address specified in note v above before the commencement of the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the proxy is used.
vii Where there are joint holders of any share, any one of such persons may vote at any meeting, and if more than one of such persons is present at any meeting personally or by proxy, the vote of the senior holder who tenders the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority will be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members of the Company.
"viii Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a ""Nominated Person"" may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting."
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated Persons should also remember that their main point of contact in terms of their investment in the Company remains the shareholder who nominated the Nominated Person to enjoy information rights or, perhaps the custodian or broker who administers the investment on their behalf.
Nominated Persons should continue to contact that shareholder, custodian or broker and not the Company regarding any changes or queries relating to the Nominated Person's personal details and interests in the Company including any administrative matter.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes iv to vi does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
ix Any corporation which is a shareholder may authorise such person as it thinks fit to act as its representative at this meeting.
Any person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise on behalf of the corporation which he represents the same powers other than to appoint a proxy as that corporation could exercise if it were an individual shareholder provided, in the case of multiple corporate representatives of the same corporate shareholder, they are appointed in respect of different shares owned by the corporate shareholder or, if they are appointed in respect of the same shares, they vote the shares in the same way.
To be able to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting, corporate representatives will be required to produce prior to their entry to the Meeting evidence satisfactory to the Company of their appointment.
Murray International Trust PLC 67 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued x To allow effective constitution of the Annual General Meeting, if it is apparent to the Chairman that no shareholders will be present in person or by proxy, other than by proxy in the Chairman's favour, then the Chairman may appoint a substitute to act as proxy in his stead for any shareholder, provided that such substitute proxy shall vote on the same basis as the Chairman.
CREST Members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual, which is available to download from the Euroclear UK & Ireland Euroclear website www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
"In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST system to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a ""CREST proxy instruction"" must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear's specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual."
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be received by the issuer's agent RA10 by 12.30 pm on 9 April 2013.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications Host from which the issuer's agent is able to retrieve the message.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or CREST sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s takes s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by a particular time.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In any case, a proxy form must be received by the Company's registrars no later than 12.30 pm on 9 April 2013. xii The attendance at the Meeting of shareholders and their proxies and representatives is understood by the Company to confirm their agreement to receive any communications made at the Meeting.
xiii Shareholders are advised that unless otherwise provided, the telephone numbers and website addresses which may be set out in this Notice or the Form of Proxy Letter of Direction are not to be used for the purpose of serving information or documents on the Company including the service of information or documents relating to proceedings at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given discretion as to how the votes the subject of those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the Companys shares already held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary notifications to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
As a result any person holding 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, need not make a separate notification to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
xv In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents of this notice of Meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the Annual General Meeting and, if applicable, any members' statements, members' resolutions or members' matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Company's website www.
xvi Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must cause to be answered at the Annual General Meeting any question relating to the business being dealt with at the Annual General Meeting which is put by a shareholder attending the Meeting, except in certain circumstances, including if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting that the question be answered or if to do so would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
xvii Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by shareholders of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Company's accounts including the auditor's report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid out before the Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006, that the shareholders propose to raise at the Meeting.
The Company may not 68 Murray International Trust PLC require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Company's auditor not later that the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on the website.
xviii Participants in the Aberdeen Share Plan, ISA and or PEP are entitled to vote by completing the enclosed Letter of Direction and returning it to the Company's registrars.
xix Details of resolutions 2 to 14 are shown in the Annual Report as follows:- Resolution 2 Pages 37 and 38 Directors' Remuneration Report Resolution 11 Page 25 Final dividend Resolutions 3 to 8 Page 23 and 24 Directors Resolutions 9 and 10 Page 39 Auditor Resolutions 12 to 14 Pages 25 to 27 Authority to issue and effect buy backs of shares Murray International Trust PLC 69
