FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 AND PERIOD ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 ANNUAL REPORT NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited the Company is a Guernsey Registered Closed-ended Collective Investment Scheme registered and incorporated in Guernsey under The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended, on 10 March 2011, with registration number 53155.
The Companys shares were admitted to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 20 April 2011.
The Initial Public Offering of the Company took place on 15 April 2011, raising gross proceeds of approximately $507.3 million.
The Company raised an additional $187 million by means of a Placing and Offer for Subscription of C Shares.
The Companys investment objective is to provide its shareholders with regular dividends, at levels that are sustainable, whilst preserving the capital value of its investment portfolio, utilising the investment skills of the Investment Manager, Neuberger Berman Europe Limited and the Sub-Investment Manager, Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC.
To pursue its investment objective, the Company will invest mainly in floating rate senior secured loans issued in U. S. Dollars and Sterling by North American and European Union corporations, partnerships and other business issuers.
These loans will, at the time of investment, often be non-investment grade.
For the purposes of efficient portfolio management, the Company has established a wholly-owned Luxembourg incorporated subsidiary, NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 1 S.. r. l. which in turn holds a wholly-owned subsidiary, NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 2 S.. r. l. All references to the Company in this document refer to the Company and its wholly owned Luxembourg subsidiaries.
The Companys share capital is denominated in U. S. Dollars and Sterling and consists of U. S. Dollar Shares and Sterling Shares.
NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been presented on the accrual basis of accounting in conformity with U. S. generally accepted accounting principles US GAAP.
Management believes that the underlying assumptions are appropriate and that the Companys consolidated financial statements therefore present the true and fair financial position and complies with the Guernsey Company Law.
The functional and reporting currency of the Company is the United States Dollar.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2012.
The results of the subsidiary undertakings are included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full.
Use of estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with US GAAP requires that the Directors make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Such estimates and associated assumptions are generally based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, and form the basis of making the judgments about attributing values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may vary from such accounting estimates in amounts that may have a material impact on the financial information of the Company.
