DIRECTORS REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT CONTINUED Explanation of the resolutions continued Resolution 9: Dis-apply pre-emption rights Resolution 9 seeks to allow the Directors to be able to allot and issue Ordinary Shares on a non pre-emptive basis.
The Board feels that this resolution is appropriate and customary for a closed-ended investment fund such as the Company, having regard to guidance from The Association of Investment Companies and the Statement of Principles published by the Pre-emption Group.
This authority will expire upon the date of the next annual general meeting of the Company, unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting.
Recommendation The Board considers that the resolutions relating to the above items are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously recommends to shareholders that they vote in favour of the above resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Independent Auditors Our Auditors,  CI LLP PWC CI LLP, have expressed their willingness to remain in office.
The Directors will place a resolution before the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them as independent auditors for the ensuing year, and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
The Auditors and the Directors have agreed a policy for non-audit services.
All non-audit services require the pre-approval of the audit committee prior to commencing any work.
Fees for non-audit services are tabled annually so that the audit committee can consider the impact on auditors objectivity.
The auditors were remunerated 77,500 for their services rendered in 2012.
Of this amount 6,000 was in relation to the non-audit services performed over the C share conversion.
A further 21,500 was in relation to the procedures performed in respect to the half year review.
Directors Responsibilities Statement The Directors are responsible for preparing financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view, in accordance with applicable Guernsey law and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles US GAAP, of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss for the period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2012 and period ended 31 December 2011 23 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 AND PERIOD ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 ANNUAL REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT CONTINUED Directors Responsibilities Statement continued The Directors of the Company have elected to prepare consolidated financial statements for NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited for the year ended 31 December 2012 as the parent of the Group in accordance with Section 244 5 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
They are not required to prepare individual accounts for NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited in accordance with Section 243 of the Companies Guernsey Law 2008 for the financial period.
So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: The consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in conformity with US GAAP and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company, and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole as required by DTR 4.1.
12R and are in compliance with the requirements set out in The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended: The Annual Report includes a fair review of the information required by DTR 4.1.
11R, which provides an indication of important events and a description of principal risks and uncertainties during the year.
The maintenance and integrity of the NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the consolidated financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of consolidated financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board Sandra Platts Richard Battey Director Director 12 April 2013 12 April 2013 24 NEUBERGER BERMAN
