FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 AND PERIOD ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 ANNUAL REPORT NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited the Company is a Guernsey Registered Closed-ended Collective Investment Scheme registered and incorporated in Guernsey under The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended, on 10 March 2011, with registration number 53155.
The Companys shares were admitted to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 20 April 2011.
The Initial Public Offering of the Company took place on 15 April 2011, raising gross proceeds of approximately $507.3 million.
The Company raised an additional $187 million by means of a Placing and Offer for Subscription of C Shares.
The Companys investment objective is to provide its shareholders with regular dividends, at levels that are sustainable, whilst preserving the capital value of its investment portfolio, utilising the investment skills of the Investment Manager, Neuberger Berman Europe Limited and the Sub-Investment Manager, Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC.
To pursue its investment objective, the Company will invest mainly in floating rate senior secured loans issued in U. S. Dollars and Sterling by North American and European Union corporations, partnerships and other business issuers.
These loans will, at the time of investment, often be non-investment grade.
For the purposes of efficient portfolio management, the Company has established a wholly-owned Luxembourg incorporated subsidiary, NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 1 S.. r. l. which in turn holds a wholly-owned subsidiary, NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 2 S.. r. l. All references to the Company in this document refer to the Company and its wholly owned Luxembourg subsidiaries.
The Companys share capital is denominated in U. S. Dollars and Sterling and consists of U. S. Dollar Shares and Sterling Shares.
NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been presented on the accrual basis of accounting in conformity with U. S. generally accepted accounting principles US GAAP.
Management believes that the underlying assumptions are appropriate and that the Companys consolidated financial statements therefore present the true and fair financial position and complies with the Guernsey Company Law.
The functional and reporting currency of the Company is the United States Dollar.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2012.
The results of the subsidiary undertakings are included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full.
Use of estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with US GAAP requires that the Directors make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Such estimates and associated assumptions are generally based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, and form the basis of making the judgments about attributing values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may vary from such accounting estimates in amounts that may have a material impact on the financial information of the Company.
36 NEUBERGER BERMAN NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Revenue recognition Interest earned on debt instruments is accounted for net of applicable withholding taxes and it is recognised as income over the terms of the loans.
Discounts received or premiums paid in connection with the acquisition of loans are amortised into interest income using the effective interest method over the contractual life of the related loan.
If a loan pays off prior to maturity, the recognition of the fees and costs is accelerated as appropriate.
The Investment Manager raises a provision when the collection of principal or interest is deemed doubtful.
Cash and cash equivalents The Companys cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits and highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than 90 days that are both readily convertible to known amounts or cash and so near maturity that they represent insignificant risk of changes in value.
Valuation of investments The Company carries investments on its Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities at fair value in accordance with US GAAP, with changes in fair value recognised within the Consolidated Statement of Operations in each reporting period.
Quoted investments are valued according to their bid price as at the close of the relevant reporting date.
Investments in private securities are priced at the bid price using a pricing service for private loans.
Asset backed securities are valued according to their bid price.
If a price cannot be ascertained from the above sources, the Company will seek bid prices from third party broker dealer quotes for the investments.
The Investment Manager believes that bid price is the best estimate of fair value and is in line with the valuation policy adopted by the Company.
In cases where no third party price is available, or where the Investment Manager, Neuberger Berman Europe Limited, determines that the provided price is not an accurate representation of the fair value of the investment, the Sub-Investment Manager, Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC, determines the valuation based on the Sub-Investment Managers fair valuation policy.
The overall criterion for fair value is a price at which the majority of the securities involved would change hands in a transaction between a willing buyer and a willing seller, neither being under compulsion to buy or sell and both having the same knowledge of the relevant facts.
Consistent with the above criterion, the following criteria is considered when applicable: Valuation of other securities by the same issuer for which market quotations are available: Reasons for absence of market quotations: The soundness of the security, its interest yield, the date of maturity, the credit standing of the issue and the current general interest rates: Recent sales prices and or bid and asked quotations for the security: Value of similar securities of issuers in the same or similar industries for which market quotations are available: Economic outlook of the industry: Issuers position in the industry: The financial information of the issuer: and The nature and duration of any restriction on disposition of the security.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2012 and period ended 31 December 2011 37 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 AND PERIOD ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 ANNUAL REPORT NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Valuation of investments continued Derivative financial instruments The Company may, from time to time, hold derivative financial instruments for the purposes of hedging foreign currency exposure.
These derivatives are measured at fair value in accordance with US GAAP, with changes in fair value recognised within the Consolidated Statement of Operations in each reporting period.
Depending on the product and the terms of the transaction, the fair value of the over the counter OTC derivative products, such as foreign exchange contracts, can be modelled taking into account the counterparties creditworthiness and using a series of techniques, including simulation models.
Many pricing models do not entail material subjectivity because the methodologies employed do not necessitate significant judgements and the pricing inputs are observed from actively quoted markets.
The forward exchange contracts valued by the Company using pricing models fall into this category and are categorized within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
As shares are denominated in U. S. Dollars and Sterling and investments are denominated in U. S. Dollars, Euro or Sterling, holders of any class of Shares are subject to foreign currency fluctuations between the currency in which such Shares are denominated and the currency of the investments made by the Company.
Consequently, the Investment Manager seeks to engage in currency hedging between the U. S. Dollars and any other currency in which the assets of the Company or a class of Shares is denominated, subject to suitable hedging contracts such as forward currency exchange contracts being available in a timely manner and on terms acceptable to the Investment Manager, in their sole and absolute discretion.
Realised gains and losses on investments All investment transactions are recorded on a trade date basis.
Upon sale or maturity, the difference between the consideration received and the cost of the investment is recognised as a realised gain or loss.
The cost is determined based on the average cost method.
Operating expenses Operating expenses are recognised on an accruals basis.
Operating expenses include amounts directly or indirectly incurred by the Company as part of its operations.
Issuance cost In line with the Prospectus, the expenses incurred for the initial placing were borne by the Company up to a maximum of 2% of the Gross Issue Proceeds.
These expenses include placing fees and commissions: registration, listing and admission fees: the cost of settlement and escrow arrangements: printing, advertising and distribution costs: legal fees, and any other applicable expenses incurred in connection with the offering of shares.
All such expenses are charged to capital, reducing the issue proceeds received.
Currency translation Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than U. S. Dollars are translated into U. S. Dollar equivalents using spot rates as at the period end date.
On initial recognition, a foreign currency transaction is recorded and translates at the spot exchange rate at the transaction date.
Non monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the historic exchange rate.
There were no non-monetary assets held during the period.
Transactions during the period, including purchases and sales of securities, income and expenses, are translated at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
The rates of exchange against U. S. Dollars at 31 December 2012 were 1.625447 USD: 1GBP and 1.38184 USD: 1EUR 31 December 2011: 1.554112 USD: 1GBP and 1.29815 USD: 1 EUR.
