FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 AND PERIOD ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 ANNUAL REPORT NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Resolutions 1 to 7 are proposed as ordinary resolutions.
For each ordinary resolution to be passed, more than half of the total number of votes cast by shareholders being entitled to vote by proxy or in person must be in favour of the resolution.
Resolutions 8 and 9 are proposed as special resolutions.
For a special resolution to be passed, not less than 75 per cent.
of the total number of votes cast by shareholders being entitled to vote by proxy or in person must be in favour of the resolution.
1 Voting record date The Company specifies that only those holders of Ordinary Shares entered on the register of members of the Company as at 18:00 BST on 17 June 2013 or, in the event that this Annual General Meeting is adjourned, on the register of members of the Company 48 hours before the time of any adjourned Annual General Meeting, will be entitled to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of Ordinary Shares registered in their name at that time.
The register of members of the Company at that time is also used for the purposes of calculating how many votes a holder of each Ordinary Share may cast and such Shareholders shall be entitled on a poll to A one vote in respect of each US Dollar Share held by him: and B 1.6 votes in respect of each Sterling Share held by him.
Changes to entries on the register after 18:00 BST on 17 June 2013 or, in the event that this Annual General Meeting is adjourned, in the register of members of the Company 48 hours before the time of any adjourned Annual General Meeting, will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting.
In calculating such 48 hour periods referred to above, no account shall be taken of any part of a day that is not a Business Day.
2 Joint registered holders Where there are joint registered holders of any Ordinary Share, such persons shall not have the right of voting individually in respect of such Ordinary Share but shall elect one of their number to represent them and to vote whether in person or by proxy in their name.
In default of such election the person whose name stands first on the share register of the Company shall alone be entitled to vote.
3 Right to appoint proxies A member of the Company entitled to attend, speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend and to speak and vote instead of him or her in any of the following ways: a by completing and returning the enclosed Form of Proxy: or b through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service if they are users of CREST, including CREST personal members.
Members who have lodged Forms of Proxy, or who have appointed a proxy through CREST, are not thereby prevented from attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the Annual General Meeting to represent you.
If you wish your proxy to speak on your behalf at the Annual General Meeting, you will need to appoint your own choice of proxy not the Chairman Secretary and give your instructions directly to them.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares held by a member.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
Where multiple proxies have been appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares, on a show of hands those proxy holders taken together will collectively have the same number of votes as the Shareholder who appointed them would have on a show of hands if he were present at the meeting.
On a poll, all or any of the rights of the Shareholder may be exercised by one or more duly appointed proxies.
To appoint more than one proxy you may photocopy the Form of Proxy.
Please indicate the proxy holders name and the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy which, in aggregate, should not exceed the number of shares held by you.
Please also indicate if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
4 Proxies rights to vote at the meeting On a vote on a show of hands, each proxy has one vote.
If a proxy is appointed by more than one member, and all such members have instructed the proxy to vote in the same way, the proxy will only be entitled, on a show of hands, to vote for or against as applicable.
If a proxy is appointed by more than one member, but such members have given different voting instructions, the proxy may, on a show of hands, vote both for, and against in order to reflect the different voting instructions.
On a poll all or any of the voting rights of the member may be exercised by one or more duly appointed proxies.
5 Voting by corporate representatives Corporate representatives are entitled to attend, and vote on behalf of the corporate member.
6 Receipt and termination of proxies To be valid a Form of Proxy must be deposited, by hand or by post, at the offices of Capita Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU no later than 10:00 BST on 17 June 2013.
If you prefer, you can return a Form of Proxy from the UK in an envelope addressed to: FREEPOST RSBH-UXKS-LRBC, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 4TU.
The Company will also accept Forms of Proxy deposited in accordance with the Articles of Incorporation.
The Directors may in their absolute discretion elect to treat as valid any instrument appointing a proxy which is deposited later than 10:00 BST on 17 June 2013.
If the Directors so elect, the person named in such instrument of proxy shall be entitled to vote.
A member may terminate a proxys authority at any time before the commencement of the meeting.
In order to revoke a proxy instruction, you will need to inform the Company by sending a signed notice clearly stating your intention to revoke your proxy appointment to Capita Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
In the case of a member which is a company, the revocation notice must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer of the company or a duly appointed attorney for the company.
Any power of attorney or any other authority under which the revocation notice is signed or a duly certified copy of such power or authority must be included with the revocation notice.
The revocation notice must be received by Capita Registrars no later than 10:00 BST on 17 June 2013.
If you attempt to revoke your proxy 50 NEUBERGER BERMAN NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued 6 Receipt and termination of proxies continued appointment but the revocation is received after the time specified then, subject to the paragraph directly below, your proxy appointment will remain valid.
To change your proxy instructions, simply submit a new proxy appointment using the methods set out above.
Note that the cut-off time for receipt of proxy appointments see above also applies in relation to amended instructions: any amended proxy appointment received after the relevant cutoff time will be disregarded.
7 Electronic receipt of proxies CREST members who wish to appoint and or give instructions to a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message the CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds Euroclear specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Capita Registrars CREST participant RA1O by no later than 10:00 BST on 17 June 2012.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which Capita Registrars is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions, it is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s to procure that his or her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as is necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this regard, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a or the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
8 Attendance at the Annual General Meeting Appointment of a proxy does not preclude you from attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person.
If you have appointed a proxy and vote at the Annual General Meeting in person in respect or Ordinary Shares for which you have appointed a proxy, your proxy appointment in respect of those Ordinary Shares will automatically be terminated.
In the case of joint holders, the signature of only one of the joint holders is required on the Form of Proxy.
Where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the more senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint holding the first-named being the more senior.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution.
If no voting indication is given, your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion.
Your proxy will vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit in relation to every other matter which is put before the Annual General Meeting.
9 Questions at the Annual General Meeting The Directors will answer any questions raised at the Annual General Meeting which relate to the business of the meeting, although no answer need by given: a if to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation of the meeting or involve disclosure of confidential information: b if the answer has already been given on the Companys website: or c if it is undesirable in the best interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
10 Website A copy of the notice of the meeting, including these explanatory notes, is included on the Companys website: www.
11 Total voting rights The total number of voting rights in the Company as at 10 April 2013 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this notice is 720,123,286.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2012 and period ended 31 December 2011 51 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 AND PERIOD ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 ANNUAL REPORT NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued 12 Quorum The quorum for the Annual General Meeting will be two holders of Ordinary Shares present and entitled to vote in person or by proxy.
In the event that a quorum is not present for the Annual General Meeting within 30 minutes of the time appointed for the Annual General Meeting, the Annual General Meeting shall stand adjourned for five business days at the same time and place or to such other day and at such other time and place as the board of Directors may determine and no notice of adjournment need be given.
At any such adjourned meeting, those members who are present in person shall be a quorum.
