NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 6 RISKS CONTINUED Credit Risk The Company may invest in a range of bank debt investments, asset backed securities and corporate and other bonds and other credit sensitive securities.
Until such investments are sold or are paid in full at maturity, the Company is exposed to credit risk relating to whether the issuer will meet its obligations when the securities come due.
The cash and other liquid securities held can subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk.
The Investment Manager attempts to mitigate the credit risk that exists with cash deposits and other liquid securities by regularly monitoring the credit ratings of such financial institutions and at times attempting to hold a significant amount of the Companys cash and cash equivalents in U. S. Treasuries or other highly liquid securities.
Credit risk is the risk of losses due to the failure of counterparty to perform according to the terms of a contract.
Since the Company does not clear all of its own securities transactions, it has established accounts with other financial institutions for this purpose.
This can, and often does, result in a concentration of credit risk with one or more of these institutions.
Such risk, however, is partially mitigated by the obligation of certain of these financial institutions to comply with rules and regulations governing financial institutions in countries where they conduct their business activities.
These rules and regulations generally require maintenance of minimum net capital and may also require segregation of customers funds and financial instruments from the holdings of the financial institutions themselves.
The Company actively reviews and attempts to manage exposures to various financial institutions in an attempt to mitigate these risks.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its obligations as and when these fall due.
Liquidity risk is managed by the Investment Manager to ensure that the Company maintains sufficient working capital in cash or near cash form so as to be able to meet the Companys ongoing requirements as these are budgeted for.
Other Risks Legal, tax and regulatory changes could occur during the term of the Company that may adversely affect the Company.
The regulatory environment for alternative investment vehicles is evolving, and changes in the regulation of alternative investment vehicles may adversely affect the value of investments held by the Company or the ability of the Company to pursue its trading strategies.
The effect of any future regulatory change on the Company could be substantial and adverse.
NOTE 7 INCOME TAXES The Company is exempt from Guernsey tax on income derived from non-Guernsey sources.
However, certain of its underlying investments may generate income that is subject to tax in other jurisdictions, principally in the United States.
In accordance with US GAAP, Management is required to determine whether a tax position of the Company is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the applicable taxing authority, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position.
The tax benefit to be recognised is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realised upon ultimate settlement.
fide-recognition of a tax benefit previously recognised could result in the Company recording a tax liability that would reduce net assets.
This policy also provides guidance on thresholds, measurement, fide-recognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition that is intended to provide better financial statement comparability among different entities.
As of 31 December 2012, the Company has recorded no liability for net unrecognised tax benefits relating to uncertain tax positions they have taken or expect to take in future tax returns 31 December 2011: Nil.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2012 and period ended 31 December 2011 43
