"NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED a non-cellular company limited by shares incorporated under the laws of Guernsey with registered number 53155 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING FORM OF PROXY For use at the annual general meeting the ""Annual General Meeting"" of NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited the ""Company"" to be held at BNP Paribas House, 1 St Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 1WA on 19 June 2013 at 10:00 BST."
PLEASE USE BLOCK CAPITALS I We, name in full note 1 of address in full being a member s of NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited, hereby appoint the Chairman of the Annual General Meeting or the Secretary or note 2 as my our proxy to vote for me us on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company, to be held at BNP Paribas House, 1 St Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 1WA on 19 June 2013 at 10:00 BST and at any adjournment thereof and to vote on the following resolutions as directed below.
Please tick here you are appointing more than one proxy.
Number of Ordinary Shares proxy appointed over.
For the appointment of more than one proxy, see note 3.
Please indicate with an X note 4 in the appropriate spaces below how you wish your votes to be cast.
If no indications are given, your proxy will vote for or against each resolution or abstain from voting as he thinks fit.
Ordinary Resolutions For Against Withheld 1.
To receive and consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012, together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon 2.
To receive and ratify the Remuneration report in the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 3.
To re-elect Mr William Frewen as a Director of the Company 4.
To re-elect Mr Richard Battey as a Director of the Company 5.
To re-elect MrsSandra Platts as a Director of the Company 6.
To re-appoint  CI LLP as independent auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company 7.
To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration Special Resolutions 8.
To authorise the Company to make market acquisitions of its own ordinary shares 9.
To dis-apply pre-emption rights Signed: Date: ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2012 and period ended 31 December 2011 53 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 AND PERIOD ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 ANNUAL REPORT Notes: 1.
In the case of a joint holding the signature of any holder is sufficient but the vote of the senior holder who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion of the other joint holders: for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members.
If you wish to appoint a proxy other than the Chairman Secretary you should delete the words the Chairman of the Annual General Meeting or Secretary, insert the name and address of your appointee in the space provided and initial the amendment.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares held by a member.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
Where multiple proxies have been appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares, on a show of hands those proxy holders taken together will collectively have the same number of votes as the Shareholder who appointed them would have on a show of hands if he were present at the meeting.
On a poll, all or any of the rights of the Shareholder may be exercised by one or more duly appointed proxies.
To appoint more than one proxy you may photocopy the Form of Proxy.
Please indicate the proxy holders name and the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy which, in aggregate, should not exceed the number of shares held by you.
Please also indicate if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
Please indicate by marking X in the appropriate space how you wish your votes to be cast.
Unless so instructed by you, the proxy will vote for or against each resolution or abstain from voting as he she thinks fit.
The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in writing or if the appointor is a corporation either under the common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney so authorised and need not be witnessed.
Shares held in uncertificated form i. e. in CREST may be voted through the CREST Proxy Voting Service in accordance with the procedures set out in the CREST manual.
Upon completion please return this Form of Proxy to the following address to arrive no later than 48 hours before the scheduled start of the Annual General Meeting:CAPITA REGISTRARS, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 4TU.
If you prefer, you can return this Form of Proxy from the UK in an envelope addressed to: FREEPOST RSBH-UXKS-LRBC, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 4TU.
