DIRECTORS REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT CONTINUED Corporate Governance Statement continued d Internal controls Communications with Shareholders continued The Board believes that the Annual General Meeting provides an appropriate forum for investors to communicate with the Board, and encourages participation.
The Annual General Meeting will be attended by the Directors.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chairman of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Management Engagement Committee and the Remuneration and Nomination Committee at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of proxy votes received in respect of each resolution will be made available to shareholders at the meeting and will be posted on the Companys website following the meeting.
The Annual and Interim Reports, the Interim Management Statements and a monthly fact sheet are available to all shareholders.
The Board considers the format of the Annual and Interim Reports so as to ensure they are useful to all shareholders and others taking an interest in the Company.
In accordance with best practice, the Annual Report, including the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
2013 Annual General Meeting AGM The following information is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own independent financial advice from a stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant, or other financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in the Company, please send this document, together with any accompanying documents, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
However, such documents should not be distributed, forwarded or transmitted in or into the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or into any other jurisdiction if to do so would constitute a violation of applicable laws and regulations in such other jurisdiction.
The AGM will be held in Guernsey on 19 June 2013 at 10:15 GMT.
The notice for the Annual General Meeting sets out the ordinary and special resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
Explanation of the resolutions Ordinary Resolutions Resolution 1: Annual Report and Financial Statements The Directors are required to present to the meeting the Annual Report and Financial Statements and the Directors Report and Auditors Report in respect of the financial year.
Shareholders will be given an opportunity at the meeting to ask questions on these items before being invited to receive and consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Resolution 2: Remuneration report Shareholders are requested to ratify the Directors Report on Remuneration, which is set out on page 25 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2012 and period ended 31 December 2011 21
