Appendices to the Notes to the Financial Statements Appendix 1 Principal Subsidiary Undertakings The Companys principal subsidiaries as at the Balance Sheet date are set out below.
A full list of subsidiaries can be found on the Annual Return.
The Company holds 100% of the voting rights and ordinary shares of the following Companies: Principal Country of Country of activity incorporation operation Direct holdings Capricorn Oil Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland Cairn UK Holdings Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland Indirect holdings Capricorn Oil Limited Group Capricorn Energy Limited Holding Company Scotland Scotland Cairn Energy Dhangari Limited Exploration Scotland Nepal Cairn Energy Karnali Limited Exploration Scotland Nepal Cairn Energy Lumbini Limited Exploration Scotland Nepal Cairn Energy Malangawa Limited Exploration Scotland Nepal Cairn Energy Birganj Limited Exploration Scotland Nepal Capricorn Albania Limited Exploration Scotland Albania Capricorn Spain Limited Exploration Scotland Spain Capricorn Greenland Exploration 1 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland Capricorn Greenland Exploration 2 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland Capricorn Greenland Exploration 3 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland Capricorn Greenland Exploration 4 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland Capricorn Greenland Exploration 5 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland Capricorn Greenland Exploration 6 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland Capricorn Greenland Exploration 7 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland Capricorn Greenland Exploration 8 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland Capricorn Greenland Exploration 9 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland Capricorn Greenland Exploration 10 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland Capricorn Atammik Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland Capricorn Lady Franklin Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland Capricorn Exploration and Development Company Limited Exploration Scotland Morocco Nautical Petroleum Limited Exploration England UK Alba Resources Limited Exploration, development and production Scotland UK Mountwest 560 Limited Exploration, development and production Scotland UK Nautical Petroleum AG Exploration, development and production Switzerland UK Agora Oil & Gas AS Exploration Norway Norway Agora Oil and Gas UK Limited Exploration Scotland UK Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 125 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Appendices to the Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Appendix 2 Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies Group and Company The main risks arising from the Companys and the Groups financial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and market risk arising from equity price fluctuations.
The Board of Cairn Energy PLC reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and these are summarised below.
The Groups treasury functions are responsible for managing these risks, in accordance with the policies set by the Board.
Management of these risks is carried out by monitoring of cash flows, investment and funding requirements using a variety of techniques.
These potential exposures are managed whilst ensuring that the Company and the Group have adequate liquidity at all times in order to meet their immediate cash requirements.
There are no significant concentrations of risks unless otherwise stated.
The primary financial instruments comprise bank loans, cash, short and medium-term deposits, certificates of deposit, money market liquidity, listed equity shares, intra-group loans, forward contracts, currency and interest rate swaps, options, and other receivables and financial liabilities held at amortised cost.
The Groups strategy has been to finance its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
Other alternatives such as equity and other forms of non investment-grade debt finance are reviewed by the Board, when appropriate.
Liquidity risk The Group currently has surplus cash which it has placed in a combination of money market liquidity funds and term deposits with a number of international and UK financial institutions, ensuring sufficient liquidity to enable the Group to meet its short medium-term expenditure requirements.
TheGroup is conscious of the current environment and constantly monitors counterparty risk.
Policies are in place to limit counterparty exposure and maturity.
The Group monitors counterparties using published ratings and other measures.
Repayment of principal is the overriding priority and this is achieved by diversification and shorter maturities to provide flexibility.
At the year end the Group has a NOK 500m Exploration Finance Facility with SEB Stockholms Enskilda Bank based on floating NIBOR Norwegian InterBank Offered Rate rates.
Cairn entered into this facility through the acquisition of Agora.
Under the facility Agora can draw 95% of the tax refund due on Norwegian exploration expenditure in the year.
At the year end $29.6m NOK 165.0m was drawn under this facility.
At December 2011 Cairn Energy PLC Group had a total of $35m of facilities in place to cover the issue of performance guarantees.
On 27th November 2012 a new facility of US$30m was signed, replacing an existing US$10m facility, which increased the total facilities available to $55m.
Fixed rates of bank commission and chargesapplied to these.
$22.6m was utilised as at 31 December 2012.
On 15 December 2010 Cairn Energy PLC entered into a stand-by secured revolving credit facility of $900m to extend the working capital available, to enable commitments to be made for the 2011 Greenland drilling campaign and for other general corporate purposes.
The facility was provided by Standard Chartered Bank, Bank of Scotland Plc, Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, HSBC Bank PLC and Socit Gnrale.
Security was in the form of a pledge over a number of shares in Cairn UK Holdings Limited.
Interest was charged at floating rates determined by LIBOR plus an applicable margin.
The facility was cancelled and repaid in full on 1 August 2011.
Interest rate risk Surplus funds are placed on short medium-term deposits at floating rates.
It is Cairns policy to invest with banks or other financial institutions that firstof all offer what is perceived as the greatest security and, second, the most competitive interest rate.
Managing counterparty risk is considered thepriority.
Short medium-term borrowing arrangements are generally entered into at floating rates.
From time to time the Group may opt to manage a proportion of the interest costs by using derivative financial instruments like interest rate swaps.
At this time, however, there are no such instruments 2011: none.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Groups profit before tax to a change in interest rates through the impact on floating rate borrowings and investments.
2012 2011 Effect on Effect on profit before profit before tax tax $m $m Continuing operations 50 point increase in interest rates 12.8 6.8 50 point decrease in interest rates 3.8 2.1 126 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Appendices to the Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Appendix 2 Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies Continued Foreign currency risk Cairn manages exposures that arise from non-functional currency receipts and payments by matching receipts and payments in the same currency and actively managing the residual net position.
Generally the exposure has been limited given that receipts and payments have mostly been in US dollars and the functional currency of most companies in the Group is US dollars.
The Group also aims where possible to hold surplus cash, debt and working capital balances in functional currency which in most cases is US dollars, thereby matching the reporting currency and functional currency of most companies in the Group.
This minimises the impact of foreign exchange movements on the Groups Balance Sheet.
Where residual net exposures do exist and they are considered significant the Company and Group may from time to time, opt to use derivative financialinstruments to minimise its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rate.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to movements in the $:GBP exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, on the Groups andthe Companys monetary assets and liabilities.
The Groups and the Companys exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is notmaterial.
2012 2011 Effect on Effect on profit before Effect on profit before Effect on tax Equity tax Equity Group $m $m $m $m Continuing operations 10% increase in Sterling to $ 112.1 74.6 424.0 345.1 10% decrease in Sterling to $ 112.1 74.6 424.0 345.1 2012 2011 Effect on Effect on profit before Effect on profit before Effect on tax Equity tax Equity Company $m $m $m $m Continuing operations 10% increase in Sterling to $ 91.0 91.0 350.1 350.1 10% decrease in Sterling to $ 91.0 91.0 350.1 350.1 During 2011, the Company changed its functional currency from Sterling to US Dollars.
At the end of 2011 the Company held approximately 2.25 billion of cash in anticipation of a cash return to shareholders.
Following the completion of this return in the first half of 2012 both the Groups and Companys exposure to movements in the Sterling to $ exchange rate reduces significantly.
Credit risk Investment credit risk for investments with banks and other financial institutions is managed by the Group Treasury function in accordance with the Board approved policies of Cairn Energy PLC.
Investments of surplus funds are only made with approved counterparties who meet the appropriate rating and or other criteria, and are only made within approved limits.
The Board continually re-assesses the Groups policy and updates as required.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty failure.
Cairn Energy PLC Group limits the placing of deposits, certificates of deposit and other investments to banks or financial institutions that have at least2Aor above ratings from Moodys, Standard & Poors or Fitch unless a Sovereign Guarantee is available from an AAA rated Government.
The counterparty limits vary between $50m and $200m depending on the ratings of the counterparty.
During the period in 2011, following the receipt of the proceeds of the 30% tranche of the 40% sale of Cairn India Limited, until the completion of the return of cash to Shareholders, these limits were increased to $100m $400m per counterparty.
No investments are placed with any counterparty with a 5 year CDS exceeding 250 bps.
Investments in money market liquidity funds are only made with AAA rated liquidity funds and the maximum holding in any single fund is 5% of total investments.
At the year end the Group does not have any significant concentrations of bad debt risk other than that disclosed in section 3.4.
As at 31 December 2012 the Group had investments with 32 counterparties 2011: 32 to ensure no concentration of counterparty investment risk.
The maturity of these investments ranged from instant access to 3 months.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by the carrying value as at the Balance Sheet date.
Market Risk: Equity Price Risk The Group is now exposed to equity price risks arising from the listed equity investments it holds in Cairn India.
Equity investments are held for strategic rather than trading purposes and the Group does not actively trade these investments, which are classified as available-for-sale.
Movements in the fair value during the year are recognised directly in equity and are disclosed in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The cumulative gain or loss that arises on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets is recycled through the Income Statement.
Further details on the impact of equity price movements on the fair value of the available-for-sale financial assets are included in Section 3.1.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 127 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Appendices to the Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Appendix 3 Share-based Payments The following assumptions and inputs apply to the share plans detailed in Section 6.3: Lapse due Risk-free rate to withdrawals Scheme name Vesting Volatility per annum per annum 2010 Share Incentive Plan 85.85% 86.00% 52% n a 5% 2009 Approved and Unapproved Plans 43.12% 47.00% 52% 1.8% 4.4% 5% 2009 LTIP 35.09% 46.64% 52% n a 2009 Replacement LTIP 118.49% 124.90% 52% Cairn India Units 31.94% 32.97% 41% 42% 4.7% 4.9% 2012 Share awards 100% 52% 5% The following assumptions on employee exercise trigger points are applicable to all share option plans described in this note: 25% 50% 75% 100% 125% profit profit profit profit profit No trigger Percentage of employees exercising options 15% 25% 25% 15% 10% 10% For details on the vesting conditions attached to the LTIPs refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 83.
Cairn Energy PLC Group and Company No difference in the schemes below apply for Group and Company other than charges for these schemes that are made to Cairn India companies where their staff are members of these schemes.
Cairn Energy PLC share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the year, subject to the normal employee dealing bans imposed at certain times by the Company.
The weighted average share price during the year was 2.987 2011: 3.679.
The Cairn Energy PLC share options have been valued using a binomial model.
The main inputs to the model include the number of options, share price, leaver rate, trigger points, discount rate and volatility.
h Leaver rate assumptions are based on past history of employees leaving the Company prior to options vesting and are revised to equal the number of options that ultimately vest.
h Trigger points are the profit points at which the relevant percentage of employees are assumed to exercise their options.
h The risk-free rate is based on the yield on a zero coupon Government bond with a term equal to the expected term on the option being valued.
h Volatility was determined as the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the shares of a peer group of similar companies selected from the FTSE, as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 83, over a ten year period to the dateof award.
128 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Appendices to the Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Appendix 4 Auditors Remuneration a Auditors remuneration 2012 2011 $000 $000 Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the Groups annual accounts 254 224 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 24 26 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services: for the audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 301 734 other services pursuant to legislation 40 102 other services relating to taxation consultancy 33 74 services relating to corporate finance transactions 223 all other services 70 64 The Group has a policy in place for the award of non-audit work to the auditors which, in certain circumstances, requires Audit Committee approval.
Other advisors comprise accountancy firms other than the Groups auditor.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 129
