Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Section 1 Basis of Preparation This section contains the Groups significant accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole.
Significant accounting policies specific to one note are included with that note.
Accounting policies determined non-significant are not included in these financial statements.
There have been no changes to the Groups accounting policies that are no longer disclosed in the financial statements.
This section also includes new EU endorsed accounting standards, amendments and interpretations and their expected impact, if any, on the performance of the Group.
1.1 Significant Accounting Policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Cairn Energy PLC Cairn or the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 18 March 2013.
Cairn is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded.
The registered office is located at 50 Lothian Road, Edinburgh, Scotland.
Cairn prepares its accounts on a historical cost basis.
Where there are assets and liabilities calculated on a different basis, this fact is disclosed in the relevant accounting policy.
b Accounting standards Cairn prepares its accounts in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The Groups financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB as they apply to accounting periods ended 31 December 2012.
For the year ending 31 December 2012, Cairn has adopted the following amendments to standards which resulted through the IASBs annual Improvements to IFRS.
There was no impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Company as a result of these changes: h IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures Amendment Transfers of Financial Assets: and h IAS 12 Income Taxes Amendment Deferred Taxes: Recovery of underlying assets The following new standards and interpretations, which are not yet effective have been issued by the IASB.
The Directors are in the process of assessing the impact of IFRS 10 and 11 in relation to the Groups accounting policies for its share of the assets and liabilities of Joint Ventures.
None of the remaining standards are expected to materially impact on the Companys financial position or performance: h IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures Amendment Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities effective 1 January 2013 h IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: effective 1 January 2015 h IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: effective 1 January 2013 h IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: effective 1 January 2013 h IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities: effective 1 January 2013 h IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: effective 1 January 2013 h IAS 1 Presentation of items in Other Comprehensive Income: effective 1 July 2012 h IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors: effective 1 January 2013 h IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised : effective 1 January 2013 h IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements: effective 1 January 2013 h IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures: effective 1 January 2013 h IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation: effective 1 January 2014 and h Improvements to IFRSs 2009-2011 May 2012 effective 1 January 2013 EU effective 1 January 2013 c Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts include the results of Cairn Energy PLC and its subsidiary undertakings to the Balance Sheet date.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the Income Statement and Statement of Cash Flows from the effective date of acquisition.
Cairn allocates the purchase consideration of any acquisition to assets and liabilities on the basis of fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the assets and liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Any goodwill arising is recognised as an asset and is subject to annual review for impairment.
Goodwill is written off where circumstances indicate that the value of the underlying cash generating unit including the asset may no longer support the carrying value of goodwill.
Any such impairment loss arising is recognised in the Income Statement for the year.
Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods.
Cairn has used the exemption granted under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 that allows for the non-disclosure of the Income Statement of the parent company.
The profit attributable to the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012 was $1,291.3m 2011: profit of $4,172.7m.
92 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Section 1 Basis of Preparation Continued 1.1 Significant Accounting Policies Continued d Joint Ventures Cairn participates in several unincorporated Joint Ventures which involve the joint control of assets used in the Groups oil and gas exploration and producing activities.
Cairn accounts for its share of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of Joint Ventures in which the Group holds an interest, classified in the appropriate Balance Sheet and Income Statement headings.
Cairns principal licence interests are jointly controlled assets.
A list of Cairns interests in unincorporated Joint Ventures is given on pages 130 to 131. e Foreign currencies These accounts continue to be presented in US dollars $, the functional currency of most companies in the Group.
In the accounts of individual Group companies, Cairn translates foreign currency transactions into the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing at the transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing at the Balance Sheet date.
Exchange differences arising are taken to the Income Statement except for those incurred on borrowings specifically allocable to development projects, which are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
The Group maintains the accounts of the parent and subsidiary undertakings in their functional currency.
Where applicable, the Group translates parent and subsidiary accounts into the presentation currency, $, using the closing rate method for assets and liabilities which are translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the Balance Sheet date and rates at the date of transactions for Income Statement accounts.
Cairn takes exchange differences arising on the translation of net assets of Group companies whose functional currency is non $ directly to reserves.
