Long-term savings The Long-Term Savings LTS division offers life assurance, pensions and investment products and operates in southern Africa, Europe, Asia and Latin America.
Through life assurance, pensions and investment products LTS provides customers with: Key financial highlights adjusted operating profit pre-tax Advice financial planning and investment 800m Savings solutions for shorter-term goals 2011: 793m Funds under management Investments for long-term goals 121.8bn including retirement 2011: 108.5bn number of employees Decumulation post-retirement Protection life assurance and 21,789 2011: 22,851 personal lines.
We operate in two main business units, serving their Long-term own distinct territories.
Emerging Markets serves savings South Africa, sub-Saharan Africa and new emerging markets.
Old Mutual Wealth offers saving and investment solutions to affluent clients in Europe and selected international markets.
old mutual emerging Wealth markets 30 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 How we have performed How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business Further development of our LTS business strategy based Operational oversight on customers and core competencies Under the direction of Paul Hanratty and his Executive Committee the LTS businesses have focused on the Defining and implementing elements that create a tangible changes needed to achieve the Groups vision of customer-focused culture such as the creation of becoming our customers most trusted partner passionate feedback surveys in core business territories, customer about helping them achieve their lifetime financial goals.
experience principles, training, communications and Delivering these changes required actions in four key areas: codifying customer-focused leadership behaviours Agreement and plan for implementation and roll-out of a Customer services and administration single Old Mutual brand, customer value propositions and Strategic marketing and brand segmentation, customer and intermediary research, as well Information technology as brand governance Product and proposition.
Creating and developing a digital strategy, including infrastructure and capability for our e-commerce Customer services and administration proposition across LTS, as well as the appointment of Rose Keanly now has responsibility for customer service and digital strategy heads in core territories administration for all the LTS businesses.
Progress has been Defining and creating an in-house Customer Relationship made against the following objectives: Management CRM system, with the infrastructure and Improve customers service experience throughout their capability to leverage our CRM capability across LTS.
relationships with LTS through shared training, insight We have already rolled it out to the wider southern and IT improvements: hemisphere business unit.
Progress to date includes aligning the activities of the information technology Customer Services and Operational departments with Led by Richard Boynett, the information technology team those of other LTS departments, and contributing developed ways to offer customers, intermediaries and significantly to the Group-wide focus on customer centricity.
employees a more efficient and effective digital experience.
Going forward we plan further representation at Group Services are now more responsive, cost-effective, and well leadership forums and deeper engagement in creating governed without sacrificing the speed-to-market and compelling and workable customer and intermediary innovation needed in our local markets.
The teams value propositions throughout the business.
priorities were: Drive down unit costs: For 2012 the focus was on training the businesses in LEAN Driving common infrastructure and resource sharing process methodology and how to drive efficiencies by across all LTS territories identifying the essential and high-value elements of Delivering an improved customer and processes.
LEAN experts are now established in all core intermediary experience servicing territories and are monitoring and developing Developing innovation and idea sharing between our operational effectiveness and streamlining without core territories compromising the customer experience.
Further leveraging South Africa as our IT hub, sharing Reduce operational risks: expertise and systems across LTS to enable rapid market In 2012 we focused on the Treating Customers Fairly entry and development of online capabilities.
regulatory initiative, introducing business unit Committees for Customer Affairs to ensure that products and services Over the medium term the team will focus on equipping local are consistently serving our clients best interests.
We have business unit IT departments to integrate the central work already introduced new feedback mechanisms to capture completed to date and carry it forward into business as usual.
the drivers of satisfaction and dissatisfaction so we can Product and proposition prioritise improvements and refine operational procedures.
The product and proposition team made substantial Enable faster entry into new markets, and launch of new progress in: products into existing markets, by maximising re-use: We have built the business in a box concept, defining the Supporting the Old Mutual Wealth product expansion essentials that Old Mutual can take to a new territory while and improvement announced in November 2012 integrating with the local culture.
We have already begun Sharing customer and intermediary research and insight expansion into new African countries, integrating new such as Customer Value Propositions which matches the IT capabilities with our current suite to offer a more most appropriate product and service solutions for our bespoke offering.
target customers, marketing and product collaboration, Leverage our South African capability and other areas business unit governance and global regulatory knowledge of expertise more actively across the whole of LTS: Leading the product risk management function to ensure In 2012 we undertook work to evaluate the viability of a new rigorous pricing and asset liability management, improved product based on a South African concept and tailored for economic capital efficiency in product design, and better the UK market: plans are now underway to progress this leverage of our global balance sheet to local advantage.
We are also planning to deploy South African administration to support our Latin American operations.
For 2013, our businesses and streamlined central resources will manage a period of significant change particularly in strategic marketing and brand the European Old Mutual Wealth businesses, but also in Carlton Hood leads our centralised strategic marketing team.
Old Mutual Emerging Markets as it executes its African The team is responsible for co-ordinating five initiatives growth strategy and further improves operational efficiency across LTS, which together made up the core of our customer in South Africa.
strategy in 2012: 31 Long-term savings continued m 2012 2011 2011 Constant 1 Long-term savings reported currency % change Reported % change AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 800 733 9% 793 1% NCCF bn 3.2 3.2 3.2 FUM bn 121.8 104.1 17% 108.5 12% Life assurance sales APE 1,133 1,152 2 % 1,207 6 % PVNBP 8,665 8,767 1 % 9,113 5 % 2,3 Non-covered sales 14,549 11,450 27% 12,248 19% Value of new business 197 167 18% 177 11% APE margin 18% 15% PVNBP margin 2.3% 1.9% Operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax 336 552 39 % Adjusted MCEV covered business 5,740 5,713 4 Return on embedded value 5.9% 9.3% 4 VNB experience variance MCEV covered business 2.6% 5.1% m 2012 2011 2011 Constant emerging markets reported currency % change Reported % change AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 605 510 19% 570 6% NCCF bn 1.2 0.4 200% 0.4 200% FUM bn 52.6 45.5 16% 49.9 5% 5 Life assurance sales APE 523 469 12% 524 5,6 PVNBP 3,331 2,949 13% 3,295 1% 2 Non-covered sales 8,937 6,761 32% 7,559 18% 5,6 Value of new business 135 89 52% 99 36% 6 APE margin 27% 20% 6 PVNBP margin 4.1% 3.0% Operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax 328 349 6 % 6 Adjusted MCEV covered business 3,296 3,167 4% 4,6, 7 Return on embedded value 10.7% 11.9% 4,6, 7 VNB experience variance MCEV covered business 3.5% 6.8% m 2012 2011 2011 Constant old mutual Wealth reported currency % change Reported % change AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 195 223 13 % 223 13 % NCCF bn 2.0 2.8 29 % 2.8 29 % FUM bn 69.2 58.6 18% 58.6 18% Life assurance sales APE 610 683 11 % 683 11 % PVNBP 5,334 5,818 8 % 5,818 8 % 2,3 Non-covered sales 5,612 4,689 20% 4,689 20% Value of new business 62 78 21 % 78 21 % APE margin 10% 11% PVNBP margin 1.2% 1.3% Operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax 8 203 96 % Adjusted MCEV covered business 2,444 2,546 4 Return on embedded value 0.3% 7.8% 4 VNB experience variance MCEV covered business 1.7% 4.0% 1 The comparative period has been restated to reflect Nordic as discontinued.
2 Includes unit trust, mutual fund and other sales.
3 OMAM UK was transferred to Old Mutual Wealth from USAM at the beginning of Q2 2012.
270 million of OMAM UK non-covered sales from Q1 2012 and 1,096 million from 2011 are therefore excluded from non-covered sales.
4 RoEV and VNB experience variance MCEV covered business were calculated in local currency, except for LTS where they were calculated on a reporting currency basis.
5 Premiums in respect of MFC Credit Life sales have been included in APE sales, PVNBP and VNB for the first time in 2012.
6 PVNBP, value of new business APE margin and PVNBP margin for Emerging Markets represent South Africa and Namibia only, they exclude Zimbabwe, Kenya, Malawi and Swaziland.
7 The return on embedded value and VNB experience variance MCEV metrics for the comparative period have not been restated to include Zimbabwe, Kenya, Malawi and Swaziland in the opening MCEV.
32 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 How we have performed How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business On a reported basis the Emerging Markets business accounts Net client cash flow and gross inflows for 76% of LTS IFRS AOP earnings, 43% of LTS FUM and 45% Overall LTS NCCF was flat at 3.2 billion, with increased of LTS APE sales.
NCCF in Emerging Markets offset by reduced inflows to Old Mutual Wealth.
The following analysis is presented on a constant currency basis.
Gross inflows for Emerging Markets grew 25% to 11.7 IFRS AOP results billion, with our sales mix continuing to highlight the growing Overall LTS AOP increased 9% to 800 million.
shift in South Africa from traditional life products to modern investment products including unit trusts and mutual funds.
Emerging Markets AOP pre-tax increased by 19% to 605 million, with strong growth in profits in South Africa and Rest Emerging Markets NCCF improved by 0.8 billion to 1.2 of Africa.
billion, driven mainly by large deals secured by the OMIG SA boutiques and the Latin American businesses, strong sales in Strong profits in the South African retail businesses were Old Mutual Unit Trusts OMUT and Rest of Africa, and due to good investment returns on policyholder funds and improved single premium sales in Corporate.
An expected positive mortality and disability experience.
Successful outflow of 1.0 billion low-margin equity assets from the maintenance expense management has resulted in positive South African Public Investment Corporation PIC took place assumption changes.
There was reduced new business in July 2012 2011: 0.2 billion outflow from PIC.
Only a small strain, given improved product mix and pricing and a amount of assets managed for the PIC in traditional asset release of some contingency reserves in respect of a classes remain.
Excluding the PIC outflows, NCCF improved legacy structured product.
The 130 bps reduction in the by 1.6 billion versus 2011 and OMIG SA would have benchmark 10 year government bond yield increased the reflected positive NCCF of 0.3 billion in 2012. value placed on certain policyholder liabilities.
The impact in H2 2012 was less than the impact in H1 2012, as a result Gross inflows in Old Mutual Wealth were 11.6 billion of management actions, including the implementation of 2011: 11.0 billion, led by UK Platform and Old Mutual some partial hedging.
The pre-tax net effect for 2012 was Global Investment OMGI inflows.
OMAM UK was a charge of R374 million.
Persistency for 2012 was in line transferred to Old Mutual Wealth at the beginning of with the revised assumptions set in December 2011 Q2 2012.
Including the gross sales of OMAM UK for Corporate business profits in South Africa returned to the whole of 2012 and 2011, gross sales were down 2% normalised levels after the strengthening of the Investment to 11.9 billion 2011: 12.1 billion.
Guarantee Reserve in 2011 Old Mutual Wealth NCCF decreased to 2.0 billion from Rest of Africa profits improved mainly within Namibia and 2.8 billion in 2011, given lower sales volumes, the closure of Zimbabwe due to favourable experience variances, the Austrian, German and Swiss books to new business and assumption changes and foreign exchange gains modest change in redemptions and transfers from the UK OMIG SA profits increased, with improved management Platform in the run-up to RDR.
We continued to see strong and performance fees, notwithstanding the exceptional inflows reflecting the momentum in our proposition as we private equity gain in 2011 attract new customers and further enhance features and functionality.
This is particularly encouraging as it comes This was partly offset by increased central and despite a backdrop of challenging markets, where advisers administration expenses, due to higher share-based have remained focused on ensuring readiness for the RDR.
payment and incentive provisions, increased investment UK Platform NCCF was 2.2 billion 2011: 3.3 billion.
in technology and new business development.
Net outflows from the UK Heritage business reduced by 23%.
Old Mutual Wealth AOP was 195 million after a net 15 million restructuring charge during the year.
The prior years Funds under management AOP of 223 million included 32 million of policyholder tax Overall LTS FUM rose 17% to 121.8 billion, due to higher smoothing.
OMAM UK AOP was 2 million in 2011 meaning equity markets and strong net client cash inflows.
Emerging that the pro-forma comparable total Old Mutual Wealth Markets FUM increased by 16% to 52.6 billion.
Old Mutual AOP was 225 million, including policyholder tax smoothing.
Wealth FUM increased by 18% to 69.2 billion.
The sale of the The UK Platform generated a profit in 2012.
In Q3 2012 we Finnish business reduced FUM by 1.1 billion.
completed the sale of the Finnish business, which generated UK Platform FUM increased to 22.6 billion 2011: 12 million of post-tax profits in 2012 and 12 million for the 18.8 billion, further cementing Old Mutual Wealths position whole of 2011. as one of the largest participants in this retail market.
Operating conditions have been difficult: world equity markets OMGI delivered solid investment performance, with 80% of have remained volatile and economic conditions in Europe OMGI funds above median over three years AUM weighted have continued to be challenging, with much uncertainty over and 33% of funds in the top decile.
Six of its 40 investment the euro during the year.
This uncertainty continues to play a professionals were named in the CityWire Global Top 1000 role in investor decisions, dampening demand for risk-based Fund Managers for 2012. investments and driving a continued preference for more defensive asset allocations.
Sales margins improved in H2 2012 as clients started to return to equities.
The unification of SIG and OMAM UK has given us improved operational scale and renewed commercial focus.
At the year-end the combined business reported an operating margin of 14% excluding transition costs or 5% including these costs.
The post-merger operating margin on a run-rate basis was 18%, excluding transition costs.
33 Long-term savings continued Sales in Asia improved by 24% leading to market share gains, Life sales summary following increased single premium sales through the bank Overall LTS APE sales decreased by 2% to 1,133 million.
channel in our Chinese joint venture, Old Mutual-Guodian, In Emerging Markets, life APE sales increased by 12% to 523 and strong support from the Kotak Bank channel in India.
million, with continued momentum in MFC and a good Sales in Asia will be reclassified as life sales from Q1 2013. performance in Corporate.
Old Mutual Wealth non-covered sales increased by 20% to South African regular premium sales increased by 15%, with 5,612 million, primarily due to the inclusion of the nonMFC sales up by 21% as a result of a larger sales force, which covered sales from OMAM UK for the first time in 2012. grew by 12%, and the inclusion of Old Mutual Finance Credit Including OMAM UK sales in both 2011 and 2012, nonLife sales of 14 million for the first time boosting risk sales.
covered sales increased by 2% to 5,882 million.
OMGI sales increased by 37% to 3,040 million as a number of funds MFC now serves just under two million customers, with an attracted increased inflows notably the Spectrum fund additional 200,000 signed up in 2012 and we placed an range.
Spectrum now has 1.6 billion of FUM.
OMGI MFC agent in each of the Old Mutual Finance branches.
European retail sales were also strong, with gross inflows South African single premium sales increased by 3%: of around 670 million.
UK Heritage sales into Institutional Corporate sales growth of 30%, due mainly to large annuity products increased during the year, benefiting from new deals, was partially offset by lower Retail Affluent revenue partnerships established in 2012.
On the UK Platform, due to reduced fixed bond, living annuity and guaranteed non-covered sales fell 26% to 2,067 million as investor annuity sales.
Had we converted Retail Affluent non-life confidence was weakened by volatile markets and IFAs sales to an APE basis, total Retail Affluent sales would have focused on preparation for RDR.
In the Rest of Africa, total APE sales increased by 15% Margins and value of new business due mainly to strong underlying growth in Zimbabwe and Across LTS as a whole, new business APE margin increased Malawi, with the latter benefiting from the introduction of to 18% from 15% and present value of new business mandatory occupational pension schemes.
premiums PVNBP margin improved to 2.3% 2011: 1.9%.
In Emerging Markets, VNB improved strongly by 52% to Old Mutual Wealth single premium sales on the UK Platform 135 million, with a significant increase in the APE margin were down 4%, although inflows improved in Q4.
VNB was boosted by improved product sales accounted for 229 million of the total 279 million total mix in Corporate, due to a greater proportion of higherUK life sales on an APE basis.
margin with-profit annuity sales, improved risk product APE sales on the UK Heritage book reduced by 19 million sales including the recording of Old Mutual Finance Credit to 50 million, reflecting the managed reduction in product Life sales in MFC for the first time, improved mix of range in the lead-up to RDR.
business in Retail Affluent and a favourable change in economic assumptions.
In the cross-border International market, APE sales decreased by 13% to 181 million, impacted by difficult market The value of new business in Old Mutual Wealth reduced conditions in H1 as well as regulatory changes.
Sales picked by 16 million to 62 million.
H1 2012 was challenging, up in H2 as markets improved, with Q4 seeing the years with reduced sales volumes: but VNB strengthened in H2, strongest quarterly sales and an improvement of 24% on the boosted by improved sales performance and a more same period in 2011. profitable product mix, particularly in the International business, coupled with lower acquisition expenses.
Covered APE sales in Old Mutual Wealth Europe increased by 12% to 124 million in the open book.
Sales in Italy were In Old Mutual Wealth, lower sales and a less profitable up 32% as a result of new distribution arrangements and business mix in H1 reduced the APE margin to 10% 2011: 11% ongoing improvements in sales volumes from key strategic and PVNBP margin to 1.2%.
Modest sales levels in France and Poland reflected the still challenging sales environment across Europe.
Operating MCEV earnings Overall LTS operating MCEV earnings decreased by 39% In Old Mutual Wealths European heritage markets, reduced to 336 million, with Old Mutual Wealth impacted by APE sales followed the closure of the German, Austrian and restructuring costs following strategic changes announced Swiss books, as we reposition our business in these markets in November 2012. to manage them for value.
In Emerging Markets, operating MCEV earnings post-tax Non-covered sales including unit trust, increased by 5% to 328 million, but was down 6% on mutual fund and other non-covered sales a reported basis.
The main contributors to this were the Overall LTS non-covered sales were up 27% to improved VNB and positive operating assumption changes 14,549 million.
and positive experience for mortality and disability.
This was partially offset by lower persistency experience variances, In Emerging Markets, non-covered sales increased by 32% to following the final releases of short-term termination 8,937 million.
Unit trust and mutual fund sales increased by provisions and closer alignment of persistency experience to 42% with higher OMUT, acsis and Galaxy sales on the back assumptions at the end of 2011, increased development costs of high equity market growth in South Africa.
The Colombian and tax experience losses.
Total MCEV earnings post-tax Unit Trust business achieved strong sales in money market increased by 38% to 583 million benefiting from positive and cross-border products.
Other non-life sales grew by 22% investment variances in 2012s strong equity and bond boosted by significant, albeit lower-margin, inflows into markets, and economic assumption changes resulting from OMIGSAs Dibanisa and Liability-Driven Investment boutiques.
There were some offsetting negative impacts from changes to capital gains tax and the introduction of dividend withholding tax.
34 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 How we have performed How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business Old Mutual Wealth reported an operating MCEV earnings market subsidiaries to align their legal structure with their post-tax of 8 million 2011: 203 million, reflecting operational management.
89 million of restructuring costs, following strategic changes Following the restructure of the OMIGSA boutiques in in the UK business and the implementation of the manage for 2012, all impacted boutiques are fully operational in the value strategy in the European businesses.
Future cost saving new structure.
benefits expected to emerge from restructuring initiatives are not yet reflected in MCEV, consistent with the Finance Forum In South Africa the majority of our advisers required to sit principles that govern MCEV methodology.
Negative the FAIS regulatory exams have now passed, significantly experience variances, relating to development cost overruns, mitigating the risk to our sales and retention.
We will continue and lower rebate profits, following positive assumption to support our advisers to pass the exams as part of business changes in the UK and International businesses at the end as usual going forward, which will put us in a strong position of 2011, reduced MCEV operating profit further.
Total MCEV to capture the growing opportunity we see in the mass market.
earnings were 127 million 2011: 160 million, mainly due old mutual Wealth to positive investment returns driven by growth in the UK In Q3 2012 we announced the combination of the Skandia equity market.
businesses Skandia UK, Skandia International, OMGI and the Skandia European businesses outside the Nordic region Value creation into a single business called Old Mutual Wealth.
The One of our key performance metrics for LTS covered business operational changes are designed to combine asset is Group Value Creation.
This measures the contribution to management capability with UK Platform strength and return on embedded value from management actions of cross-border expertise to grow a leading provider of wealth writing profitable new business and managing expenses, management solutions in the UK and internationally.
persistency, risk and other experience compared to what had The combination has resulted in significant cost efficiencies, been assumed.
Excluding the impact of our managing for predominantly from central functions as we reduce duplication value strategy, this metric reduced to 3.0% from 5.6% in LTS.
Value creation on a reported basis was 2.6% 2011: 5.1%.
As part of the reorganisation we combined SIG, our One-off restructuring costs and project spend in Old Mutual multi-manager, with OMAM UK to create OMGI, a Wealth and Emerging Markets reduced the Group Value profitable asset management capability that can support the Creation by 1.4%, these initiatives will improve Group Value growth and transformation of Old Mutual Wealth.
The newly Creation going forward.
The VNB contribution has remained combined asset manager has achieved run-rate expense strong, despite lower sales volumes in Old Mutual Wealth in savings and improved operating margins.
The Old Mutual Wealth International business saw strong VNB in Q4 2012 and we expect to improve the We also decided to move to a managing for value strategy contribution from cross-border product sales in the future.
in Europe, which will focus management attention on maintaining the existing books and managing them for Management actions profitability and cash generation, rather than pursuing emerging markets pan-European growth.
As part of this strategy we closed the When we completed our acquisition of Oceanic Life in Austrian and German books to new business.
The Swiss book Nigeria in February 2013, our experienced integration team was closed to new business in 2011.
We also initiated a cost had already been in place for some time.
Old Mutual Nigeria reduction programme in France to bring the business to will be the hub for our expansion in West Africa, and we are profitability in the near term.
For growth in Europe we will looking at further options both in Nigeria and Ghana to gain focus on expanding our cross-border International sales, scale in the region.
In East Africa, we are making progress and improving the profitability of the Italian, French and with our plans to expand further in Kenya and other Polish domestic businesses.
The RDR came into effect on 1 January 2013.
Our focus in In November 2012, we officially launched the Retail Mass 2012 was to ensure that we were compliant and open for business in Mexico under the Old Mutual brand.
In the same business on schedule.
In Q4 2012 we launched our new month we announced the acquisition of a majority stake in flexible adviser charging structure and introduced a new Aiva Business Platforms, a Uruguay-based strategic unbundled charging structure for clients on both our onshore distribution business with over $800 million of assets under and International platforms.
We also implemented the full management, further increasing our distribution reach in set of RDR regulations on our systems.
While the other emerging markets.
The acquisition was completed in implementation of RDR has resulted in significant January 2013.
In China, Old Mutual-Guodian strengthened development costs, we believe the post-RDR landscape its distribution capabilities through an agreement with will create new opportunities for us.
New UK products launched during the year included the The Groups Zimbabwean business was transferred to Old Generation fund range, an innovative retirement solution, Mutual South Africa OMSA on 1 July 2012 for an initial and a revitalised, gender-neutral protection offering.
consideration of R1.1 billion and a deferred consideration of Launches in our cross-border International markets included R0.5 billion potentially available in 2015, subject to valuation.
a new portfolio bond and a structured product in South We have also agreed the terms of the transfer of the Africa and a universal life, high death benefit product for Colombian and Mexican businesses to OMSA, subject to selected other markets.
These products successfully boosted regulatory approval.
The new organisational structure will sales performance through H2 2012.
We also began the reflect the operational management of the businesses, and roll-out of Wealth Interactive, our new-generation, e-enabled we are in the process of transferring several other emerging international investment platform.
35 Long-term savings continued challenging as advisers and customers adapt to the post-RDR Outlook world notwithstanding that the UK equity market conditions emerging markets have been positive for the first two months of the year.
We Our focus in 2013 will be on strong, profitable sales growth expect it to be characterised by a combination of whole-ofand new growth opportunities that use the strength and core market independent advice and more parameterised competencies of the wider Group.
In particular, we see good restricted advice.
We see opportunities to service both these prospects to grow our businesses in sub-Saharan Africa models and will support both.
Our new focused fund range, where we believe the recent economic growth is a due for launch later in the year, will be a key solution for sustainable, long-term trend.
We will explore means for advisers in the post-RDR world.
We have reorganised our UK organic and inorganic growth in this region leveraging our sales force to match the markets future shape and needs.
established business bases in South Africa, Namibia, Kenya and Zimbabwe, whose expertise will enable us to design and Changing regulation is also a strong theme in International export relevant products and low-cost IT infrastructure into markets, with Singapores Financial Advisory Industry Review new markets.
and similar initiatives emerging in other markets.
We launched new products and new distribution relationships Economic growth for the whole of sub-Saharan Africa is with a number of major banks and stockbrokers in South expected to average around 5% in real terms.
This growth in Africa, UK, Hong Kong and the Middle East in 2012.
We have consumer and urban wealth is supported by substantial a strong pipeline of similar deals we are pursuing, all of long-term demographic trends and provides good prospects which will strengthen our distribution footprint and improve for our business.
Despite a moderately improved global access to mass affluent and high-networth customers in local outlook, real GDP growth in South Africa is expected to be markets.
We believe this will support positive sales momentum below 3%.
The ANC Conference in December 2012 accepted in 2013.
We also look forward to further strengthening our a number of pragmatic policy decisions and the National long-standing relationship with Aiva, the Latin American Development Plan as the backbone of future government distribution business recently acquired by Old Mutual economic policy, paving the way for growth-enhancing Emerging Markets.
We expect to incur further non-recurring restructuring costs Despite Moodys downgrade of South Africas sovereign in 2013 to execute the strategy.
Several programmes rating and the resulting downgrade of Old Mutual Life to improve efficiency are already underway: for example, Assurance Company South Africas OMLAC SA Global we are assessing ways to cut the cost of technology and Insurance Financial Strength rating from A1 negative to administration on our heritage books to reflect the reducing A3 negative, OMLAC SA remains one of South Africas policy count inherent in a closed-book model.
We continue to explore ways of managing our balance sheet structure to provide long-term We are confident that OMGI is well placed to meet investors capital flexibility.
needs in 2013, following our work to strengthen its marketing, product and sales functions, as well as its excellent investment The Groups general insurance businesses in the Rest of performance in 2012.
We have seen some redemptions from Africa will be managed as part of the operations of Old OMGI following the sale of the Groups Nordic business and Mutual Emerging Markets in the countries in which they are we expect these to continue in 2013. situated.
We will continue to reflect both Long-Term Savings and the general insurance businesses in our Rest of Africa Following the change of strategy for our European business, KPIs and targets going forward.
we expect to see a continued slowdown in sales across Germany, Austria and Switzerland.
Poland and France old mutual Wealth both had reduced sales, in challenging market conditions.
Our priority in 2013 is to embed the strategic decisions taken Italy continued to perform well finishing 2012 strongly, with in 2012 and continue the implementation of all aspects of our early indications suggesting this will continue into 2013.
Simplify, Unify and Grow plan.
We believe the UK market for retail financial services will continue to develop as advisers fully implement new business models.
In the short term, UK conditions will inevitably be Emerging Markets data tables South African rand adjusted operating profit rm 2012 2011 % change Retail Affluent 2,725 2,377 15% Mass Foundation Cluster 1,621 1,529 6% Corporate 1,127 693 63% Rest of Africa 561 404 39% Latin America & Asia 218 225 3 % LTIR 1,613 1,308 23% Life and savings 7,865 6,536 20% 1 OMIG SA 933 723 29% Central expenses and administration 924 618 50 % total emerging markets 7,874 6,641 19% 1 From 2012, Old Mutual Unit Trusts is reported as part of Retail Affluent only and no longer also as part of OMIG SA, together with a subsequent elimination within central expenses.
Prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly.
2012 sales reflected our conservative approach to lending, following evidence of increased client debt levels.
Impairment provisions rose 0.4%, following a change in the maturity profile of the loan book.
Old Mutual Wealth data tables sterling adjusted operating profit m 2012 2011 % change Core markets UK Platform 2 4 n m International 68 79 14 % 1 OMGI 3 9 67 % total core markets 73 84 13 % manage for value markets UK Heritage 92 100 8 % 2 Old Mutual Wealth Europe open book 4 3 n m 3 Old Mutual Wealth Europe closed book 34 38 11 % total manage for value 122 141 13 % total old mutual Wealth 195 225 13 % 1 OMGI includes OMAM UK AOP of 2 million in 2011.
2 Includes business written in France, Italy and Poland.
3 Includes business written in Germany, Austria and Switzerland.
gross sales and funds under management bn market and other 1-Jan-12 gross sales redemptions net flows movements 31-Dec-12 Core markets UK Platform 18.8 4.1 1.9 2.2 1.6 22.6 1 International 14.3 1.7 1.5 0.2 0.4 14.1 OMGI 12.1 4.8 4.5 0.3 1.4 13.8 total core 45.2 10.6 7.9 2.7 2.6 50.5 manage for value markets UK Heritage 14.3 1.3 2.5 1.2 1.0 14.1 Old Mutual Wealth Europe open book 5.2 1.2 0.8 0.4 0.5 6.1 Old Mutual Wealth Europe closed book 4.3 0.6 0.4 0.2 4.5 total manage for value 23.8 3.1 3.7 0.6 1.5 24.7 Elimination of intra-Group assets 6.4 1.8 1.7 0.1 0.5 6.0 3 2 total old mutual Wealth 62.6 11.9 9.9 2.0 4.6 69.2 1 International FUM market and other movements includes an outflow of 1.1 billion of assets following the sale of Finland.
2 Gross sales included 0.3 billion of Q1 2012 sales in respect of OMAM UK.
3 Opening FUM includes OMAM UK FUM of 4.0 billion.
2 To allow comparison on a like for like basis, OMGIs non-covered sales includes sales of 1,403 million from OMAM UK in 2012, including 270 million of sales in Q1 2012, and 1,096 million in 2011.
39 Long-term savings continued Emerging Markets Old Mutual South Africa OMSA is one of the largest and longest-established financial services providers in South Africa providing individuals, businesses, corporates and institutions with long-term savings, protection and investment solutions.
Key financial highlights Return on Equity RoE APE sales adjusted operating profit pre-tax % m 2012 24 2012 523 605m 2011 24 2011 524 2011: 570m NCCF MCEV covered business Funds under management bn m 2012 1.2 2012 3,296 52.6bn 2011 0.4 2011 3,167 2011: 49.9bn Non-covered sales Value creation m VNB experience variance MCEV % 2012 8,937 2012 3.5 2011 7,559 2011 6.8 In South Africa we are experienced in developing products Fully integrating our South African Wealth for sophisticated markets as well as simple products for Management proposition low-income markets, and we have experience in pricing Continuing growth in the Mass Foundation Cluster diverse risks.
We run and have a comprehensive Accelerating growth in African operations, mostly understanding of multiple distribution channels.
We are through acquisitions that add significant scale or through leveraging this business by sharing product experience, distribution partners directly or through the Africa people and professional skills, systems and processes, and Strategic Investment Fund distribution knowledge into our businesses in other Continuing investment in Mexicos mass market business high-growth economies in Africa, Latin America and Asia.
and growth of the retail affluent business in Mexico.
In Latin America we operate in Mexico and Colombia, where we offer customers direct asset management and fund selection for portfolio building and open architecture Case study products.
In sub-Saharan Africa we operate across a broad range of countries including Namibia, Zimbabwe, Nigeria, Malawi, Kenya and Swaziland.
In Asia we operate joint Doing well by doing good ventures with Kotak Mahindra Bank in India and Guodian Capital Holdings in China.
through responsible investing Emerging Markets includes Old Mutual Investment Group The Futuregrowth Agri-Fund in South Africa a joint venture with UFF Agri SA OMIG SA, a multi-boutique investment house.
Asset Management provides long-term returns and a tangible social and Its independent, performance-driven boutiques offer development benefit through supporting the land reform process in South a comprehensive spread of investment styles, including Africa.
In 2012, the Funds efforts to run its investments responsibly were specialist equity, infrastructure, socially responsible investing, rewarded when farm workers did not participate in the strikes that erupted active asset allocation, fixed income and value.
Old Mutual in South Africas Western Cape Province.
The Funds investment process Specialised Finance OMSFIN is a proprietary investment means that workers are already paid a fair wage and a portion of business and alternatives investment manager operating invested capital is spent on education and healthcare programmes to alongside OMIG SA s independent investment boutiques.
empower workers and create independent emerging farmers.
The nature of the farming done in the Funds investments tends to be labour intensive, strategy and job creation through developing additional land remains a long-term Emerging Markets has a well established strategy focused on: aim of the Fund.
Reducing the costs in the Retail Affluent legacy books and For more information on the Groups Responsible Business rationalising our Corporate administration platforms and activities see pages 10-11 fund options 40 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 How we have performed How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business Our strategy in action: Going forward: 1. improve the customer proposition and experience 1. improve the customer proposition and experience Significant progress towards Treating customers fairly TCF Launch a new integrated South African Wealth Management implementation in 2014. proposition.
Heavy investment in a CRM capability to drive deeper Implement revised customer value propositions to our existing understanding of our customers.
and new customers, enabled by our CRM capability and New product launches included an enhanced Greenlight disability investment in an integrated customer service and intermediary product suite and the SmartMax education savings product.
Grew customer numbers 12% in Africa and 3% in South Africa and 2.
Deliver high performance improved our customer experience, as evidenced by Net promoter score NPS feedback.
Continue to focus on delivery of financial targets and diversification of earnings across emerging markets by accelerating growth 2.
Deliver high performance in Africa.
In South Africa, drive synergies and extract efficiencies Excellent financial results in a challenging economic climate, with across business units towards strong, more profitable market strong growth in sales and net client cash flow.
Continue to invest in improving OMIGSA equity High growth in our Mass Foundation Cluster business, cementing investment performance.
our leadership position in this market segment.
Continued investment in growing both the life and non-life parts of 3. share skills and experience across the group this business.
Continue to leverage our capabilities in tied distribution, capital 3. share skills and experience across the group intensive guaranteed products and low-cost administration across emerging markets.
Launched the Retail Mass business in Mexico under the In Africa specifically, continue to roll out our Business in a Box model Old Mutual brand, strengthening the emerging markets franchise towards better standardisation and unit cost efficiencies.
Explore in Latin America by leveraging our South African capabilities in opportunities to take advantage of synergies with other businesses this market segment.
Build a culture of excellence Old Mutual came second in the large company category of Continued focus on attracting, retaining and deploying specific the annual Deloitte Best Company To Work For Survey.
talent pools to strengthen the South African base and drive growth Named as best large employer in South Africa in the Corporate in emerging markets, with particular focus on Africa.
Research Foundation Institutes annual Best Employers Certification Index for 2012 13.
5. grow our penetration of and presence in selected emerging markets 5. grow our penetration of and presence in selected emerging markets Continue to grow scale and expand in East and West Africa while selectively entering other attractive South African Acquired Oceanic Life in Nigeria and progressed well in Development Community SADC countries, and set aside capital integrating it with Old Mutual Nigeria.
of R5 billion for this purpose.
In Latin America, successfully concluded the acquisition of a majority stake in Aiva Business Platforms to further strengthen our 6. operate as the most trusted partner presence and distribution capability in Latin America.
in the communities in which we serve Established a strategic investment fund to accelerate growth in new African markets, alongside relevant strategic partners.
Continue to drive achievement of our targets and commitments to South African stakeholders.
6. operate as the most trusted partner Continue to invest significantly in job creation, skills development in the communities in which we serve and basic education, specifically in maths and science, in conjunction with various partners and schools.
Achieved Level 2 BBBEE status for the third year in a row Embed and implement a sustainability strategy across our business.
and reached agreement with Zimbabwean government on indigenisation, benefiting staff, client and staff pensioners, a Youth 7. simplifying structure Fund and other strategic partners.
Launched a series of Socially Responsible Investment funds and Consolidate Mutual & Federal M&F Africa into Old Mutual Africa.
adopted the UN Principles for Responsible Investment.
Gave over Continue identifying opportunities to simplify the business and 250,000 people financial education and money management execute this strategy.
Progress the transfer of various other emerging markets subsidiaries to align their legal structure with their operational management.
7. simplifying structure Consolidated seven South African wealth management businesses into one integrated business.
Simplified OMIG SA s boutique structure.
Agreed the terms of the transfer of the Groups Zimbabwean, Colombian and Mexican businesses to OMSA, subject to regulatory approval.
The new organisational structure will reflect the operational management of the businesses.
41 Long-term savings continued Old Mutual Wealth Across all markets, our core capabilities include strong distribution relationships, product and solution design, and service quality.
Key financial highlights Return on Equity RoE APE sales adjusted operating profit pre-tax % m 2012 13 2012 610 195m 2011 16 2011 683 2011: 223m NCCF MCEV covered business Funds under management bn m 2012 2.0 2012 2,444 69.2bn 2011 2.8 2011 2,546 2011: 58.6bn Non-covered sales Value creation m VNB experience variance MCEV % 2012 5,612 2012 1.7 2011 4,689 2011 4.0 Our focus is on delivering strong investment performance strategy through our own investment management capabilities and Last year marked the beginning of our next phase of growth.
customer-focused investment solutions that deliver positive Paul Feeney was appointed CEO in August 2012, and in outcomes for customers through open architecture November 2012 we announced our strategy and targets for propositions.
Clients can access our solutions through the next three years.
The strategy will create a modern, vertically unit-linked life insurance, pensions, unit trusts and crossintegrated wealth management and asset management border product wrappers.
business delivering capital-efficient, customer-focused investment and risk solutions through our market-leading During 2012 we announced the formation of the new, unified platforms.
Over the next three years we will unify the business, Old Mutual Wealth business, which brings together our: simplify it to focus on key markets, and grow in these markets.
UK Life business Unify UK Retail Advice Platform business Unifying the business enables us to reduce our cost base and create scale opportunities.
We announced in the second Continental European businesses predominantly based in half of 2012 that we are reducing our UK headcount by Germany, Austria, Poland, France, Italy and Switzerland around 200, predominantly in central support areas.
Cross-border International business This programme is now materially complete and, together Two asset management businesses: Skandia Investment with further opportunities to rationalise infrastructure, Group SIG, a multi-manager and investment packaging will contribute towards a strong improvement in our UK business, and Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Platforms operating margin.
The unification of SIG and OMAM UK, a directly-invested equity, bond and OMAM UK has given us improved operational scale and alternatives business.
Combining the above into one unified business, supported Simplify by a strong and profitable asset management capability, Our strategy involves simplifying not only our structure but will allow us to further develop our own wealth solutions also our strategic agenda.
We believe we can unlock value in turn enabling us to capture a greater share of the value by focusing on our core UK and cross-border International chain.
The combined business has one management team, growth markets, while moving to a manage for value one governance structure, one vision and one strategy.
Unifying the businesses has also supported our strategy by reducing the cost base.
42 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 How we have performed How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business Our strategy in action: Going forward: 1. improve the customer proposition and experience 1. improve the customer proposition and experience Launched RDR-compliant proposition for UK.
Launch Select fund range for the post-RDR advice market.
Launched new-generation e-enabled international platform Wealth Develop asset management capability.
Revitalised our UK protection suite.
Improve digital connectivity with clients.
Launched new-generation funds for the atand in-retirement market.
Maintain product and service innovation.
Deliver high performance in all markets 2.
Deliver high performance in all markets Delivered return on capital and cost saving targets set in 2010.
Manage efficiency and persistency in Europe to improve Announced manage for value strategy in Continental Europe profitability and generate cash.
Deliver profit, RoE and operating margin targets.
Merged SIG and OMAM UK now running at 14% operating margin.
Return surplus capital to shareholders.
3. share skills and experience across the group 3. share skills and experience across the group Collaborated with Old Mutual South Africa to implement customer Continue learning from other parts of the business as unification service metrics and net promoter score programme in Operations.
of the business is embedded.
Collaborate closely with Emerging Markets on our digital strategy.
Build a culture of excellence UK and International businesses received several awards for excellence including Best platform and Best international life Continue to improve service delivery through among others group.
UK business awarded five stars in Investments and Life and LEAN, our Casanovas customer service initiative, and net Pension categories at Financial Adviser Service Awards as well promoter score programmes.
as awards for Best wrap platform and Best online provider.
Retain and develop talent in the asset management business.
Old Mutual Wealth Europe won customer service awards in Austria 5. simplify our structure for the 10th year running and France.
Focus on core markets UK and International cross-border, 5. simplify our structure and on managing for value in Europe.
Unified UK, International, Continental Europe and Asset Management businesses into one business with clear focus and reduced cost base.
Concluded sale of Finnish branch.
This manage for value strategy involves moving to a closed New products and offerings launched in our International book model for our retail portfolio in Switzerland, Austria markets included a portfolio bond and structured product for and Germany, with an emphasis on persistency and cost the South African market, a portfolio builder tool for advisers management to maximise cash generation.
We still see and a universal life high death benefit product for selected growth prospects in Italy and Poland, where we will focus markets.
We have also begun the roll-out of Wealth on developing profitability while balancing the associated Interactive, our new-generation, e-enabled international capital demands.
We will also seek further growth in our investment platform.
Old Mutual Global Investors OMGI, already has a strong Grow offering in UK fixed income, UK and European equities and Our growth will be driven by innovation and further multi-manager risk targeted, diversified growth and income development of our distribution capability.
Our focus over the next three years is to develop further fit-for-market capabilities in these and Innovation other asset classes in line with investor needs.
Developing investment management and risk solutions built around customer needs will remain a key focus for us over Distribution the next three years.
Significant initiatives already delivered Our growth strategy also includes securing and growing in 2012 include our new Generation investment range: an distribution in the UK and our international markets for our atand in-retirement proposition providing defined levels of cross-border propositions.
income with elements of capital preservation and protection Our core route to market is through financial advisers.
We have also revitalised our insurance continue to provide them with tools and investment solutions protection suite, with streamlined application and that allow them to serve their clients.
We will seek to partner underwriting processes and first mover advantage closely with them, and to establish new relationships that on gender neutral pricing.
allow us to broaden our distribution reach.
We also look We have completed development of Select a range of forward to further developing our long standing relationship high quality funds for the UK post-RDR market, managed with Aiva, the Latin American distribution network recently by leading investment managers for launch in 2013.
Select acquired by Old Mutual Emerging Markets.
delivers not only our own investment range but also on those We are complementing our adviser offering with further of selected partners, enabling financial advisers to build development of our digital connection with clients, so that client investment portfolios with funds from the best managers they can interact with us in whichever manner they prefer.
