ANNUAL REVIEW Profits up 18%... Having committed Old Mutual delivered a strong performance in 2012, driven primarily by excellent results from its businesses in emerging markets.
Despite challenging macro-economic conditions ourselves to stretching throughout most of the year, we saw excellent operational performance across most businesses within the Group and strategic and financial good profit growth on a constant currency basis.
The Group remains in a strong financial position, with reduced debt targets, 2012 marked levels and a Financial Groups Directive FGD surplus of 2.0 billion.
We made substantial returns of capital to both equity and debt holders during the year, and paid a Special a milestone in their Dividend of around 1 billion in June 2012.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.25p or its equivalent achievement in other applicable currencies, up 31% in cash terms.
The reported results of the Groups businesses were affected by a significant depreciation of the rand against sterling, with the average rand rate declining during the period by 12%.... against a challenging backdrop...
In South Africa, the economy grew by 2.5%, Government debt to gross domestic product GDP was around 40%, and the JSE grew by 23%.
The impact was strong credit growth which is now weakening and asset growth, but a softening of rates in the general insurance industry.
The ratings agencies became concerned about the South African economy, citing unrest in the mining sector and the drop in commodity prices that fed through into a depreciation of the rand.
This year has started with continued asset growth and a strengthening of the rand.
In Europe, sentiment to the euro seemed to improve, but growth remained low, with Germany moving into recession and youth unemployment in parts of southern Europe growing to over 50%.
Conditions in the UK were also challenging, with the economy remaining flat, although the FTSE100 Index rose by 6%.
Unemployment remained lower than expected and consumers continued to save, but cut back on spending.
In the US, markets remained flat until Q4, when there was a marked improvement in sentiment.
Julian Roberts Group Chief Executive Timeline of our strategy Set out new Sold US Life Paid Special Skandia businesses USAM completed three-year Dividend of merged to create repositioning of its Group Strategy around 1 billion Old Mutual Wealth portfolio through the to shareholders management buy-out of five of its affiliate firms iWyze launched Closed Old Mutual Sold Old Mutual Announced in Mutual & Wealths Swiss book Wealths Finnish new strategy Federal to new business business for Old Mutual Wealth Sold Nordic Acquired Oceanics for 2.1 billion Nigerian life insurance business from Ecobank end 2009 end 2010 end 2011 end 2012 Bought out Mutual Sold USAMs Sold USAMs & Federal minority Lincluden Dwight and Sale of Zimbabwe from Group shareholders affiliate OMCap affiliates to Old Mutual Emerging Markets Closed Old Mutual Combined Retail as part of exercise to transfer Wealths Austrian Europe with Old businesses to align legal structure and German books Mutual Wealth with how they are managed to new business Bought out Imperial Holdings Combination of OMAM UK share of Imperial Bank and and SIG to create Old Mutual integrated it in full into Nedbank Global Investors OMGI 18 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
