MCEV StatEMEnt of DirECtorS rESponSibilitiES in relation to the Market Consistent Embedded Value basis supplementary information The directors of Old Mutual plc have chosen to prepare supplementary information on a Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV basis.
Old Mutuals methodology adopts the Market Consistent Embedded Value Principles Copyright Stichting CFO Forum Foundation 2008 issued in June 2008 and updated in October 2009 by the CFO Forum the Principles as the basis for the methodology.
The Principles have been fully complied with at 31 December 2012 for all businesses.
In preparing the MCEV supplementary information, the directors have: Prepared the supplementary information in accordance with the methodology described above and the basis of preparation as set out on page 228 Identified and described the business covered by the MCEV methodology Applied the MCEV methodology consistently to the covered business Determined assumptions on a market consistent basis and operating assumptions on a best estimate entity-specific basis, having regard to past, current and expected future experience and to any relevant external data, and then applied them consistently: and Where relevant, made estimates that are reasonable and consistent.
Julian roberts philip broadley Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 1 March 2013 222 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 F Fiin nanc anciial alss MCEV How we What Where we inDEpEnDEnt have Our risks Financials we do are going performed auDitorS rEport to Old Mutual plc on the Market Consistent Embedded Value How we govern our business basis supplementary information We have audited the Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV basis supplementary information the supplementary information of Old Mutual plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012 set out on pages 224 to 248.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the supplementary information is the Market Consistent Embedded Value Principles issued in October 2009 by the European CFO Forum the MCEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 228 to 236.
The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with the Group financial statements which are on pages 120 to 211.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company those matters we have been engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 222, the directors have accepted responsibility for the preparation of the supplementary information on an MCEV basis in accordance with the MCEV Principles.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the supplementary information in accordance with the terms of our engagement and in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the supplementary information An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary information sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the supplementary information is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the supplementary information.
In addition we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Old Mutual plc Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited supplementary information.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
opinion on the supplementary information In our opinion, the MCEV basis supplementary information of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012 has been properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the MCEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out on page 228. philip Smart for and on behalf of KpMG audit plc Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 1 March 2013 223
