PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 57 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Benchmark A market index, which averages the performance of companies in any sector, giving a good indication of any rises or falls in the market.
The benchmark used in these accounts is the FTSE All-Share Index.
Discount The amount by which the mid-market share price of an investment trust is lower than the diluted net asset value per share.
The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
Gearing The gearing percentage reflects the amount of borrowings that a company has invested.
This figure indicates the extra amount by which shareholders funds would move if a companys investments were to rise or fall.
A positive percentage indicates the extent to which shareholders funds are geared: a nil gearing percentage, or nil, shows a company is ungeared.
A negative percentage indicates that the company is not fully invested.
There are several methods of calculating gearing and the following has been used in this report: Gross Gearing This reflects the amount of gross borrowings in use by a company and takes no account of any cash balances.
It is based on gross borrowings as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Net Gearing This reflects the amount of net borrowings invested, ie borrowings less cash and UK government bonds.
It is based on net borrowings as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Market Capitalisation Is calculated by multiplying the stockmarket price of an ordinary share by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Net Asset Value Basic Net Asset Value Also described as Shareholders funds, the net asset value is the value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose include current and long-term liabilities.
The net asset value per share is calculated by dividing the net asset value by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Diluted Net Asset Value The diluted net asset value is the net asset value per share that would arise if the subscription shares were converted.
It is calculated by dividing the net asset value by the number of shares that would be in issue if all the subscriptions shares were converted to ordinary shares.
Where the diluted net asset value per ordinary share is greater than the basic net asset per ordinary share, there is no dilutive effect.
Ongoing Charges Ratio The annualised ongoing charges, including those charged to capital but excluding interest, incurred by the Company, expressed as a percentage of the average undiluted net asset value at fair value in the period reported.
Shareholders Funds Also called equity Shareholders funds.
The amount due to the ordinary shareholders.
Total Net Assets Total assets less current liabilities.
Total Return The combined effect of any dividends paid, together with the rise or fall in the share price or NAV.
Performance comparisons can then be made between companies with different dividend policies.
Any dividends after tax received by a shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either additional shares ie share price total return or in the Companys assets ie NAV total return.
58 The Manager of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc is Invesco Asset Management Limited.
Invesco Asset Management Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Invesco Limited and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Invesco Perpetual is a business name of Invesco Asset Management Limited.
Invesco is one of the largest independent global investment management firms, with funds under management of $668.4 billion.
We aim to provide the highest returns available from markets, through active management, but in a controlled manner, conscious of the risks involved and within our clients objectives.
Funds under Management as at 30 April 2012 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 59 SPECIALIST FUNDS MANAGED BY INVESCO PERPETUAL Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth from equities, fixed interest securities or property City Merchants High Yield Trust Limited primarily in the UK equity market.
The portfolio is geared by bank debt.
A Jersey incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed income Invesco Property Income Trust Limited instruments combined with a degree of security.
The Company The Company is a closed-ended investment company with is geared by bank debt.
limited liability incorporated in Jersey.
The objective is to Invesco Income Growth Trust plc provide ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the prospect of income and capital Aims to provide shareholders with a long-term growth in growth from investing in commercial properties in the UK and capital and real, long-term growth in dividends from an Continental Europe.
The Company is geared by bank debt.
above-average yielding portfolio comprising mainly UK equities and equity-related securities.
Seeks to achieve a total Keystone Investment Trust plc return in excess of the FTSE All-Share Index.
The Company is Aims to provide shareholders with long-term growth of capital geared by bank debt.
The Company is geared by way of Invesco Leveraged High Yield Fund Limited debenture stocks.
A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc provide a high level of income, paid gross to UK investors, Aims to generate capital growth with a higher than average whilst seeking to maximise total return through investing, income from investment, primarily in the UK equity market.
primarily in a diversified portfolio of high-yielding corporate and It is intended that the Company will provide shareholders government bonds.
The Company seeks to balance the with real dividend growth over the medium-term by investing attraction of high-yield securities with the need for protection mainly in above-average yield equities.
However, investments of capital and to manage volatility.
The Company is highly are also made in companies with lower initial yields which are geared.
considered to have good potential for income growth.
The Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Managed Liquidity Company is geared by a debenture stock and bank debt.
Share Portfolio The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Aims to generate a high level of income from a variety of Invests in UK securities with long term objective of achieving: fixed income instruments combined with a high degree of security.
1. an increase in the Net Asset Value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index: and Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Share 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK Portfolio inflation.
Portfolio Aims to generate long-term capital and income growth with real growth in dividends from investment, The Company is geared by way of two debenture stocks.
Investing in Smaller Companies Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc Aims to achieve long-term total returns for the Companys shareholders from investment in a broad cross-section of small to medium size UK-quoted companies.
The Company may gear by bank debt.
Investing Internationally Invesco Asia Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Global Equity Income Portfolio Aims to provide long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of Asian and Australasian securities.
The Aims to provide an attractive and growing level of income Company aims to achieve growth in its net asset value in excess return and capital appreciation over the long term, of the Morgan Stanley Capital International All Country Far predominately through investment in a diversified portfolio East Free ex Japan Index, measured in sterling.
The Company of equities worldwide.
Investing for Total Returns Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Balanced Risk Portfolio Aims to provide shareholders with an attractive total return The portfolio is constructed so as to balance risk, is long-only, in differing economic and inflationary environments and with using transparently-priced exchange-traded futures contracts low correlation to equity and bond market indices by gaining and other derivative instruments to gain such exposure and to exposure to three asset classes: debt securities, equities and provide gearing.
Investing in Multiple Asset Classes Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Share Portfolio A choice of asset classes within one investment trust with the Global Equity Share Portfolio freedom to switch between them, twice a year, free from Managed Liquidity Share Portfolio capital gains tax liability.
Balanced Risk Portfolio Please contact our Investor Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trusts or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
Linkway Financial Printers Typeset and Printed in London UK 16042
