52 THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to what action to take, you should consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other appropriate independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc, please forward this document and the accompanying Form of Proxy to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting AGM of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc will be held at Perpetual Park, Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire RG9 1HH on 12 July 2012 at 11.00 am for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the Annual Accounts and Reports for the year ended 31 March 2012.
To re-elect Bill Alexander a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Vivian Bazalgette a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Sir Martyn Arbib a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Antony Hardy a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Bob Yerbury a Director of the Company.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2012.
To re-appoint the Auditor and authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration.
Biographies of Directors seeking re-election are shown on page 11 of the annual financial report.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which resolution 9 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and resolutions 10, 11, 12 and 13 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 9.
THAT: the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that section up to an aggregate nominal amount within the meaning of Sections 551 3 and 6 of the Act of 7,120,101, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
THAT: the Directors be and they are hereby empowered, in accordance with Sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution the Act to allot equity securities for cash, either pursuant to the authority given by resolution 9 set out above or if such allotment constitutes the sale of relevant shares which, immediately before the sale, were held by the Company as treasury shares otherwise, as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of equity securities where the equity securities attributable respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise : and
