56 APPENDIX Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the Companys Articles of Association 1.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide shares, and reduce share capital Former Articles 55, 56 and 57 Under the Companies Act 1985 CA 1985, a company required specific enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as well as shareholder authority to undertake the relevant action.
The current articles of association Current Articles include these enabling provisions.
Under the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 a company will only require shareholder authority to do any of these things and it will no longer be necessary for the articles to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly the relevant enabling provisions have been removed in the new articles of association New Articles.
Short notice Former Article 62 Official List companies are no longer able to hold general meetings on short notice.
The provision relating to the ability of the Company to hold general meetings on short notice has been deleted from the New Articles.
Adjournments for lack of quorum Article 63.2 Under the CA 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting.
The New Articles reflect this requirement.
Timing for submission of proxy appointments Article 79.4 Article 79.4 has been amended to permit the Directors to specify, in a notice of meeting, that in determining the time for delivery of proxy appointments, no account shall be taken of non-working days.
This brings the provisions relating to timing for proxy appointments into line with the provisions of Article 131 see paragraph 7 below regarding determining which persons may attend and vote at a general meeting.
Use of seals Former Article 99 Under the CA 1985, a company required authority in its articles to have an official seal for use abroad.
Under the CA 2006, such authority is no longer required.
Accordingly, the relevant authorisation has been removed in the New Articles.
Application of sums standing to credit of capital reserve Article 124.1 The Companies Act 2006 Amendment of Part 23 Investment Companies Regulations 2012 removed the requirement that the articles of association of an investment company must prohibit the distribution of capital profits.
The New Articles reflect this change and no longer prohibit the distribution of capital profits by way of dividend.
Record date for right to attend and vote at meetings Article 131 The New Articles include a new provision, not in the Current Articles, dealing with the method for determining which persons are allowed to attend or vote at a general meeting of the Company and how many votes each person may cast.
Under this new provision, when convening a meeting the Company must specify a time, not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting excluding any part of a day that is not a working day, by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
This reflects a new provision introduced by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
