R B Y PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The shares of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Financial Calendar Trust plc the Company are quoted on the London The Company publishes information according to the Stock Exchange.
following calendar: Savings Plan and ISA Announcements Annual Results June The Company is a member of the Invesco Perpetual Half-yearly Results November Investment Trust Savings Scheme and the Invesco Interim Management Statements January July Perpetual Investment Trust ISA.
The Companys Ordinary and Subscription shares can be purchased and sold via Annual General Meeting July these two schemes.
Year End 31 March Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings Ordinary Share Dividend Timetable Scheme 1st interim payable September The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings Scheme 2nd interim payable December allows an investor to make monthly purchases from 3rd interim payable March 20 per month or through lump sum investments of 4th interim payable June 500 or above in the shares of the Company in a straightforward and low cost way.
Location of AGM Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA To be held at Perpetual Park, Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire RG9 1HH on Thursday, 12 July 2012 at The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA allows 11.00 am.
investments up to 11,280 in the shares of the Company in the current tax year.
Investors can also choose to make lump sum investments from 500, or regular investments from 20 per month.
HENLEY-ON-THAMES For full details of these schemes please contact Invesco Perpetuals Investor Services team free on 0800 085 8677.
NAV Publication The net asset value NAV of the Company is calculated by the Manager on a daily basis and is notified to the Stock Exchange on the next business day.
It is published daily in the newspapers detailed below.
Share Price Listings Subscription Shares The price of your shares can be found in The Financial Base cost for the calculation of taxation on capital Times, Daily Telegraph, The Times and The Evening gains Standard.
Trading in the subscription shares issued by the In addition, share price information can be found Company to qualifying shareholders commenced on under the following: 31 May 2005.
Further to the details outlined in the prospectus, for the purposes of UK taxation, the issue Reuters of subscription shares is treated as a reorganisation of ordinary shares PLI.
Whereas such subscription shares PLIS.
L reorganisations do not trigger a chargeable disposal for the purposes of capital gains, they do require Bloomberg shareholders to reallocate the base costs of their ordinary shares PLI:LN ordinary shares between ordinary shares and subscription shares PLIS:LN subscription shares acquired under the bonus issue.
Internet addresses At the close of business on 31 May 2005, the middle Interactive Investor www.
co. uk market prices of the Companys ordinary shares and Association of www.
co. uk subscription shares were as follows: Investment Companies Ordinary Shares 190.25p Managers Website Subscription Shares 34.50p The Managers website can be located at Accordingly, an individual investor who, on 27 May 2005, www.
co. uk investmenttrusts held ten ordinary shares or a multiple thereof would have received a bonus issue of one subscription share The contents of websites referred to in this document, or the relevant multiple thereof and would apportion or accessible from links within those websites, are not the base cost of such holding 98.22% to the ten ordinary incorporated into, nor do they form part of this annual shares and 1.78% to the subscription shares.
If you need tax advice, you should contact a qualified tax professional.
E L N E H HART ST ST. MARKS ROAD
