54 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued Notes: 1.
A form of appointment of proxy accompanies this annual financial report.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote in his stead.
Where more than one proxy is appointed, each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: via Capita Registrars website www.
com: or in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below.
and in each case to be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of the AGM.
The appointment of a proxy whether by completion of a form of appointment of proxy, or other instrument appointing a proxy or any CREST proxy instruction does not prevent a shareholder from attending and voting at the AGM.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in this document.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s, such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
A person entered on the Register of Shareholders at close of business on 10 July 2012 is entitled to attend and vote at the AGM pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any changes to the Register of Shareholders after such time and date shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the AGM.
If the AGM is adjourned, entitlement to attend and vote at the adjourned meeting, and the number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to the Companys Register of Shareholders 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
The Register of Directors Interests, the schedule of matters for the Board, the terms of reference of the Board committees and the letters of appointment for Directors will be available for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Companys AGM.
A copy of the Companys Articles of Association is available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours until the close of the AGM and will also be available at the AGM for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may have a right, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right, under such an agreement, to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the above rights of the shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Those rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 55 7.
Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Any shareholder attending the AGM has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the AGM or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the AGM that the question be answered.
You may not use any electronic address any address or number for the purposes of sending or receiving documents or information by electronic means provided in this Notice or in any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
As at 7 June 2012 being the last practicable day prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 213,816,850 ordinary shares of 10p each carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at that date are 213,816,850.
A copy of this notice contained within the 2011 annual financial report, and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by shareholders of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys annual accounts and reports including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2010: or ii any circumstance connected with the Auditor of the Company appointed for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2010 ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual financial reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Act in each case that the shareholders propose to raise at the relevant AGM.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys Auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
