PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT in respect of the preparation of the Annual Financial Report The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual financial report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under the law the Directors have elected to prepare financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006.
They are responsible for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, a Directors Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
In so far as each of the Directors is aware: there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and the Directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with s418 of CA 2006.
The Directors of the Company each confirm to the best of their knowledge, that: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: and this annual financial report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Bill Alexander Chairman 7 June 2012
