NOTESTOTHEACCOUNTS CONTINUED MarketPriceRisk The fair value of equity and other financial securities held in the Companys portfolio fluctuates with .
 other financial issues including the market perception of future risks.
The Companys strategy for the management of market price risk is driven by the Companys investment policy as outlined within the Business Review on pages 9 11.
The Board sets policies for managing this risk and meets regularly to review full, timely and relevant information on investment performance and financial results.
The management of market price risk is part of the fund management process and is fundamental to equity investment.
The portfolio is managed with an awareness of the effects of adverse price movements in the UK equity market with an objective of maximising overall returns to shareholders.
Investment and portfolio performance are discussed in more detail in the Investment Advisers Report and the investment .
Any changes in market conditions will directly affect the profit or loss reported through the Income Statement.
For instance, a 30% increase in the value of the equity exposure as at 30 April 2012 would have  2011:a30% exposure would have increased net return by 50,816,000.
A decrease of 30% 2011: 30% would have had .
LiquidityRisk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter in realising assets or otherwise raising funds to meet financialcommitments.
 the Board to be significant, given the liquid nature of the portfolio of investments and the level of cash and cash equivalents ordinarily held.
The Investment Adviser reviews liquidity at the time of each investment decision.
All of the Groups financial liabilities at 30 April 2012 had a maturity period of less than three months and .
InterestRateRisk Some of the financial instruments held by the Group are interest bearing.
As such, the Group is exposed to .
FloatingRate When the Group holds cash balances, such balances are held on overnight deposit accounts and call deposit accounts.
The benchmark rate which determines the interest payments received on cash balances is thebankbaserate, %intheUK 2011:0.50%.
