 Notice is hereby given that the 31st Annual General Meeting AGM of Personal Assets Trust Public Limited Company will be held at The Roxburghe Hotel, 38 Charlotte Square, Edinburgh, on Thursday : To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions: 1.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as Auditors and that the Directors be authorised to .
 That, in substitution for any existing authority, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to   Securities  limitedtothe allotment ofsharesand thegrantofrights inrespectof shares with an aggregatenominal valueofupto6,250,000,   resolution, whichever is the earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in a general meeting, save that the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of this authority make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require Securities to be allotted or granted after  .
 That, subject to the passing of Resolution 10 above, and in substitution for any existing power but without prejudice to the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally empowered, pursuant to Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 theAct,  asdefinedinSection 560oftheAct,  to subscribe for, or to convert securities into, Ordinary shares held by the Company as Treasury shares   if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment of equity securities, provided that this power: a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing , whicheveristhe earlier, save that theCompany may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreementwhich would  42   CONTINUED securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired:and b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value 6,250,000, being35.1%.
This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of Section560 2  .
 That, in substitution for any existing authority but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to makemarketpurchases  4 oftheAct  12.50 each in the capital of the Company Ordinary shares either for retention as Treasury shares forfuturereissue, resale, , providedthat: a : b theminimumprice excludingexpenses : c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for each Ordinary share shall not be : i 5% above the average middle market quotation on the London Stock Exchange of an :and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the LondonStockExchange:and d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the Company in a general meeting, the authority  on 31 October 2013, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary shares under such authority which will or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a .
That a General Meeting of the Company other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next .
ByOrderoftheBoard StevenKDavidson Secretary 10StColmeStreet EdinburghEH36AA 20June2012  43  CONTINUED Notes 1.
A shareholder who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote on his herbehalf.
Such proxy need not also be a shareholder of the Company.
If appointing more than one proxy, each proxy must be appointed to exercise rights .
A proxy form for use by shareholders at the meeting is enclosed with this document.
Proxies must be lodged with the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, not less than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time appointed for the meeting together with any power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed.
Completion of the proxy form will not prevent a shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
Only those shareholders having their names entered on the Companys share register not later than 6.00 pm on 24 July 2012 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 6.00 pm on the day which is 2 days excluding nonworkingdays ,  .
 the Companys share register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any shareholder to attend, speak and vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any provision in any enactment, .
Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that such corporate representatives do .
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy  s  described in the CREST Manual, and by logging on to the website www.
,  appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, .
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information , .
Themessage,  constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited ID RA 19, by no later than 11.30 am on 24 July 2012.
No such message received through the CREST network after this time will be accepted.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CRESTapplicationhost  to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies .
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers, should notethatEuroclearUK& particular messages.
Normalsystem timings and limitations will thereforeapplyin relation to theinput .
 or, ifthe , orsponsoredmember,  provider s, toprocurethathis  s take s suchactionas shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning .
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation35 5 a .
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 Nominated Persons.
Nominated Persons may have a right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if Nominated Persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these notes can be exercised only by members of the Company.
As at 20 June 2012, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Companys  rights.
Anypersonholding 3%ofthetotalvoting rights  Chairman as his her proxy will need to ensure that both he she and such third party comply with their .
Information regarding the meeting, including information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act2006, , www.
Under Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must answer any question relating to : a answering the question wouldinterfere undulywith thepreparation for the meetingor involve the : b :or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the questionbeanswered.
Shareholders are advised that, unless otherwise stated, any telephone number, website or e-mail addresswhichmay  orinanyrelated documents includingtheproxy form is not to be used for the purposes of serving information or documents on, or otherwise communicatingwith, .
The members of the Company may require the Company without payment to publish, on its website, astatement   Companys accounts, includingthe auditors report and the conductof the audit.
The Company will be %ofthe total voting rights of the Company or at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such requestsmust bemade  and addressand besent to , EdinburghEH36AA.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors and the service contract of the executive    hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of this notice .
Members meeting the threshold requirements set out in the Companies Act 2006 have the right a to require the Company to give notice of any resolution which can properly be, and is to be, moved at the meeting pursuant to section 338 of the Companies Act 2006: and or b to include a matter in the , .
