ACCOUNTINGPOLICIES The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial ReportingStandards IFRS.
  IASB,  Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee as have been approved by the IASB and still remain in effect, .
The financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 .
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where the presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC in January 2010 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the  theSORP.
A number of new standards have been issued but are not effective for this accounting period.
These have not been adopted early and the Group does not consider that the future adoption of any new standards, in , .
BASISOFCONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and the entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 30 April each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
 In order better to reflect the activities of an investment trust company, and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Income Statement between items of a .
INCOME Dividends are recognised as income when the shareholders right to receive payment has been established, .
Dividends receivable on equity shares where no ex-dividend date is quoted are recognised when the .
Where the Company has received its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the cash .
Fixed interest returns on non-equity securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as toreflect .
EXPENSES All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are charged to revenue except those incurred  returns, asfollows: %torevenueand65%tocapital.
