10 108 8 Shar Share eh ho ol ld fide er r Inf Info or rmatio mation n Inve Inves st ting ing GLOSSARY Computer data storage capacity transfer speeds Bit The basic capacity of information in computing with only two possible values often interpreted as binary digits and denoted as numerical digits 0 and 1.
Byte A unit of digital information equivalent to eight bits.
Kilobit KiloByte Kb KB Equivalent to 1000 bits or Bytes.
Megabit MegaByte Mb MB Equivalent to one million 106 bits or Bytes.
Gigabit GigaByte Gb GB Equivalent to one thousand million Bytes 109 or 1000 gigabits Gb.
Terabit TeraByte Tb TB Equivalent to one trillion 1012 bits or Bytes.
Petabit PetaByte Pb PB Equivalent to one quadrillion 1015 bits or Bytes.
Zettabit ZettaByte Zb ZB Equivalent to one sextillion 1021 bits or Bytes.
When XX s refers to the equivalent data transfer rate per second.
Computing terminology 4G LTE An initialism of Long Term Evolution, 4G LTE is a fourth generation wireless communication standard and successor to the current 3G standard.
802.11ac A wireless computer networking standard of 802.11 which will provide high throughput wireless local area networks WLAN on the 5GHz band.
Android A Linux-based operating system for mobile devices developed by the Open Handset Alliance, led by Google.
Application delivery A device placed in a datacentre between the rewall and application servers that accelerate controller ADC application performance and load balancing.
Bandwidth Term used to describe the available or consumed data communication resources expressed in bits second or multiples of it eg.
kilobits s, megabits s. Cloud Computing The delivery of computing and storage capacity as a service to a heterogeneous community of endrecipients.
A Private Cloud is operated solely for a single organisation whether managed internally or by a third-party and hosted internally or externally while a Public Cloud is the purest form of Cloud computing based on multi-tenancy and Internet delivery.
Computing Cluster Set of loosely connected computers that work together so they can be viewed as a single system.
Datacentre A centralised repository for the storage, management and dissemination of data and information.
Deep packet A form of computer network packet ltering that examines the data within a packet in order to inspection DPI better route it, or collect statistical information.
eCommerce Electronic commerce, known as e-commerce, is the buying and selling of products or services over electronic systems such as as the Internet.
Hadoop An open source software framework enabling applications to work with thousands of independent computers and massive data sets.
iOS Apples operating system used in its iPhone iPad ranges.
IP Internet Protocol see TCP IP.
IPv6 A version of the Internet Protocol IP developed by the IETF to succeed IPv4 as the dominant communications protocol used for Internet trafc.
Local loop A term used to describe the physical link or circuit that connects a customers premises to the edge of a telecommunication network although it can be applied to any last mile connection to the customer.
Multitenancy Where a single instance of a piece of software runs on a server serving multiple clients.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 Shar Share eh ho ol ld fide er r Inf Info or rm matio ation n Inve Inves st ting ing 10 109 9 Computing terminology continued Network effect The effect that one user has on the value of a product or service to other people.
More instance, the more people who own a telephone, the more valuable a telephone is to each owner.
Software as a Software delivery model where software and associated data is centrally hosted on the Cloud and service SaaS accessed by users via a web browser.
Sometimes referred to as on-demand software.
Solid state Circuits or devices built entirely from solid materials rather than vacuum gas discharge tube devices and excluding electro-mechanical devices with moving parts.
TCP IP Primary communication protocols used for the Internet.
Transmission Control Protocol TCP handles host-to-host communication while Internet Protocol IP connects local networks.
Tiered storage The assignment of different categories to data to different types of storage media in order to reduce total storage cost.
Virtualisation The creation of virtual rather than actual version of something which involves the abstraction of software from underlying hardware resources.
Virtualization can be applied to hardware, desktop, software and storage in order to centralise administrative tasks while improving overall hardware resource utilisation.
Wide Area A telecommunication network that covers a broad wide area rather than a local LAN or Networks WAN metropolitan area MAN.
This list of terms has been complied from public sources with acknowledgement and thanks to Wikipedia.
Investment and Financial terms AIC The Association of Investment Companies.
Diluted Net Asset Value The diluted NAV per Ordinary share assuming that all outstanding Subscription shares were NAV per Ordinary share converted into Ordinary shares at the period end.
Premium Discount The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust is either higher premium or lower discount than the NAV per share, expressed as a percentage of the NAV.
Reexivity Refers to circular relationships between cause and effect.
A reexive relationship is bidirectional with both the cause and the effect affecting one another.
Subscription shares Shares carrying the right but not the obligation to be exchanged for Ordinary shares or the Company at a predetermined price and at a specified time in the future.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 SH SHA AR REH EHO OL LD fide ER R INF INFO OR RM MA AT TI IO ON N Registered Ofce Registrar 4 Matthew Parker Street Equiniti Limited London SW1H 9NP Aspect House Tel: 020 7227 2700 Spencer Road Fax: 020 7227 2799 Lancing www.
co. uk West Sussex BN99 6DA www.
