D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re ep po or rt ts s S St tat ate em me en nt t of of D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re esp spo onsib nsibilit iliti ie es s 61 61 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES In Respect of the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Groups financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditors As far as the Directors are aware and to the best of their knowledge, having made enquiries, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditors are aware of such information.
Going Concern The Boards assessment of the Groups position as at 30 April 2012 and the factors impacting the forthcoming year are set out in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers Report on pages 2 to 13 and in the Directors Report which incorporates the business review and corporate governance statements.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, and its liquidity position is described in the Business Review on pages 38 to 48.
Note 31 to the financial statements includes the Groups policies and process for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of financial instruments and hedging activities.
Exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are also disclosed.
The Group has considerable financial resources and after making enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future despite the continued uncertain economic outlook.
Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 DI DIREC RECT TOR ORS S RE REP PO OR RT T 62 62 D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re ep po or rt ts s S St tat ate em me en nt t of of D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re esp spo onsib nsibilit iliti ie es s STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES continued Responsibility Statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Directors of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc, who are listed on page 36 and 37, confirm to the best of their knowledge: The financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers Report and Directors Report together constituting the Management Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and financial position of the Company and undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, and include a description of the principal risks and uncertainties.
The financial statements were approved by the Board on 9 July 2012 and the responsibility statement was signed on its behalf by Michael Moule, Chairman of the Board.
Michael Moule Chairman Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012
