GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION DIRECTORS DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES Rights of ordinary shares The beneficial interests of the directors The directors of the company as at All of the companys issued ordinary 31December 2012 were as follows: in the issued share capital of the company shares are fully paid up and rank equally were as follows: in all respects and there are no special John van Kuffeler Chairman rights with regard to control of the Number of shares Rob Anderson Non-executive company.
The rights attached to them, 31 December 31 December director in addition to those conferred on their 2012 2011 Peter Crook Chief Executive holders by law, are set out in the John van Andrew Fisher Finance Director companys articles of association.
There Kuffeler 18,000 18,000 1 Chris Gillespie Managing Director, are no restrictions on the transfer of Peter Crook 658,928 706,404 CCD 1 ordinary shares or on the exercise of Andrew Fisher 441,061 489,197 Robert Hough Non-executive voting rights attached to them, except: 1 Chris Gillespie 386,749 457,197 director 1 where the company has exercised its Rob Anderson 3,701 3,500 Stuart Sinclair Non-executive right to suspend their voting rights or Manjit director to prohibit their transfer following the Wolstenholme 5,666 5,663 Manjit Non-executive omission by their holder or any person Robert Hough 7,500 7,500 Wolstenholme director interested in them to provide the Stuart Sinclair - - company with information requested 1 These interests include conditional share awards All directors served throughout 2012 and by it in accordance with Part 22 of the granted under the LTIS, awards under the PSP up to the date of signing of the financial Companies Act 2006: or 2 where their and deferred shares under the Deferred Bonus statements, with the exception of Stuart Scheme as detailed on pages 95 to 98 of the holder is precluded from exercising directors remuneration report.
Sinclair, who was appointed on 1October voting rights by the Financial Services 2012.
Robert Hough resigned as a director on Authoritys FSA Listing Rules or the No director had any non-beneficial 31January 2013 following the completion City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
holdings at 31 December 2012 or at of his six-year term of appointment.
Employee savings-related During the year no director had a material There were no changes in the beneficial share option schemes interest in any contract of significance or non-beneficial interests of the The current scheme for employees to which the company or a subsidiary directors between 1January 2013 resident in the UK is the Provident undertaking was a party.
Financial plc Employee SavingsDIRECTORS INDEMNITIES Related Share Option Scheme 2003.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The companys articles of association The board has put procedures in place As this scheme will expire in 2013, a new permit it to indemnify directors of the to deal with situations where a director scheme will be presented for approval by company or of any associated company has a conflict of interest.
As part of shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
Details of in accordance with the Companies Act these procedures the board: the proposed new scheme will be included 2006.
The company may fund expenditure in the circular to shareholders dated incurred by directors in defending considers each conflict situation 2April 2013. proceedings against them.
separately based on its particular facts: The current scheme for employees If such funding is by means of a loan, considers any conflict situation in resident in the Republic of Ireland is the conjunction with the other duties the director must repay the loan to the Provident Financial plc International company if he she is convicted of any of directors under the Companies Employee Savings-Related Share Act 2006: criminal proceedings or judgment is given Option Scheme.
against him her in any civil proceedings.
keeps records and board minutes as to The company may indemnify any director authorisations granted by directors and Executive share incentive schemes of the company or of any associated the scope of any approvals given: and Options are outstanding under the company against any liability.
Provident Financial Executive Share Option regularly reviews conflict authorisations.
However, the company may not provide Scheme 2006 the ESOS.
Awards are also an indemnity against any liability incurred The board has complied with these outstanding under the Provident Financial by the director to the company or to procedures during the year.
In October Long Term Incentive Scheme 2006 any associated company: or against any 2012, the board considered and approved the LTIS and the Provident Financial liability incurred by the director to pay a the Chairmans conflict of interest in Performance Share Plan the PSP.
criminal or regulatory penalty: or against relation to the appointment of Howden As the current PSP expired in July 2012, any liability incurred by the director in Insurance Brokers a subsidiary of Hyperion a replacement PSP is being presented defending criminal proceedings in which Insurance Group Limited as brokers to the to shareholders for approval at the he she is convicted: or in defending any company in relation to the companys 2013 AGM.
civil proceedings brought by the company financial lines insurance cover.
or an associated company in which As set out on page 95 of the directors SHARE CAPITAL judgment is given against him her: or in remuneration report, the remuneration Increase in issued ordinary share capital connection with certain court applications committee did not grant any options During the year, the ordinary share capital under the Companies Act 2006. during the year under the ESOS or in issue increased by 1,191,195 shares to theLTIS.
No indemnity was provided and no 138,417,586 shares.
Details are set out payments pursuant to these provisions in note 23 to the financial statements.
were made in 2012 or at any time up to 26February 2013.
81 GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION Provident Financial plc 2007 Provident Financial Employee Power to allot shares for cash Benefit Trust the PF Trust At the 2012 AGM, shareholders Employee Benefit Trust the EBT authorised the directors to allot equity The EBT, a discretionary trust for The PF Trust, a discretionary trust for the benefit of executive directors securities as defined by the Companies the benefit of executive directors Act 2006 for cash up to an aggregate and employees, was established on 11 and employees, was established on 31 January 2003 and operates in nominal amount of 9,389,327.
The trustee, Kleinwort authority for the directors to allot shares Benson Jersey Trustees Limited, is not conjunction with the PSP.
The trustee, Provident Financial Trustees Performance for cash will be sought from shareholders a subsidiary of the company.
The EBT at the forthcoming AGM to be held on operates in conjunction with the LTIS Share Plan Limited, is a subsidiary of the company.
The number of shares held by 9May 2013. and has previously purchased shares in the market for the purpose of the LTIS.
the PF Trust at any time, when added to SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS the number of shares held by any other Following the passing of a resolution On the basis of the information available at the 2008 AGM, the EBT is able to trust established by the company for to the company as at 26February 2013, the benefit of employees, will not subscribe for the issue of new shares.
the following investment managers The number of shares held by the EBT exceed 5% of the issued share capital of through segregated managed funds the company.
As at 31December 2012, at any time, when added to the number have interests though not necessarily of shares held by any other trust the PF Trust had no interest in any beneficial ownership in aggregate shares in the company 2011: nil.
established by the company for the amounting to over 3% 5% for investment benefit of employees, will not exceed trusts and collective investment The PF Trust subscribes for shares 5% of the issued share capital of the companies in the issued ordinary for the purpose of satisfying awards company.
The EBT is funded by loans share capital of the company: granted under the PSP.
When the PF from the company which are then used Trust subscribes for shares, it is funded to acquire, either via market purchase or Invesco Limited 25.2% by loans from the company which are subscription, ordinary shares to satisfy then used to acquire ordinary shares M&G Investment conditional share awards granted under Management Limited 7.05% for the purposes of satisfying awards the LTIS.
For the purpose of the financial granted under the PSP.
For the purposes Marathon Asset statements, the EBT is consolidated into of the financial statements, the PF Trust Management Limited 5.67% the company and group.
As a consequence, is consolidated into the company and Tweedy Browne the loans are eliminated and the cost of group.
As a consequence, the loans are Company LLC 4.64% the shares acquired is deducted from eliminated and the cost of the shares equity as set out in note 23 on page 149 BlackRock Inc. 4.09% acquired is deducted from equity as of the financial statements.
Cantillon Capital set out in note 23 to the financial Management LLP 3.58% As the EBT operates in conjunction statements.
Awards were made under with the LTIS, the beneficial interest the PSP on 26 March 2012 and a loan Jupiter Asset in shares is transferred from the EBT to of 64,493 was made to the PF Trust Management Limited 3.51% the executive directors and employees for the purposes of acquiring ordinary Legal & General Investment when conditional share awards are made.
shares of 20 8 11p in the company Management Limited 3.45% Full vesting of such shares is subject to to satisfy these awards.
the achievement of the performance Interests as at 31 December 2012 The PF Trust operates in conjunction targets set out on pages 95 to 97 of were as follows: with the PSP and the beneficial interest the directors remuneration report.
in shares is transferred from the PF Trust Invesco Limited 25.79% In March 2012, the company provided a to executive directors and employees M&G Investment when awards are made.
Full vesting of loan of 155,205 to the EBT for the purpose Management Limited 7.07% of acquiring ordinary shares of 20 8 11p such shares is subject to the achievement of the performance target set out on in the company.
The EBT subscribed for Marathon Asset the issue of 555,812 new shares in order page 97 of the directors remuneration Management Limited 5.61% report.
to satisfy the awards made under the Tweedy Browne LTIS on 26 March 2012.
In September Company LLC 4.74% 2012 the EBT transferred the beneficial Authority to purchase shares Blackrock Inc. 3.62% ownership in 5,163 shares in order to At the 2012 AGM, shareholders authorised Legal & General Investment satisfy a further award made under the company to purchase up to 13,727,086 Management Limited 3.26% the LTIS on 3 September 2012. of its ordinary shares up until 1 November Cantillon Capital 2013 or, if earlier, the conclusion of the As at 31 December 2012, the EBT held Management LLP 3.26% next annual general meeting.
No shares the non-beneficial interest in 3,005,588 were purchased pursuant to this authority.
Alken Asset Management LLP 3.08% shares in the company 2011: 2,969,888.
A further authority for the company to The EBT may exercise or refrain from purchase its own shares will be sought exercising any voting rights in its absolute from shareholders at the forthcoming discretion and is not obliged to exercise AGM to be held on 9 May 2013. such voting rights in a manner requested by the employee beneficiaries.
82 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 GOVERNANCE EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT regular newsletters and communications ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL from the trustees to members.
In addition, AND GOVERNANCE MATTERS The group systematically provides employees with information on matters there is a website dedicated to pension During the year, the company made matters.
The trustees manage the assets donations for charitable purposes of of concern to them, consulting them or their representatives regularly, so that of the defined benefit pension scheme, 1,385,928 2011: 1,291,459.
The group which are held under trust separately their views can be taken into account when invested a further 538,570 2011: 377,888 making decisions that are likely to affect from the assets of the group.
Each in support of community programmes trustee is encouraged to undertake their interests.
Employee involvement based on the London Benchmarking in the group is encouraged as achieving training and regular training sessions on Groups guidelines.
No political donations topical issues are carried out at meetings a common awareness on the part of all were made during the year 2011: nil.
employees of the financial and economic of the trustees by the trustees advisors.
Further information on the groups The training schedule is based on The factors affecting the group plays a major corporate responsibility activities is role in maintaining its competitive position.
Pension Regulators Trustee Knowledge set out on pages 28 to 34 and on the and Understanding requirements and the The group encourages the involvement of companys website.
employees by means of operating company sessions are tailored to current topical issues or to address any skill gaps.
The newsletters, weekly performance The significance of environmental, updates, regular management team trustees have a business plan and, at the social and governance ESG matters to start of each year, review performance briefings, staff meetings and conferences the businesses of the group is regularly including trade union meetings in those against the plan and objectives from considered by the board.
In addition they agree companies which recognise unions.
affairs activity report, which covers objectives and a budget for the current corporate responsibility and community year.
The trustees are committed to clear affairs, is presented at each board meeting.
Save As You Earn member communication and also have The Chief Executive has responsibility The company operates two savingsa risk register and associated action plan for this area.
related share option schemes referred and a conflicts of interest policy and to on page 81, aimed at encouraging The groups risk management processes, register, all of which are reviewed at employees involvement and interest in details of which are set out on page 70, least annually.
the financial performance and success enable the board to review and manage of the group through share ownership.
In 2012 the company implemented a material risks arising from ESG matters.
1,469 employees are currently saving to pension consultation process to consider The board has systems in place to identify buy shares in the company under these proposals for the closure of the final and manage significant ESG risks and schemes 2011: 1,008. salary element of the defined benefit considers that it has adequate information scheme and the provision of benefits in relating to these.
In addition to these schemes a proposal future for all members of that scheme for approval of an all-employee, HMRCThere are no specific remuneration through the existing cash balance section.
approved share incentive plan will be incentives in the group based on ESG presented to shareholders at the AGM As a result of the consultation the matters.
However, the annual bonus in May 2013. company determined that this proposal scheme for executive directors comprises would proceed with an effective date specific personal objectives, and ESG Training of 31December 2012.
The benefit matters are considered when setting The company is fully committed to amendments were effected through these objectives.
Details are set out on encouraging employees at all levels changes to contracts of employment page 93 of the directors remuneration to study for relevant educational by employee consent, and all current report.
Details of training for directors qualifications and to training employees members gave specific individual are set out on page 67 of this report.
at all levels in the group.
In particular we consent on this basis.
The group manages its corporate have a series of talent and development The group also operates a stakeholder responsibility CR impacts as a means of initiatives that are implemented as a means pension plan for employees who joined ensuring that it is a responsible citizen of ensuring the company invests in the the group from 1 January 2003.
Employees and is treating its customers in a fair correct progression of its employees.
in this plan have access to dedicated manner.
The programme continues to During 2012, the company applied websites which provide information be informed by the feedback it receives to register as an authorised training on their funds and general information from its key stakeholders which enables provider with the Solicitors Regulation about the plan.
the group to respond to the social, Authority and is now authorised to issue environmental and economic issues In 2011, the company established an training contracts to trainee solicitors that are material to its operations.
Unfunded Unapproved Retirement who are able to qualify with the company.
Through the CR programme, which Benefit Scheme UURBS, for the benefit is overseen centrally with support of those employees who were affected Pensions provided by working groups, the group by the reduced annual allowance of The group operates two pension is able to manage a range of customer, pension contributions to registered schemes.
Employee involvement in local community, employee-related, pension schemes which was introduced the group defined benefit pension environmental and supply chain issues.
The UURBS offers an scheme is achieved by the appointment The company publicly discloses its CR alternative to a cash payment in lieu of member-nominated trustees and by performance via an annual CRreport of a pension benefit over the annual and through making regular submissions allowance of 50,000.
83 GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION to mainstream sustainability indices EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS There are no agreements between any such as the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones The group is committed to employment Sustainability Indexes.
The CRprogramme policies, which follow best practice, group company and any of its employees based on equal opportunities for all or any director of any group company is subject to an ongoing programme of independent assurance to reassure employees, irrespective of sex, race, which provide for compensation to be colour, disability or marital status.
The paid to an employee or a director for stakeholders that the programme is well managed, in line with legislation and group gives full and fair consideration termination of employment or for loss to applications for employment from of office as a consequence of a takeover best practice, and continually improves.
disabled persons, having regard to of the company.
HEALTH AND SAFETY their particular aptitudes and abilities.
The group attaches great importance to There are no significant agreements to Appropriate arrangements are made for the health and safety of its employees, which the company is a party that take the continued employment and training, to the self-employed agents it engages effect, alter or terminate upon a change career development and promotion and other people who may be affected of control following a takeover bid for of disabled persons employed by the by its activities.
If members of staff become disabled, every effort is made by The board has approved a group-wide DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES health and safety policy and a framework the group to ensure their continued IN RELATION TO THE FINANCIAL employment, either in the same or an for health and safety.
Each divisional STATEMENTS board is responsible for the issue and alternative position, with appropriate The following statement, which retraining being given if necessary.
implementation of its own health and should be read in conjunction with the safety policy in order to comply with independent auditor report on pages SUPPLIER POLICY STATEMENT the divisions day-to-day responsibility 156 and 157, is made to distinguish for The company agrees terms and for health and safety.
Health and safety shareholders the respective responsibilities conditions for its business transactions is considered regularly at divisional of the directors and of the auditor in with suppliers and payment is made in board meetings and each divisional relation to the financial statements.
accordance with these, subject to the board produces a formal written report terms and conditions being met by The directors are responsible for on compliance with the group-wide the supplier.
preparing the annual report, the health and safety policy and framework directors remuneration report and which is reviewed annually by the board The company acts as a holding company the financial statements in accordance and had no trade creditors at 31December at its meeting in February.
with applicable law and regulations.
The average An annual audit of the health and safety number of days credit taken by the group The Companies Act 2006 requires the policies established by CCD, in particular during the year was 11 days 2011: 13 days.
directors to prepare financial statements those relating to agent safety, is carried The group agreed to comply with the for each financial year.
Under this Act, out by the companys insurer, AIG.
The Prompt Payment Code during 2012. the directors have prepared the group results of the 2012 audit indicated that and company financial statements in there continued to be an excellent FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS accordance with International Financial understanding of company expectations, Details of the financial risk management Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted rules and procedures in relation to objectives and policies of the group and by the European Union.
Under this Act, health and safety throughout CCD, with the exposure of the group to credit risk, the directors must not approve the communication and training on health liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign financial statements unless they are and safety matters working effectively.
exchange rate risk are included on pages satisfied that they give a true and fair The majority of the recommendations 115 to 117 of the financial statements.
view of the state of affairs of the group made as a result of the audit in 2011 APPOINTMENT AND and company and of the profit or loss were implemented in 2012 and further REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS of the group for that period.
recommendations to enhance the Rules about the appointment and current processes following the 2012 In preparing these financial statements, replacement of directors are set out audit will be implemented during the the directors are required to: in the articles of association and on page course of 2013.
In addition, an audit 68 of this report.
The directors powers 1 select suitable accounting policies of the head office building in Bradford are conferred on them by UK legislation and and then apply them consistently: was carried out by AIG in 2012 which by the companys articles of association.
2 make judgements and accounting confirmed that there was a high standard Changes to the articles of association estimates that are reasonable and of health and safety within head office.
must be approved by shareholders prudent: 3 state that the financial Recommendations made by AIG will passing a special resolution and must statements comply with IFRS as adopted be implemented during 2013. comply with the provisions of the by the European Union, subject to any Companies Act 2006 and the FSAs material departures disclosed and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
explained in the financial statements: and 4 prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
84 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 GOVERNANCE The directors are also required by the ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION AUDITOR Following the introduction of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Deloitte LLP, the auditor for the Rules to include a management report Bribery Act in July 2011, the risk advisory company, was appointed on 29June committee reviewed the groups approach containing a fair review of the business 2012 and a resolution proposing the of the group and the company and a to bribery and corruption.
The corporate appointment will be proposed at policies manual was updated and a description of the principal risks and the forthcoming AGM.
uncertainties facing the group corporate hospitality register established ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING using a risk-based approach.
The AGM will be held at 11.30am on risk assessment confirmed that as a The directors are responsible for keeping 9May 2013 at the offices of Provident Business to Consumer B2C organisation proper accounting records that are Financial plc, No.
1 Godwin Street, the risks for the group arising from the sufficient to show and explain the Bradford, West Yorkshire BD1 2SU.
All business units companys transactions and disclose The Notice of Meeting, together with an are, however, required to undergo with reasonable accuracy at any time explanation of the items of business, will appropriate training and instruction the financial position of the company be contained in a circular to shareholders to ensure that they have effective antiand group and enable them to ensure to be dated 2April 2013. bribery and corruption policies and that the financial statements and the procedures in place.
Compliance will be directors remuneration report comply regularly monitored by the risk advisory with the Companies Act 2006 and, as Approved by the board on 26February committee and will be subject to periodic regards the group financial statements, 2013 and signed by order of the board.
review by the internal audit function.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are Kenneth J Mullen also responsible for safeguarding the WHISTLEBLOWING General Counsel and assets of the company and the group The group has a system by which Company Secretary and hence taking reasonable steps for staff may, in confidence, raise concerns the prevention and detection of about possible wrongdoing in financial fraud and other irregularities.
During 2012 the system was operational throughout The Annual Report and Financial the group.
Procedures are in place to Statements 2012 will be published on ensure issues raised are addressed in the companys website in addition to the a confidential manner.
The Company normal paper version.
The directors are Secretary is required to report to the responsible for the maintenance and audit committee in December on the integrity of the companys website.
integrity of these procedures, the Legislation in the United Kingdom state of ongoing investigations and governing the preparation and conclusions reached.
During 2012, dissemination of financial statements group employees used this system may differ from legislation in other to raise concerns about seven issues, jurisdictions.
all of which were appropriately DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY responded to through the groups RULES DTR STATEMENT human resources function.
Each of the directors, whose names and DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION functions are set out on page 81, confirms TO AUDITOR that, to the best of his her knowledge, the In accordance with section 418 of the group financial statements, prepared in Companies Act 2006, each person who accordance with IFRS as adopted by the is a director at the date of this report EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, confirms that: liabilities, financial position and profit of the group and company, and that the 1 So far as he she is aware, there is no directors report contained in this Annual relevant audit information of which Report and Financial Statements 2012 the companys auditor is unaware: includes a fair review of the development and and performance of the business and 2 He she has taken all steps that ought the position of the company and group, to have been taken as a director in together with a description of the principal order to make himself herself aware risks and uncertainties it faces.
of any relevant audit information The directors report is the management and to establish that the companys report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
5R auditor is aware of that information.
